senator brett alabama is recognized. thank you, mr. chairman. chairman powell, it is great to have you here today. over the past two years, we have seen the highest inflation of my lifetime, driving up cost for american families across the board. according to the us department of labor, the annual inflation rate in 2021 was 7%. and in 2022, it was 6.5%. according to the us department of agriculture, the cost of food went up 10% in 2022. and the real effects of that is moms and dads across this nation that are working to put food on the table for their kids, for their babies, had a harder time doing that. this has devastated hardworking americans causing a kitchen table crisis in every corner of our country. as the price of food, energy, and housing have all skyrocketed. in response, the federal reserve has raised the federal reserve fund rate more than four percentage points. being far from transient, inflation has remained persistent. high and well above the fed's long run goal of remaining under 2%. in the coming year, what factors and indicators are you paying attention to as you and the federal open market committee decide on whether to increase rates? so i would say a couple of things to that. first, we are going to be looking at inflation in the three sectors that i mentioned, the good sector, the housing sector, and then the broader service sector. and we need the inflation that is already underway in the good sector to continue. and that is really important. in the housing sector, we just need the time to pass so that that reported inflation comes down. and it is effectively in the pipeline, as long as new leases are being signed at relatively small increases. so we will be watching very, very carefully, though, at the larger service sector, which is 56% of the consumer spending and more than that of what is currently inflation. so that is one thing we will be watching that very carefully. also, we raised rates very quickly last year. and we know that monetary policy, tightening policy, has delayed effects. it takes a while for the full effects to be seen in economic activity and inflation. so we are watching carefully to see those effects come into play. and we are aware that we have not seen the full effect yet, and we are taking that into account as we think about rate hikes. so when you are looking at this, obviously not to get into a policy discussion, but if there were an increase of energy production in this country, do you feel like that would help drive down inflation? well, i think over time, more energy would mean lower energy prices. but we were very focused on what we call core inflation, because that is what is driven by demand. and our tools are really aimed at demand. right, understood. but i feel like the cost of energy is not just what you pay at the pump. but it ends up affecting every good across this great nation. additionally, i would like to ask you about labor participation. so when you look at the unemployment rate, and we have heard my colleagues discuss people having to be displaced in order for us to maybe get to the inflation rate that we would like as a nation, i would like to focus on the labor participation rate. so right now, it is 62.4%. if there were an increase in people coming back into the workforce, would that be a positive factor with regards to driving us down to the 2% rate that you would want to achieve? i think that it would. i mean, remember those people coming into jobs, that would be great, because the economy clearly wants more people than are currently working. of course, those people would then spend more. so it would not be a zero-sum game. but it would be great for the country, and great for them if they were to come into labor force. amen. i believe that increasing in capital requirements on financial institutions would have a chilling effect on the economy and the availability of financial services. and last week, i joined many of my colleagues in sending you a letter that expressed concerns that if the federal reserve decides to conduct a, quote, holistic review of capital standards as we heard senator scott talk about earlier. so is the federal reserve concerned that the impact to the economy of increasing capital requirements on financial institutions at a time when inflation remains persistently high would cause an issue? so i think it is always a balance. we know that higher capital makes banks safer and sounder. we also know that you will, at the margin, provide less credit, the more capital you have to have. so but i think it is never exactly clear that you are at the perfect equilibrium. and it is a fair question, i think, to look at that. and i know out of respect for the chairman and trying to stay in my time, i will just end by saying, i heard what you said, obviously, as you have said, the federal reserve is not and will not be a climate policy maker. i just want to thank you for your public statement on that. i agree with you that there is a difference between policymakers and financial regulators and certainly look forward to working with you in the future. thanks, senator.