senior senator now will be senator tommy tuberville and the junior senator will be senator-elect katie britt. again, the first woman ever elected to the u.s. senate from our state and the third woman from our state to actually serve. two others were appointed to fill out remaining terms after retirement's reportments, etc. so katie britt tonight in montgomery, celebrating a historic win for herself and for her family certainly and in many ways though, carrying the baton on for the senior senator, she had worked so faithfully for for so many years in washington, senator richard shelby, who by the way made no secret of his desire to see britt win this race both in the primary and certainly in the general election using some of the campaign funds he had collected to support her through many different endeavors including pacs and her campaign as well. so, gamer, we are waiting to hear from katie britt tonight. in montgomery, we expect to see her take the stage here any moment now and talk about her win. that is your husband, wesley britt, the former alabama football player there, ready to introduce her. looks like we are going to get a couple of pictures of the two of them as they begin to raise their family. again, the parents of two children, a daughter and a son who we saw voting with them today in montgomery and has been on the campaign trail with the britt campaign for most of the spring again a very contentious primary one that went down to the wire in some ways. but then of course one that sort of blossomed into not bell that much drama to be completely frank with you in the general election. again, we will boy from hoover tonight, the pastor, the former democratic nominee for lieutenant governor and for another senate campaign will again come up short, o for three now and statewide campaigns for the democratic nominee who we saw voting in hoover earlier tonight. our christian rupert is at his headquarters where the board campaign obviously disappointed with this results and especially so quickly the ap was ready to call this race for katie britt who again will be the next senator from the state of alabama. and again, who will she be joining in washington? will it be senator walker from georgia? she joins as another fellow freshman. will it be senator oz from pennsylvania? could be an interesting incoming freshman class of republican senators. they are depending upon how some of those key swing states fall tonight. and interesting to look at some of the margins as we look at the big as we get the hard numbers tonight and that will be what is perhaps at most interest as voter turnout expected in our state to be relatively light secretary of state john merrill said perhaps 45% was what they were anticipating so not even half of the registered voters turning out tonight if that prediction holds true. but there has been a lot of interest next door in georgia again where you have a governor's race that was pretty heated between kemp and abrams and it looks like governor kemp will have another term there. but also in that senate race between herschel walker and the incumbent governor and reverend rafael warnoch and a very tight race that many folks expect to go to a runoff. georgia much like our state has runoff elections but in general elections as well. somebody has to get to 50% plus one. there is a libertarian candidate there in georgia which could push this thing to a 30 day runoff much like you saw in the off-soft race back about two years ago in 2020 with senator oz off one full term there. so lots to yet be decided tonight across the country and certainly that will affect you at home in terms of the governance of the entire country. in our state it looks like it is pretty easy to say it will be governor iv for another term katie britt in the senate have not had calls on some of the other constitutional races like the lieutenant offices like the lieutenant governor's race, attorney general's race and then those constitutional amendments ten of them on the ballot tonight that have a lot of say over what happens to you specifically a nia's laws. and of course we are watching here closely named for a nia blanchard the home would native the auburn student kidnapped and killed back in 2019 by man who was already out on bond and charged with aggravated violent offenses in other cases. so a nia's law would allow judges to have more leeway in deciding whether to deny bond for some offenders accused of violent crimes. that is certainly a moment we are watching closely tonight. there is a couple of amendments dealing with sewer systems in shelby county and in lake view putting them under the control of the public service commission one of those sewer systems, tannenhulsu are just filed for bankruptcy earlier last month after they lost a court battle that would order them to pay millions of dollars to some other customers. that could be of interest to some of your neighbors. also a amendment on the ballot that would change the state's election laws or really more accurately prevent changes to the state's election laws anytime within six months of an election. that is a constitutional amendment on the ballot tonight. everyone has to do with paying for projects right now. a lot of counties and cities are half to borrow money to pay for construction projects the way that the constitution and state law set up. this would allow them if they collect enough money through taxes from you to pay for those projects as they go. they call it pago. that is another amendment. so a lot of things on the ballot tonight in coleman county. how do they select the superintendent for coleman county schools? that issue is on the ballot whether it is appointed or elected. we will wait and see again. so lots to yet be determined tonight, even though two of the marquee statewide races have been called that for senate and katie britt who we expect to hear from and just a moment and also for governor ivy who was just as we said in the last 15 minutes or so, spoken to our supporters and thank them for their support. let us listen into westlake britt now. except ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor and privilege to welcome united states senator zach. they want to give us a little notice. lori, max, current the border. some of the things she has talked about in her campaign, we will expect to hear about it that in her victory speech. you all, we did it. oh my gosh, this is incredible. first, i can get my hair out of my face. i would like to thank my lord and savior, jesus christ. yes, you all, without him none of this, and i mean none of it is possible. second corinthians 129 says, as he said unto me, my grace is sufficient for thee. my strength is made perfect in weakness. and over the last 18 months, as many of you have gotten to witness, there is been a lot of ups and downs. and here's no doubt that we got through this because of his strength. that is what carried us through. and you all, thank you, alabama. oh my gosh, from the shoals to the shores, to the gulf coast, to the rocket city, to the wiregrass, and everywhere in between, you all gave me a shot. you gave me a shot to earn your respect and your vote. you allowed me to listen to you, to hear your story, to learn your concerns, to learn your dreams, and what you hoped the future to be. you are what make this state so special. and you are who i am so proud to be able to represent. thank you. thank you. thank you. you all tonight is a night of a lot of firsts. it is going to be the first time you hear a lot of kids pop in balloons. it is just a little theater here that we are going to do. but really, you all, you are going to see headlines about me being the first woman ever elected to the united states senate from the state of alabama. oh my gosh. thank you, guys. thank you. you will hear that i may be the youngest republican woman in history elected to the us senate. oh my gosh. oh my gosh. or maybe that i am the only republican female with school-aged children in the senate. you all, these are all kinds of firsts. now, i do not take any of these things for granted. and the gravity of all of it is not lost on me. i am humbled. i am honored and grateful. i want you to know, i understand, what a tremendous responsibility these milestones carry. and i do not take that lightly. but the one that matters the most to me is the first that we started this campaign with. it was our motto from the start, alabama first. woo! oh my gosh. yo, i am here tonight to tell you that was not a campaign slogan. it was a promise. and it is going to be my mission every day as your united states senator. like you, i truly believe that we live in a great state with great people. and i believe that our best days are still ahead. yes, come on, guys. woo! and in order to achieve our full potential, we are going to need local, state, and federal leaders working together. we must seize the opportunity in front of us and face our challenges head on. that is how you make alabama first. and we do it together. woo! woo! this celebration is another first on our journeys. and i believe it is much more of a beginning. i am confident that this night will serve as first of many milestones we achieve together to better our state and our nation for generations to come. woo! woo! woo! but this victory is not mine. it is ours. it is our children's and theirs. your future was on the ballot. their future was on the ballot. and tonight, parents, families, and hard working at alabama and across this entire state let their voices be heard. we said loud and clear, this is our time. woo! woo! so 2022 is the year of the parent. we want our children to live in safe and strong communities. we want our children to be educated and not indoctrinated. and we want alabama to be a place where our children want to raise their children long into the future. and there is no doubt that here in alabama and across our nation that parents have gotten off the sidelines and stepped up to fight for what we believe in. because like wesley and i, when we prayed about this race and prayed about it, we have a new generation that is looking around and we do not recognize the country. we know and love, even though we did not grow up too long ago. we are hungry for change. but we also know we have to be the change that we want to see. and that is my commitment to you. woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! you all, we have far too many politicians in washington that only want to gripe about things and do nothing to actually solve the problems. what i want you to hear from me tonight is that i want to be part of the solution. it is not lost on me that that is likely well, alabama is sending a mama to the us senate to actually get things done. woo! so i am a mama on a mission and i am going to the senate with some novel concepts to make common sense, common, again, to implement solutions to achieve real positive results and to make our great state and nation stronger for our children and our grandchildren. woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! i am not going to sugarcoat it. it is not going to be easy, but i will remind you the words that got us into this race. god calls us to do hard things, right? and in the valleys of life to the peaks and everywhere in between, i am going to fight tirelessly in the senate for our people, our values, and our liberties. i am going to defend faith, family, freedom, and opportunity at every single turn. i am going to tackle challenges head on. i am going to look at the things staring us in the face, whether it is inflation or crime, the border crisis, the opioid epidemic, the making sure that we expand mental health and that people have access to high-speed internet. i am going to support peace through strength, ensuring our incredible men and women and uniform are the best equipped, resourced, and trained in the world. woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! i am going to ensure that our veterans get america's best because there is no doubt they gave us theirs, right? woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! i am going to respect and back our courageous law enforcement officers who sacrifice every single day to keep our communities and our families safe. i am going to be a champion for hard-working farmers, because i believe that food security is national security, right? woo! woo! woo! woo! and i am always going to fight for our children. goal, i believe with all of my heart that every single child, regardless of their zip code, deserves an opportunity for the american dream. and i will never stop working until that is a reality. it all starts with high quality education. we must empower and partner with parents and families not lock them out, because as local communities and states and as a nation's families determine our future, children succeed the most when their families are active participants in their education. and we need to celebrate and courage and enable that. we need to keep getting more and more people engaged in our country's future, whether it is attending local school board meetings, volunteering in your community or running for the united states senate. we need you. woo! and speaking of, there are so many people who are here tonight and many who could not be here that i need to thank. me being up here on this stage is because of a lot of people doing a lot of things, not only over the last 18 months to two years, but for years and years before that. to my husband, who put it all on the line literally to walk through this journey with me every single day. woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! he is the leader of our family, and he believed in what was possible. two-hour children. i love you. woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! who not only encouraged me to enter this race, but who have conducted themselves with grace and grit over the last 18 months, you all, i want you to know your dad and i believe you both to be incredibly special. and we could not be more proud of the young woman and young man that you both are. thank you. woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! to my parents, who taught me important life lessons and encouraged me through good times and challenging ones, who taught me that the most important things in life are faith, family, and freedom, you helped build the foundation that i am standing on today. i love you. to my sisters, who god blessed me with, to be able to do life with and who stood in there with me all the way through, to my grandparents, the ones here on earth and the ones watching from above who planted trees, who shea, they knew they would never have the opportunity to sit in, to my aunts, to my uncles, to my cousins, to my in-laws, to my friends from childhood, all the way up to adulthood and everything in between. to my, here you all, i like it. to my co-workers from my first job outside my dad's store, which was kid's corner, i went in at 10 and told him i needed a job, that my dad was paying me 50 cents an hour and i felt like i was worth more. to my colleagues at butler snow, to the volunteers on this campaign who spread the word and truly helped me build out authentic grass roots, you all give it up for them. to my team, who is the best, many of whom took this job in spite of people telling them that it would be career ending, no kidding. and who put their heart and soul into this campaign each and every day to ensure that we would have the very best chance of success. and to the man, senator richard shelby, and his wonderful wife, dr. annette shelby. who seek, i will fill, but who shoes will likely never fit. who gave me a shot 20 years ago, who was alabama's greatest statesman, and who has left a legacy, a lasting one, of fighting for this nation, and an imprint on this state that will always remain. and to every person in this room and at home who gave of their time resources and energy to make this possible tonight, i say thank you. i know without each one of you, i would not be who i am or where i am. i want you to hear me say it again from the bottom of my heart with every ounce of me. thank you. i conclude with this. no one will work harder than me in the united states senate. i am going to listen to you, not lecture you. i know that every one of you is not going to agree with me on every single issue, and that is okay. i am going to be working for all alabamaians, even those who have different beliefs than i do. i am going to be a voice for parents and families and hard working alabamaians across the state, and i am going to work tirelessly every single day to make alabama proud. i believe that our campaign has proved that the american dream is still alive. in this great state and this country, you can achieve more if you just set your mind to it. now to the young people out there, you are actually why every single one of us is standing in this room. you are not only our future, but you are also our hope for a better today. we want to invest in you. we want to create better pathways for you. we want to make sure there are conditions that with your own hard work will allow you to stand taller. i want you to learn from this moment. the one where a public schoolgirl from the wire graphs who was pulling at 2%, went on to become the first woman ever elected to the united states senate from the state of alabama. you are not just witnessing history. you are part of it. i want to remember that while the world places limitations on us, it is the limitations we place on ourselves that undoubtedly do the most damage. so set big goals, but pay attention to the little things. handle yourself with dignity, treat people with respect, encourage others to succeed while working hard yourself. when you fall down and you will, because i sure have, get back up. no matter what challenges life sends you away, there will be big ones. never, ever, ever count yourself out. got it? i believe with hard work, resiliency, faith and the support of wonderful people, we all, alabama can reach our full potential. and so to the adults in the room, let us ensure that alabama is the best place to live, work, worship and raise a family, not only for ourselves, but for all of them. you all hope is on the horizon. let us restore the shining city on a hill. our country was not so long ago. we must lay a foundation that ensures that all children across our state and nation have the freedoms and opportunities to do really incredible things. our state, our nation, our children, they are worth fighting for. so alabama, let us do this. and there is senator. and there is senator katie brett, senator elect katie, but we should say perhaps most accurately in her first comments tonight since doing what the polls all indicated was most likely winning a historic election tonight. she is, as she mentioned a couple of firsts, she listed those in that speech just a few moments ago. she is the first woman elected to the us senate from alabama, again the third to actually serve in the senate. she also says she is the youngest republican woman ever elected to the us senate and will be the only gop senator with school aged children. you heard that on the reality in theme. a lot of what she talked about there was her family as you saw them right behind her husband and her two children and also families across alabama. that is who she says she perhaps relates best to and understands most is the folks who have kids of her age that are in this stage of life, kids in school. she said parents across the state got off the sidelines and she said to get involved in their country and their government this year. she says that is one of the reasons she believes she carried on to what appears to be a very convincing victory tonight. again, waiting for those members to all be counted but the associate impressed comfortable enough to call her the winner. very early on tonight, we have now heard from her and from governor ivy as well. we heard governor ivy talking to her supporters in the government just a few moments before we heard from the senator-elect britt. i believe we have governor ivy's comments. that is listen-