oct 10, 2025 | government spending , press releases , supporting our troops washington, d.c. — senator ted budd (r-n.c.), a member of the senate armed services committee (sasc), voted to pass the senate version of the fiscal year (fy) 2026 national defense authorization act (ndaa) last night. the bill includes numerous provisions to improve readiness and quality of life for our troops, increase funding for north carolina military installations, protect the homeland, and strengthen alliances abroad. senator budd said in a statement upon final passage: “north carolina has long stood at the forefront of america’s military strength, and i was proud to deliver key victories for our state and our nation in the fy 2026 ndaa that will further empower our servicemembers and strengthen our forces both at home and abroad. last night, the senate passed this historic defense package that enhances military facilities, reinforces air superiority, cuts burdensome regulations, combats terrorism, and ends discriminatory affirmative action policies at our service academies. america’s strength rests on the unmatched lethality of its armed forces, and this year’s ndaa reaffirms that commitment by advancing our military’s readiness to confront any threat and its resolve to defend the cause of freedom against any adversary.” provisions within the senate’s fy26 ndaa must be reconciled with the house of representatives’ version of the bill, and be passed by both chambers, before receiving the president’s signature to become law. senator budd will continue to fight for these provisions throughout the legislative and appropriations process. below is a summary of provisions senator budd championed that were passed by the senate: on the senate floor last night, 55 amendments were included and passed in the final package of the fy26 ndaa, including senator budd’s bipartisan seized iranian arms transfer authorization (seize) act . the amendment streamlines the process for taking ownership over confiscated iranian weapons seized in transit to terror proxies like the houthi’s in yemen. senator budd’s amendment bypasses a potential year-long legal process for the distribution of captured iranian weapons and equipment held by u.s. central command, allowing it to be sent to u.s. military partners around the globe. additionally, the bipartisan comprehensive operations for unmanned-system neutralization and threat elimination response (counter) act , of which senator budd is an original co-sponsor, also passed the senate as an amendment to the fy26 ndaa. the amendment enhances airspace security at military installations. boosting america’s military readiness & supporting military families this year’s ndaa represents an investment in america’s military personnel, a refocusing of the pentagon’s priorities to boost troop readiness, and a needed reduction of bureaucratic red tape. senator budd championed a number of key priorities that will improve the quality of life and the effectiveness of our troops by: providing a 3.8% raise across the board for service members. creating a pilot program to improve basic allowance for housing (bah) rates for north carolina service members and their families. prohibiting affirmative action in u.s. service academies admissions. cutting burdensome environmental regulations that prohibit the defense department from procuring basic items. accelerating the development, prototyping, and deployment of mobile nuclear microreactor systems to enhance energy resilience and forward-deployed power capability for u.s. military operations. delivering for north carolina military installations & manufacturers the fy 2026 ndaa authorizes more than $700 million for military construction projects and planning and design funding at facilities across north carolina. senator budd successfully worked to include authorizing provisions to support the following facilities, programs, and units: marine corps air station cherry point authorizing $40m in funding to boost the f-35 aircraft sustainment center authorizing $15m in funding to design the next phase of the flightline utilities modernization project marine corps base camp lejeune authorizing $34m in funding for the expansion of the special operations forces combat service support/motor transport authorizing $90m in funding to boost the special operations forces marine raider battalion operations facility authorizing $48.28m in funding to boost amphibious combat vehicle shelters fort bragg authorizing $19m in funding to boost the automated infantry platoon battle course authorizing $24m in funding to complete the construction of the aircraft maintenance hangar authorizing $80m in funding to improve the fort’s power generation and microgrid authorizing $32m in funding for the special operations forces mission command center authorizing $80m in funding to boost the special operations forces operational ammunition supply point authorizing $5m in funding for the pathfinder airborne program to improve soldier readiness seymour johnson air force base authorizing $54m in funding to improve the child development center authorizing $41m in funding to boost the combat arms training and maintenance complex north carolina national guard authorizing $69m in funding for the aircraft maintenance hangar addition/alteration project at salisbury training center north carolina manufacturers & projects authorizing $34m in funding to procure infantry squad vehicles manufactured in concord, which will support the army transformation initiative authorizing $4m in funding to procure rare earth magnets manufactured in durham authorizing $8m in funding to procure army load-carrying technology advancements built in concord authorizing $5m in funding to expand the defense innovation unit onramp hub, which senator budd has advocated for bringing to north carolina protecting our homeland & standing with our allies the core mission of america’s armed forces is to protect the united states and its citizens from threats and to defend our interests both at home and abroad. sen. budd led the inclusion of several key priorities that will help our troops and our allies carry out this vital mission by: protecting our homeland: requiring a plan to ensure installation commanders have adequate guidance and authority to interdict hostile or suspicious drone activity with force immediately. directing the secretary of the army to diversify and expand the army’s counter-drone capabilities to protect bases and installations at home and abroad. deterring threats from china: cutting bureaucratic red tape to permit fighter aircraft to use tactical datalinks needed for advanced air combat training, enhancing the preparation and readiness of 45 combat-coded fighter squadrons for high-end conflict. directing a report on the people’s republic of china’s (prc) operation, ownership, or control of strategic foreign ports and department of defense efforts to counter or mitigate the national security threats posed by prc control of such foreign ports. supporting the u.s.-israel bilateral relationship & countering terrorism in the middle east: authorizing $80m in funding for u.s.-israel anti-tunnel cooperation and extending the program through december 2028. authorizing $75m in funding for u.s.-israel counter-uas cooperation and extending the program through december 2028. authorizing $15m in funding for us-israel joint research & development on emerging technologies. extending the authorization to provide assistance to counter the islamic state of iraq and syria (isis). directing dod to provide a briefing on the counter-isis train and equip fund, status of equipment delivery to kurdish peshmerga forces, and plans to improve the kurdish peshmerga forces’ ability to conduct counter terrorism operations. ### signup for newsletter updates sign up today latest news new budd bill would hold mamdani, municipalities accountable following threats to enforce international criminal court arrest warrants nov 24, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) recently introduced the american allies protection... read more senators budd, coons lead bicameral, bipartisan push to reinvest in domestic biopharmaceutical manufacturing nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senators ted budd (r-n.c.) and chris coons (d-del.) introduced the bicameral,... read more senator budd leads colleagues in effort to ban terrorist sympathizers from the united states nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) introduced the terrorist inadmissibility codification... read more read more news