sep 19, 2025 | national security , press releases washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) and senator catherine cortez masto (d-nev.) introduced the bipartisan china military powers transparency act to extend and update the department of defense’s (dod) annual report on military and security developments involving the people’s republic of china (“china military power report”) to monitor china’s military strength and strategic influence. under this legislation, the requirement to submit the report to congress would be extended from 2027 to 2030 and expand the required analysis. “the people’s republic of china has proven time and time again that its communist government cannot be trusted. as china continues to expand its influence abroad, the national security of the homeland must remain a top priority to counter its strategic influence. i am glad to join senator cortez masto to introduce legislation that will ensure the u.s. monitors potential threats by closely tracking and assessing china’s military posture,” said senator budd. “in this critical moment, the united states must stay informed on communist china’s potential future capabilities – military and otherwise,” said senator cortez masto. “by expanding this report to include the ccp’s potential expansion into new and emerging technologies like cyber and biotech, we are making sure that we are ready for whatever comes next.” read the full bill text here . background in addition to extending the report, the china military power transparency act would require dod to include the following security assessments as china accelerates investments across various industries: an analysis of china’s nuclear and drone development cooperation with other foreign adversaries. information on chinese foreign farmland acquisitions. an analysis of the likely role of chinese cyber capabilities in a potential conflict with the u.s. an analysis of china’s development of advanced and emerging technologies, including biotechnologies. a detailed assessment of the people’s liberation army’s strategic intent regarding taiwan, including potential scenarios such as a cyber-enabled economic warfare campaign, a cross-strait invasion, or a blockade. ### signup for newsletter updates sign up today latest news new budd bill would hold mamdani, municipalities accountable following threats to enforce international criminal court arrest warrants nov 24, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) recently introduced the american allies protection... read more senators budd, coons lead bicameral, bipartisan push to reinvest in domestic biopharmaceutical manufacturing nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senators ted budd (r-n.c.) and chris coons (d-del.) introduced the bicameral,... read more senator budd leads colleagues in effort to ban terrorist sympathizers from the united states nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) introduced the terrorist inadmissibility codification... read more read more news