sep 24, 2025 | disaster recovery , news , press releases washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) today applauded secretary of transportation sean duffy and federal highway administrator sean mcmaster’s announcement of over $1.1 billion in federal relief grants to fund natural disaster recovery projects in north carolina following hurricane helene and other storms dating back to 2020. these funds will support projects to repair roads, bridges, and drainage structures that have suffered significant damage due to flash flooding, landslides, heavy rainfall, tornadoes, rockfall, washouts, pipe blowouts, bridge collapses, and downed trees. “i am grateful to secretary duffy and administrator mcmaster for their leadership in getting needed federal aid out the door and back to the state of north carolina as we work to repair our damaged infrastructure as a result of hurricane helene and other severe storms from the past several years. president trump’s department of transportation is following through on its promises and unlocking vital emergency relief to the old north state, including aid that has been tied up dating back to the biden administration,” said senator budd. background approved federal grant applications issued by the u.s. department of transportation include: hurricane helene $1,150,000,000 – federal highway administration (fhwa) emergency relief program grant restore damaged areas of the federal-aid highway system to its pre-disaster condition. $12,278,841 – fhwa emergency relief program grant repair public forest roads within national forests in north carolina damaged by heavy rainfall. $1,749,785 – fhwa emergency relief program grant repair drainage facilities at the w. kerr scott dam impacted by severe flooding. $90,000 – fhwa emergency relief program grant restore damages to bridges, bridge approaches, and multiple roads and trails on tribal lands of the eastern band of cherokee indians impacted by heavy rain and flash floods. hurricane debby $346,426 – fhwa emergency relief program grant restore roads and drainage structures that were damaged by flooding, erosion, and debris within national forests in north carolina. january 9, 2024 – rain storm $150,000 – fhwa emergency relief program grant repairs for roadway templates and drainage structures within national forests in north carolina. tropical storm fred $1,679,918 – fhwa emergency relief program grant repairs for transportation systems within national forests in north carolina. ### signup for newsletter updates sign up today latest news new budd bill would hold mamdani, municipalities accountable following threats to enforce international criminal court arrest warrants nov 24, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) recently introduced the american allies protection... read more senators budd, coons lead bicameral, bipartisan push to reinvest in domestic biopharmaceutical manufacturing nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senators ted budd (r-n.c.) and chris coons (d-del.) introduced the bicameral,... read more senator budd leads colleagues in effort to ban terrorist sympathizers from the united states nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) introduced the terrorist inadmissibility codification... read more read more news