jul 24, 2023 washington, d.c. — senator ted budd (r-nc) has joined a letter to major shipping companies regarding their policies discriminating against legal firearms and ammunition. recently, several large freight and shipping companies have implemented policies that discriminate against the firearm and ammunition industries, including prohibitions on shipments containing certain firearm parts to total bans on firearms and ammunition. the letter was led by senator mike crapo (r-id) and co-signed by a total of 14 senators. letter excerpts: “[dhl/xpo logistics/saia’s] policy is an affront to the second amendment and discriminates against the millions of law-abiding citizens, including many of our constituents, who utilize and value their constitutional right to keep and bear arms. your policy also discriminates against businesses engaged in the lawful commerce in firearms, ammunition and related products, including federal firearm licensees, who utilize your services to ship their products.” “when . . . freight carriers engage in policy making from the boardroom and implement discriminatory practices, they are interfering in the lawful commerce of firearms, limiting distribution and market access, resulting in fewer options and higher costs for businesses and consumers. but even more importantly, they are infringing on the constitutional right of law-abiding citizens to keep and bear arms enshrined in the second amendment.” a copy of the full letter to dhl can be found here , xpo logistics here and saia here . ### signup for newsletter updates sign up today latest news new budd bill would hold mamdani, municipalities accountable following threats to enforce international criminal court arrest warrants nov 24, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) recently introduced the american allies protection... read more senators budd, coons lead bicameral, bipartisan push to reinvest in domestic biopharmaceutical manufacturing nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senators ted budd (r-n.c.) and chris coons (d-del.) introduced the bicameral,... read more senator budd leads colleagues in effort to ban terrorist sympathizers from the united states nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) introduced the terrorist inadmissibility codification... read more read more news