oct 10, 2025 | healthcare , press releases washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) joined senator lindsey graham (r-s.c.)and 50 senate republicans in sending a letter to the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs) secretary, robert f. kennedy jr. and u.s. food and drug administration (fda) commissioner, dr. martin makary, urging them to review a recent decision to approve a generic version of mifepristone — currently the leading drug used to perform chemical abortions. mifepristone is not only a lethal drug for preborn babies but also poses a serious health risk for expectant mothers. given recent statements from hhs and fda acknowledging data discrepancies surrounding abortion pill safety and a commitment to review the science, the lawmakers argue that the biden-era decision to remove safeguards not only undermines women’s reproductive health but also disregards pro-life laws in states across the country. in the letter, the senator s wrote, “we commend your recent statements acknowledging the data discrepancies surrounding abortion pill safety and your commitment to reviewing the science. we are also encouraged by hhs’s recent announcement that it will review prior risk evaluation and mitigation strategies (rems) approvals given the recent studies raising concerns about the drug’s safety. given this commitment, however, we are deeply concerned about the fda’s approval of a new generic version of mifepristone. while we recognize the fda’s statutory responsibility in evaluating drug applications, the timing of this approval appears inconsistent with the comprehensive safety reassessment your agencies have prioritized. out of respect for this important review, and with full confidence in your dedication to protecting women’s health, states’ rights, and unborn life, we urge you to take decisive action to reevaluate whether this generic version of mifepristone is suitable to enter the market.” they continued, “unrestricted access to abortion pills is systematically undermining states’ rights and violating pro-life state laws. every month, thousands of abortion drugs are shipped into states that have otherwise limited access to abortion after dobbs, degrading pro-life laws at the state level across the country.” additional letter co-signers include u.s. senators jim banks (r-ind.), john barrasso (r-wyo.), marsha blackburn (r-tenn.), john boozman (r-ark.), katie britt (r-ala.), shelley moore capito (r-w.va.), bill cassidy (r-la.), john cornyn (r-texas), tom cotton (r-ark.), kevin cramer (r-n.d.), mike crapo (r-idaho), ted cruz (r-texas), john curtis (r-utah), steve daines (r-mont.), joni ernst (r-iowa), deb fischer (r-neb.), charles grassley (r-iowa), bill hagerty (r-tenn.), josh hawley (r-mo.), john hoeven (r-n.d.), jon husted (r-ohio), cindy hyde-smith (r-miss.), ron johnson (r-wis.), jim justice (r-w.va.), john kennedy (r-la.), james lankford (r-okla.), mike lee (r-utah), cynthia lummis (r-wyo.), roger marshall (r-kan.), mitch mcconnell (r-ky.), david mccormick (r-pa.), ashley moody (r-fla.), jerry moran (r-kan.), bernie moreno (r-ohio), markwayne mullin (r-okla.), rand paul (r-ky.), pete ricketts (r-neb.), james risch (r-idaho), mike rounds (r-s.d.), eric schmitt (r-mo.), rick scott (r-fla.), tim scott (r-s.c.), tim sheehy (r-mont.), dan sullivan (r-alaska), john thune (r-s.d.), thom tillis (r-n.c.), tommy tuberville (r-ala.), roger wicker (r-miss.), and todd young (r-ind.). read the full letter text here . ### signup for newsletter updates sign up today latest news new budd bill would hold mamdani, municipalities accountable following threats to enforce international criminal court arrest warrants nov 24, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) recently introduced the american allies protection... read more senators budd, coons lead bicameral, bipartisan push to reinvest in domestic biopharmaceutical manufacturing nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senators ted budd (r-n.c.) and chris coons (d-del.) introduced the bicameral,... read more senator budd leads colleagues in effort to ban terrorist sympathizers from the united states nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) introduced the terrorist inadmissibility codification... read more read more news