may 29, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) released the following statement after the u.s. department of the interior (doi) announced postponing full closures on the blue ridge parkway, between blowing rock and beacon heights, until 2026 to accommodate for community recovery efforts in western north carolina following hurricane helene. “communities in western north carolina were hit hard by hurricane helene, and as we begin to rebuild, closing the blue ridge parkway at this juncture would only set us back. the parkway serves as a lifeline to small businesses and recreation access across the appalachian region — bringing tourists, supporting local businesses, and keeping our economy moving. i’m grateful the trump administration recognized our state’s needs following a letter i sent last month. this is the right decision to prioritize the near-term recovery of our region while still ensuring the resurfacing project is completed in the future,” said senator budd. read the full text of the letter from the trump administration here . background in april 2025, senator budd was joined by senator thom tillis (r-n.c.) in sending a letter to the secretary of the interior, doug burgum, requesting doi to consider options to delay the resurfacing of the blue ridge parkway until after the peak 2025 recreation season. read the full text of the letter here . ### signup for newsletter updates sign up today latest news new budd bill would hold mamdani, municipalities accountable following threats to enforce international criminal court arrest warrants nov 24, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) recently introduced the american allies protection... read more senators budd, coons lead bicameral, bipartisan push to reinvest in domestic biopharmaceutical manufacturing nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senators ted budd (r-n.c.) and chris coons (d-del.) introduced the bicameral,... read more senator budd leads colleagues in effort to ban terrorist sympathizers from the united states nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) introduced the terrorist inadmissibility codification... read more read more news