oct 27, 2025 | foreign relations , press releases washington, d.c. — today, u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) introduced the combatting the persecution of religious groups in china act to strengthen america’s response to combat the chinese communist party’s (ccp) ongoing persecution of christians and other religious minorities. the legislation, filed on the 27th anniversary of international religious freedom day, would implement strict sanctions on any ccp official who is responsible for or directly carries out violations of religious freedom. senator budd was joined by congressman mark alford (r-mo.-04) who introduced the companion legislation in the house of representatives. “china’s disdain for religious freedom is not new. it is an ongoing and brutal pattern of abuse that must be met with steadfast american strength. as the leader of the free world, the united states must promote religious freedom around the world and hold china’s authoritarian regime responsible for decades of persecution targeting christians and other religious minorities. the ccp’s restrictions on freedom of religion and cruelty toward religious minorities in china must come to an end,” said senator budd. “the chinese communist party has perpetrated heinous abuses against religious groups for decades. it’s time the united states to stand up for religious freedom in china as we have in other parts of the world. i’m proud to co-lead the combatting the persecution of religious groups in china act with senator budd and our colleagues to take a stand, stop these abuses, and promote global religious freedom,” said congressman alford. “the chinese government has an abysmal human rights record and has persecuted its citizens for practicing their faith for far too long. as co-chair of the senate human rights caucus and a participant in the tom lantos human rights commission’s defending freedom project, i remain deeply committed to highlighting china’s ongoing persecution of religious leaders like pastor wang yi, who has been unjustly detained for the past seven years. the united states must continue to hold china accountable and ensure that its blatant disregard for religious freedom is considered in all future diplomatic and trade negotiations,” said senator tillis. “china’s systematic persecution of religious leaders who peacefully practice their faith is horrific and shameful. we must continue to strongly condemn this action by the chinese communist party and hold accountable those who perpetuate this reprehensible behavior,” said senator young. “communist china’s persecution of christians and religious minorities is a gross violation of human rights. the combating the persecution of religious groups in china act would hold chinese communist party officials accountable by imposing sanctions on those responsible for these abuses of religious freedom,” said senator blackburn. “the chinese communist party’s brutal persecution of people of faith cannot be ignored. i’m proud to cosponsor this bill to send a clear message that the united states will continue to promote religious freedom around the globe and fight to hold the ccp accountable for its human rights abuses,” said senator moody. senators thom tillis (r-n.c.), todd young (r-ind.), marsha blackburn (r-tenn.), ashley moody (r-fla.), and dan sullivan (r-alaska) co-sponsored the legislation. representatives greg steube (r-fla.-17), dan crenshaw (r-texas-02), and michael mccaul (r-texas-10) co-sponsored the companion legislation in the house of representatives. read the full bill text here . background read senator budd’s op-ed in the hill: china’s crackdown on religious freedom demands american sanctions the combatting the persecution of religious groups in china act would: impose sanctions on ccp officials who are responsible for or directly carrying out religious freedom abuse such as arbitrary imprisonment, forced labor, and broader restrictions on freedom of religion or belief. strengthens efforts to combat the ongoing persecution of protestant christians, catholics, muslims, buddhists, falun gong practitioners, and other religious minorities in the people’s republic of china (prc) within the department of state’s programs, including its bureau of east and pacific affairs. expresses the sense of congress that china should continue to be designated as a country of particular concern. ### signup for newsletter updates sign up today latest news new budd bill would hold mamdani, municipalities accountable following threats to enforce international criminal court arrest warrants nov 24, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) recently introduced the american allies protection... read more senators budd, coons lead bicameral, bipartisan push to reinvest in domestic biopharmaceutical manufacturing nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senators ted budd (r-n.c.) and chris coons (d-del.) introduced the bicameral,... read more senator budd leads colleagues in effort to ban terrorist sympathizers from the united states nov 20, 2025 washington, d.c. — u.s. senator ted budd (r-n.c.) introduced the terrorist inadmissibility codification... read more read more news