thank you global health technologies coalition for this recognition. the work that you do is so important in advancing policies that lead to the reach and development of life-saving drugs. you have been a champion for increased investment in global health and i am so proud to be a supporter of your efforts to advocate for continued leadership by the united states and provide life-saving resources to give people all over the world hope for a brighter future. as an optometrist i had the opportunity to help with i care in costa rica and places like haiti it was fulfilling to help patients there and see just how appreciative they were for the services that we provided. it continues to be rewarding to know that our investments are making a positive impact on the health needs of the global community. in 2003 under the leadership of president bush we launched the president's emergency plan for aids relief commonly referred to as pepfar. this initiative has led to millions of people receiving life-saving anti-retroviral drugs and sub-saharan africa and has been instrumental in decreasing malaria. as a founder and co-chairman of the congressional caucus on malaria and the connected tropical diseases i have worked with the governmental faith-based and private organizations to facilitate partnerships and reach populations impacted by tropical diseases. here in the united states we have successfully eradicated malaria. we have an obligation to show people how they can be protected from the devastating effects of the disease. while we can help treat and prevent those diseases we have cursed for it is just as important to invest in the development of new vaccines, drugs and diagnostics. the covid-19 emergency illustrates the importance of research and development in fighting deadly diseases. this outbreak demonstrates how globally connected we are and why helping solve health issues abroad also helps our own country. that is why research development is so so very important investing in tools to prevent and treat covid-19 and future health threats will support lives and economies here and globally. proactively investing in research and development will deliver innovations to combat emerging health challenges and build a safe and a healthier world. i have worked closely with the usaid administrators to ensure it receives the resources to support its mission to advance global health and provide individuals across the globe access to affordable treatments. usaid has been a reliable partner in identifying the needs of communities abroad. through partnerships with nonprofit and private sector organizations usaid has contributed to impressive health breakthroughs including anti-malarials and tools to combat malaria and other diseases. in addition to advancing global health and combating diseases usaid supports research and innovation to improve food production and in the cycle of hunger and poverty. a lack of adequate nutrition can harm the development of young children and lead to greater health issues as they grow up but we are in a good position to help with that. usaids feed the future initiative as help farmers protect their crops from pests and disease as well as scaled up evidence based food technology solutions such as micro nutrient supplements fortified foods and bio fortified nutrient rich staple food crops. with the agriculture supply chain disrupted by covid-19 it is more important now than ever that our international food assistance programs continue. we can be proud of our nation's leadership in advancing medical research and developing vaccines and treatments to improve the lives of people around the globe. i am proud to support funding for usaid and increase investments so we can help pave a path to a healthy future for people no matter where they live. thank you again so much for this on.