i can move on to wednesday, day, day, day, day, day, day. i am this good evening. i am like a move on to wednesday, day, day, day. thank you all. so good. thank you all. i was just helping out. i know we get as much applause as the girls when they came out. as you know, senator lincoln is called and very graciously. we had a very, very nice talk. and as you know, she is going to a great job in the transition period. senator lincoln had not, and i have not agreed on the issues many times. but we have always worked very closely when it comes to arkansas. and i really appreciate it. i am proud of her hard work and her love of the state. now, i want to thank my family. my mom is not with us here tonight. she is watching. she will have her 89th birthday on november the 5th. she is promised me that we will have a big birthday cake with extra roses on it, as i like. so i want to wish her, you know, the fact that we are thinking of her and how much i appreciate her. my wife kathy and the girls. and those of you. it is one thing to help the candidate. it is another thing to actually be the candidate. and running for office these days is very, very tough. and it is not only tough on the candidates, very tough on the families. i appreciate them with putting up with you. the other thing is i want to thank my congressional staff, many of them are here today. and they work very, very hard representing the people of arkansas for the last nine years. and a bunch of my success, in fact 99.9% of my success is being because of their hard work, their constituent service, both in arkansas and then also working so hard. they represent the people of arkansas in washington. i want to thank my campaign staff for all that they have done. i cannot go through everyone. all of you have been so grateful. those of you that have lent your homes to us, you have lent your finances to us, everything. and again, i am the guy that is up here. it is not about me. it is about getting a conservative voice for washington to represent us. and the reality is that we just could not have done this without this great team, this great army of people who have been so very, very helpful. i want to especially thank stanley reed and bill tonight, my two co-chairs who have sacrificed so much personal time. now, all along the campaign trail, stanley, as you know, is a former farm bureau president. bill tonight is the chief of gi at the medical center. so he is one of the big doctors over there. but he is been keeping the campaign record. i tell people, i am not tomatious by training. so hang around. i will give you some free-eyed advice. stanley, mr. greengeese, as he will give you free advice concerning your garden, your having troubles there. and bill, it is graciously consenting if you are having problems with your digestion to give you some pain. you know, as we have gone around the state, and i have been all around the state for the last year. and visiting with so many different people. and you have memories of different people that stand out in your mind. and i think one of my fondest memories ever, not only of this campaign, but ever, was being in fort dice. and i saw a young guy that came and he shook my hand and said, congressman, he said, you came to iraq to see me. and i wanted to come and see you when you came to fort dice. and he showed us a picture. you know, he had been in night, he was a truck driver. and the truck drivers in iraq and afghanistan are the ones that have suffered so much because that is where they plant the ids. and he showed us a picture of his truck that had been blown up and three of the guys in the truck had gotten purple hearts. i think about the men and women that were so concerned about protecting their social security. and again, all that that means, and being able to reassure them that we were going to continue to do that and make that said. i think of the men and women, many little elderly ladies and men that would come up to us and say, here's $20 for gas for your butts knowing that, again, that is $20 if they just did not have. so these are the people that i will think about as i go to washington that are counting on us. the people also, the small business people, who are so concerned about the economy right now. the average arkansas is concerned about having a job three, four months from now. these are the people that we will take to washington to represent. now when i was first elected, congressman hammersmith, call me. congressman hammersmith has become a dear friend and a great mentor. we cannot go any place in this state without somebody telling a story of how he helped them with a particular problem. he represented the third district, but he was a true public servant in every sense of the way. he called me and he said, john, always remember that, well, he is saying congratulations, john, you are the congressman now. but he said, always remember, there is not many democrats, there is not many republicans now. there is just the people of arkansas and you need to take care of them. and we worked really hard to do that. many of you in the room here, not be from the third district, have not been able to vote for me. but i have been voting for you for the last nine years and tried to represent you with the conservative voice that you expect in washington. my pledge is to represent you with that conservative voice in the senate as we go forward. thank you very much.