he has the possibility of getting the right to this. we have not only reelected a five united states senator in john bowman. we have not only reelected a five united states senator in john bowman. i am sorry. thank you all so much. truly an honor to be in this situation. i have got to thank my wife. she is got the first thing all. she is got the first thing all. she is got the first thing all. she and i started dating when i was six months ago. we have been together for a long long time and she is put up with an awful lot of charities. i have got my hours here and i have sent them all to us. my family has grown a little bit in my six years. i tell people you would not look at me and say i could have a pretty wife and three pretty daughters. but i did. so for you guys, for you guys, there is hope. for those of you that are a little bit older, all my daughters are off my payroll. that is a good thing. i want to thank my campaign manager, so much. chris has done truly a lot. so let me just take this second note. you are saying that it is a little bit more social or... kelsey, you are mad. will, joe, you are good with me. paul and i. good night. our campaign chair. tom molly. tom cherim. but again, he is going to be a tremendous job of putting into the great things. as important, the effect much more important. the reason that we are in the situation is my staff. you all need to be quiet because i am on the limit. okay. so again, i want to thank my staff so much. they worked so hard. i think we have had over 19,000 encounters. people coming to the office leading something done. but we were able to intervene and make a session. we were able to solve their problems. that is really what it is about. we understand that we want to use the power of the office for good. and it is more and more hard to do than i have ever seen with people in the market. so when i was growing up, the country was a very terrible. we had the assassination of john kennedy, martin luther king, bobby kennedy. much of the country is a power in our major cities. and yet people despy all of that going on. the country in turn will have faith in institutions. right now, we are in a situation where we are lost. our faith in our institutions. it would be the great country that we need to be. we simply have to get that back. that is going to take a lot of work. my dad, like most of your all, is dance and grandfather's, right now, there is some of your cases. we are up there in the impression we started working when he was nine. it worked really hard for my brother, my sister, nine, to make sure that we would have the american dream, the dream of us sitting better than he did in generations, for the first time in history. more people than not do not feel like that the american dream is going to be there and we are truly going to be able to make sure. again, that is something that we simply have to face. this is a mark elm. you see a water? i do not know what is going to happen to me tonight. it is so, so very close. but i do know that your elected leaders, once it is over, need to come together and find common ground to address the problems. and the problems that i have heard about so much is i have been christchurch the state, not just in the last year or so, but in the last six years. the problems of things like the ricketts river, the summer of businesses that are putting away blanket, and the cost of these jobs, health care costs. the average are kids and now the sea is screaming and going dramatically with back 10,000 dollars in the backpacks. we have got to come together and solve those problems. along with that national security, you see my family back here. i have got three daughters. i do anything in the world for them and my little granddaughters. i cannot protect them for rights. so again, we need to spend everything we need to do, whatever it takes, and all of it that get them done. let me close by, but i am talking just a second about a night just like this in 2001. i had the opportunity of men to become the third district congressman. as soon as the race was over, and back as soon as i got up even before this point, john paul hemerschman called him. john paul was made a civil law that just did a tremendous job. the call of he said, john, always remember that there is not any republicans now with nearly a count of them. there is just the people of arkansas you need to take care of all of them. so i watched him out of my pledge, because i returned to washington again to keep that in mind, and make it special to find some common ground and start solving them. right after that, i was given a challenge call. young soldiers, i was missing some of those kids challenging them. those are the little points that they give out in recognition of their youths. on the point, said, duty, honor and country, never falls or never quit. and i would add, trusting god to them, that is a great recipe. that is a great recipe. and again, that is what we need to look forward to if we can have those values, not just your congressman or the buses of nation. if we could adopt those values, get back to these basic principles, and again, the country would be a lot better off. and we would continue to be the greatest freeest country in the world. thank you very much. thank you. thank you. you gave all one, that is all been re-elected. it was shown earlier. you just as it got to speak. well, i was senator john bozeman speaking, just gave his victory speech. he has won re-elections. he is really has not won it yet.