and i want to thank you all for joining us today. the subcommittee will come to order. my name is brad onestrip and i am a veteran, a doctor and a congressman from the second district of ohio and member of the u.s. house of representatives committee on veterans affairs. and i am here today as the acting chairman of the subcommittee on health. and i am so grateful to be with you here today in southern california. actually my note says sunny california, but not what we have today. but that is okay. i am a company by your congresswoman and the ranking member on the subcommittee on health julia brownlee, my friend and colleague. as many of you know, congresswoman brownlee is a reliable advocate for veterans and their families and her focus on the committee has always been finding ways to improve the lives of veterans at home here in california and across the country. i am grateful to her for her hard work and for inviting me to be here with her this morning. for continuing, i would ask all the veterans in our audience today to please stand if you are able or raise your hand and be ready to go. thank you all so very much for serving and it is an honor to have you here today. we are here today to continue our mission of improving the department of veterans affairs health care system to ensure that you and all those that have fought, served and sacrificed for our country, receive the care that you have earned and deserve. as a veteran and a doctor, i understand firsthand the importance of providing timely and high quality care to our nation's heroes. as a congressman and members of this committee, i have seen time and time again where va has sometimes come short to provide such care to veterans and veterans. there is a lot of positives. we have a lot of great providers. people out there wanting to take care of our veterans. sometimes it is a system that fails us. so getting va health care on the right track requires us to use every available tool at our disposal to increase access to care. now one of those tools is telemedicine. telemedicine is the process of using telecommunications technology to remotely diagnose and treat patients and it has obvious advantage for veterans, particularly for those who are in rural or medically underserved areas or for those who have difficulty traveling to a va medical facility. for example, using telemedicine could allow a veteran at the oxygen community-based alpacine clinic, the seabock, to see a specialist at the west la va. medical center without having to fight traffic there and back. va reports to be a leader in the use of telemedicine and according to testimony, va will provide this morning that there were more than 2 million telemedicine visits across the va health care system last fiscal year alone. the commission on care recognizes that the va is excelling at telemedicine and recommends that they expand the use of it. as the use of telemedicine continues to expand, we need to be sure that va is keeping pays with modern technology and is effectively safeguarding private medical information through secure data channels. we also need to explore whether va is effectively tracking telemedicine appointments to ensure consistent quality care and monitoring patient outcomes. if va truly is the leader in deploying telemedicine, it is important to track the best practices, lessons learned, and the impact telemedicine is having both on individual patients and on the va health care system as a whole, as well as to ensure that this technology is being leveraged to address the critical issues va is facing today. for example, va touts telemedicine is an important way to increase access to care. that may be true, but one cannot help but notice that while the use of telemedicine has been increasing over the last several years, patient wait times have been increasing in some areas as well. why is that? more importantly, how can we better utilize telemedicine technology to improve the care and the experiences that are better in the city? i look forward to discussing these questions this morning, and i now recognize ranking member brownlee for her opening statement. thank you, mr. chairman. thank you, mr. chairman, and really thank you for joining us today and traveling here to ventura county for, i believe, an important hearing that is going to take place. i appreciate you coming all the way from your hometown since nadi, ohio, and i do welcome you to sunny camerillo because the sun will indeed come out. we are really, really happy to have you here. i want everyone in the audience to know that dr. winstrip is an extraordinary member of congress. we were elected together. he is an md, as he mentioned, but also has served in service as a medical doctor. he is an iraq veteran, and i think, like your district, my district is a district that is very rich because of its military families and veterans. i think we both represent very, very unique and districts because i think the fabric of our community is, as i said, very, very rich due to all the military families and veterans who live here. i want to thank our witnesses for joining us today to discuss this important issue as technology continues to improve. the possibilities for providing health care are also rapidly changing. many of these providers, many of them from california might add, are pushing the envelope on how we approach health care. one example of this is the growth of telemedicine telehealth. what does that really mean? dr. winstrip just defined what telehealth is and that health resources and services of administration defines it as the use of electronic information and telecommunications technologies to support long-distance clinical health, patient and professional health-related education, public health and health administration. these are innovative technologies and systems that can make health care more accessible across geographic locations. they can break down barriers between health care experts and patients who may be in different cities, different states or even the other side of the globe. today's hearing will focus on a use of telehealth within the va health care system. as we know, there is not a one-size-fits-all approach to providing health care to veterans. the va health care system serves nearly 9 million people, men and women with different needs and preferences about their health care. telehealth services are available for the va to make diagnoses, manage care, perform checkups for veterans who may have trouble accessing their local regional medical center, or for those who need an appointment with a specialty provider not available locally. in 2015, the va provided by far the most federal telehealth appointments with 2.1 million consultations to over 677,000 veterans. and the va expects the number of telehealth appointments to increase by over 12 percent in the coming year. i am looking forward to learning more about what the va is doing to give the program greater visibility and what benefits they anticipate from the use of these technologies. i am also interested in knowing how the va is getting the word out about the availability of telehealth at the remote clinics, how veterans are being notified that telehealth is an option and what strategies and technologies from the private sector the va can look at to promote telehealth. expanding telehealth appointments is especially important when we consider the ongoing provider shortage at the va and across the health care sector in general. secretary mcdonald has testified about the va provider shortage and the need to recruit doctors and other medical professionals to address this shortage. we also know that there is a provider shortage not just at the va but really throughout the nation. we should look at ways that telehealth can help mitigate this challenge and connect doctors and specialists with the patients who need them regardless of geographic location. again, i am looking forward to learning more about the va's approach to telehealth and how this approach fits together with the ultimate mission of providing quality and timely care to our veterans. here in ventura county, we struggle with a community clinic that is still too small to serve the needs of all of our veterans. although we are working diligently to address this problem, the va choice program does not adequately take into account driving time for veterans to access care. and as we all know, traveling the one-on-one to sompholvita or west los angeles warren appointment can take the better part or all of one's day. so it is particularly important to me that ventura county veterans have access to advanced technology like telehealth that will increase the quality and timeliness of their care that they have earned and deserved. thank you, mr. chairman and i yield back knowledge at my time. thank you very much. we are going to begin today's hearing with our panel of witnesses who are already seated at the table. and i am going to yield momentarily to congressman brownlee to introduce our witnesses. but first, i would like to thank them all for their presence and participation here this morning and for their service and for the work that they do for our veterans. i would also like to gently remind all of our today's witnesses to please be mindful of five-minute time limit for your oral testimony and question and answer period that will follow. the light has been placed in front of me and in front of you and changed from green to yellow when there was one minute left from yellow to red when the time has expired. so we are going to try and say it is close. we cannot do the five-minute time limit as possible so we can be sure that everyone has a chance to be heard and i want to thank you in advance for that consideration. now, ranking member brownlee, would you please introduce our panelists? i will indeed. thank you, mr. chairman. and again, thank you for coming to this great county for our hearing today. and i appreciate your travels coming here and looking forward to a great hearing. and i would like to welcome all of you here today and i am looking forward to discussing this important topic. we have a great panel of witnesses here with us who have graciously taken the time to share their perspectives on this topic. i would like to take a moment to briefly introduce our witnesses. joining us today from the va, our dr. kevin galpin, the chief consultant of vha telehealth services, he is responsible for overseeing the implementation and coordination telehealth technologies throughout the va. with him is dr. hartroth, chief of staff of the va greater los angeles healthcare system, and also joining us today is dr. herb rogog, the president and chief executive officer of c30 telemedicine, based here in antwery county. and last but not least, also is here is dr. zachary walker, a doctor. yes, exactly, what is dr. hartroth? mr. hartroth? how did they just say dr? oh, mr. zachary walker, a us navy veteran, most important title, and ventura county probation agency employee who will share his personal experience using telemedicine at our local va. so thank you all for being here and for audience members who are interested in sharing their comments or perspectives on telemedicine at the va. my staff will be available after the hearing. they will be happy to take down your contact information and let you know where you can submit written comments that we will then share with the veteran affairs committee back in washington. so thank you very much and i yield thank you. we will begin with mr. walker. i am sure you recognize for five minutes. good morning. thank you for the opportunity to give my testimony to my experience with telemedics. i am zachary walker, a veteran of the united states navy, 1975 to 79. my introduction to telemedicine was a president by my va, medical clinic, not as an option, but as a last resort. my journey began when i received a phone call from my local va clinic one day before my scheduled appointment that my appointment had been canceled. the clinic informed me that my healthcare provider was not available. i was told the next available appointment would be within two months. having already waited two months for appointment, i requested to see the next available healthcare provider. again, i was informed that the wait time would be two months because they were all booked. i took the next available appointment, now having to wait four months to see a provider. i terminated the call, feeling frustrated and angry that my healthcare was being jeopardized due to the backlog in the system. the next week, i call my va clinic and ask to speak to a supervisor who was not available. i then provided my information for return call. not having to see the return call for two days, i again called the clinic and spoke with a supervisor. i re-inerrated my story, but it was apparent and she was unable and unwilling to help. she gave me some unclear information about how i proceed if my condition worsened, which i felt was not a solution to my problem. out of desperation, i call my local va representative and explain my situation. to my surprise, i received a call in the next day from a clinic nurse who presented the option of telemedicine. initially, i was reluctant because being seen by a doctor through a monitor was counterproductive to any medical experience i had in the past. the nurse was thorough explaining the process and ensuring that the doctor would have my lab results and she would also review my medical history. i scheduled appointment and will have seen you done a week. i arrived for my appointment and was escorted back to examination room in a timely manner. i was seated in front of a monitor in the two-way camera. the doctor introduced herself. she was very pleasant, did not appear to rush and she was well prepared. it was evident based on her questions that she had reviewed my recent tests and medical history. during my appointment, the doctor ordered more tests and made a referral for a new medical condition that she noted. she even apologized for not having the ability to examine me. even more surprisingly, i received a call from her one week later with my test results. in conclusion, i had great experience with telemedicine. my appointment wait time was reduced from two months to one week. my appointment started on time rather than a normal one hour lobby wait time. the doctor was not rushed during my appointment and took the time to listen to my concerns. the only obvious drawback is not having the doctor to physically examine you, but i would use telemedicine in the future. telemedicine should be presented to veterans as an option for medical care and not as a last resort. thank you very much. thank you mr. walker. dr. roga, you are now recognized. thank you. i am kevin chairman, woodstruck and a ranking member, brownlee. it is a great privilege to be able to appear before the committee and testify about telemedicine in particular the critical role in contribution to the va telehealth system. i was a physician founder of c3o telemedicine, located in ohio, california, in the matured county. when my company was founded, it was founded upon the principle that americans should not be penalized for gaining access to healthcare based upon geography, whether it is rural or inner city areas. today, and we provide acute stroke care to help through telemedicine over 30 hospitals across the country, including great state of california. additionally, i have served as the secretary of treasury and foreign director for the american telemedic association, and i might mention that the current president is general peak, former va secretary. in january of 2015, mr. coral blade with a paralyzed veterans that remarked to testify before this very same committee. in just the paraphrase, he stated that the viability of the va healthcare system depends upon a wholly integrated system so that veterans get the care that they need when and where they need it and use it for the matter. i think the va telehealth program addresses his comments. for the past 10 years, i have studied many telehealth models and have been most impressed by the va models both exemplary and successful. this past may add the privilege of meeting with dr. david schok and under secretary of health at the va at our national meeting. he provided us with some key elements and statistics that some of you have just mentioned that over 2 million telehealth encounters affected 12% of the total va population, 45% of those encounters occurred in rural areas, therefore, including in the waste time to go for 10 minute visit, which might take two hours of both directions. more importantly, the outcomes, which in that sense we always want to know what kind of outcomes there were. in 2015, home telehealth reduced hospital bed days by 8.58%. hospital admissions by 32% and used to psychiatric beds by 35%. so looking at the future, the va telehealth model has a tremendous opportunity to number one, provide the continued leadership and developing a system-wide telehealth network. those of us in the private world of telehealth, look at that as an exemplary model, something that we should strive for. we have the opportunity to develop public-private partnerships, in particular as was previously mentioned, the shortage of positions. we currently provide as a private company to some major universities around the country to fill in the gap for shortage of neurologists that universities do not have. i can see that happening between the va companies such as mine and others, major systems like down the road ucla, which is developing a telehealth program with center. we need to push for cms to expand reimbursements for telehealth, particularly to metropolitan statistical areas, which essentially is urban areas. right now medicare and laws do not pay for telehealth in urban areas. fourth, the establishment and criteria for adequate, accurate and safe consumer technology that can serve our homebound veterans and patients. and finally, something that is really, really important from my perspective, and that is the deal with the interstate licensing. the va, the military, has the phenomenal ability to have one license of practice in 50 states, just like you have one license derived from california, new york, or cincinnati. right now it takes, it costs over $600 billion to pay for, the exorbitant amount of time is a hundred-year-old system that is gain equated, and is state medical for sometimes may not be looking at the best interest to get programs out and functional, and hopefully get addressed that. so once again, thank you very much for allowing me to appear before you today. thank you, dr. gallen, you are now recognizing that for five minutes. good morning, mr. chairman, we are meeting with brownlee. thank you for the opportunity to discuss the efforts the va has taken to develop telehealth. the services va provides better and through it and its expansion. i am accompanied today by dr. scottie barpartron, chief of staff, the greater los angeles healthcare system. the va is recognized as a pioneer in practice of telehealth and has used telehealth to substantially increase healthcare access for veterans. since 2000, 2 million veterans have obtained some of their healthcare through telehealth services, and the number of veterans utilizing these services can be also grown. visually, your 15-year-old va can dump you over 2 million telehealth visits and serving all 700,000 veterans. the mission of the va telehealth services is to provide the right care and the right place at the right time. through the effective economical and reasonable use of health information and telecommunications technologies, telehealth changes the location where healthcare services can be provided, making care accessible to veterans and their local communities and their homes and even their pockets on mobile devices. eat with critical. it allows services to be delivered from any location, allowing the va to hire providers in large metropolitan locations in order to serve veterans and areas of provider scarcity. leveraging telehealth affords the va an opportunity to increase access, especially for those veterans in rural or underserved areas. the va currently offers over 50 types of clinical services through telehealth. of the services offered through video conferencing, telemental health is the most carefully utilized and is also an area of strategic growth. for context, more than 2 million mental health visits have been provided to almost 400,000 veterans since 2002. va has found telemental health to be equally effective if not more so than in person appointments. this exemplifies a patient-centered model that efficiently brings mental health care to veterans who might otherwise need to travel significant distances to attend such care. in 2016, building on the success of the existing telemental health program, the va has established four regional telemental health clinical resource centers. the goal of these centers is to expand mental health provider services at rural facilities where recruitment of providers can be challenging. when fully staffed, these resource hubs are projected to provide an additional 65, 82,000 mental health visits per year to have locations in need. va also manages a national telemental health specialty consult center. this center has a virtual clinical team comprised of leading national experts in specific mental health conditions who can be located anywhere in the country. these providers are able to deliver their specialized mental health consultation services to locations in the country to any locations in the country to assist veterans with the most complex conditions. this center has delivered services to over 4,600 veterans at over 120 locations. the va continuously adds new telehealth specialties and services as technology improves. for example, tele intensive care is a telemedicine program that links intensive care units in va medical centers to a central monitoring hub staffed with intensive physicians and experienced critical care nurses. through the use of cameras mounted above each patient's bed, along with links to medical recruitment while sign monitors, staff in the tele icu hub not only see all department medical data on a patient, but they are capable of performing audio visual exams, discussing treatment plans with patients, nurses and families, intervening during emergencies, and generally providing specialist level care and consultation to the local staff. tele icu is now replaced with a local icu care team, but adds specialist resources and another set of expertise to watch over our most critically ill veterans. looking forward, the va's excited to expand a teleprime rate care model similar to telemental health that will bring virtual primary care providers, social workers, psychologists and pharmacists into world sites where they need it. va is also developing the va video connection which can provide a fast, easy, encrypted real-time video connection between a veteran's personal mobile device or computer and a provider. va recognizes we are still at the beginning of our journey to best leverage our integrated national healthcare system and remote care technologies. va would be able to accelerate this expansion and leverage new opportunities if our clinical and technical capabilities to deliver outstanding healthcare, virtual technologies, or unambiguously supported by legal authority to deliver clinical services, irrespective of the veteran or the provider's location. va is a leader providing tele-neural services which will manage a critical strategy in ensuring veterans can access healthcare when within a hit. with the support of congress, we have an opportunity to shape the future and ensure that va's leveraging cutting-edge technology provide convenient, accessible, high-quality care to all veterans. this journey includes my testimony for the opportunity to testify before it is too late today. we appreciate your support and look forward to responding to any questions you and members of the community that they have. thank you, dr. dr. harkoff here, now right in that is your button. good morning, mr. chairman and a ranking member, brownlee. thank you for the opportunity to discuss the efforts that gla has taken to develop, deploy and expand telehealth. in fiscal year 15, gla provided 20,000 telehealth visits to over 6,000 veterans. gla uses all telehealth-related modalities to include clinical video telehealth, store-in-forth technology, and home telehealth. clinical video telehealth involves a clinical provider in a patient interacting via video telecommunications such as teleminal health, while store-in-forth technology takes digital images that may be reviewed remotely by specialists such as things with diabetic redness, being examined by an eye specialist or suspicious looking mold by dermatologists. and then lastly, the home telehealth which allows prompting and monitoring for chronic diseases such as diabetes. gla currently has 34 different telehealth clinics available that range from audiology to mental health. at the oxnard c-box we currently have seven different telehealth clinics which include different types of mental health clinics such as journal mental health, ptsd, compensation and pension and others. i major focus at gla is to improve access to our, for our veterans and the use of telehealth services is one way to help do that. one example is in may gla, i think, i began a pilot teleprimary care program at the oxnard c-box. since gla did not have a teleprimary care program at the time, this pilot was set up specifically to help address the primary care access demand at the oxnard c-box. this pilot was not to replace traditional face-to-face primary care provided at the c-box but as a supplement while the additional needed primary care staff were being recruited and hired. due to the pilot's success in improving access to primary care at oxnard, gla has made arrangements to continue providing teleprimary care services until the tele-traditional primary care clinical access reaches a stable and improved state and provide another option for veterans based on their preferences. another example of how telehealth programs can improve is previously testified as the chronic c-states that we use with the home telehealth. in veterans enrolled in home telehealth in fiscal year 16 and have had an increase in physical home admissions six months after being enrolled when compared to how often they were requiring hospital admission before enrollment. gla is currently reviewing the demand for telehealth as well as face-to-face services and implementing action plans to continue improving access. specifically for the oxnard c-box gla has recently added tele-audiology and a face-to-face audiology technician to help with hearing aids. additional face-to-face specialty care services are scheduled to begin soon at the oxnard c-box, including cardiology, cardiac echo cardiography, this month in august, gastroenterology, and september, and physical therapy in october. in conclusion, telehealth will not completely replace the traditional face-to-face clinical care. the gla is adding additional telehealth resources to improve access to care for veterans by supplementing traditional face-to-face clinical care, win, to whom, and wear appropriate. mr. chairman and ranking member brownlee, this concludes my testimony. thank you for the opportunity to testify before the committee today, and we appreciate your support. i look forward to responding to any questions you or others may have. thank you. thank you all very much. at this time, i am going to give myself five minutes for questions. in that, i want to start with you, mr. walker. you mentioned that telemedicine was offered as a latch resort. correct. and can you expand on that a little bit? and what would you say to veterans who are becoming aware of telemedicine as an impossible choice for a method of care? i say, when i spoke on it being a latch resort, i have used health care since i had discharged from the military in 1979 up to this last episode, and i had never been introduced to the product telemedicine. i think it was through my frustration and my pushing to get some adequate care that it was presented to me as a latch resort and not as an option. maybe if it was presented to me early on in the process when i was given a two-month time frame to see a doctor, it might have been a more positive result, but me pushing it was like a latch resort. i say for any veteran that may be going in there for a normal testing, dr. spokane diabetes, any related tests that you normally go through and you want your results and you want your results in a timely manner, that is a good option. any kind of medical condition that does not necessarily put a doctor actually put hands on to you, i think is a outstanding idea that it was introduced to the va. thank you. so in that context about him filling this last resort, is this is developing and growing the questions for dr. gelfon if you would turn expanding telemedicine throughout the va system. what kind of an algorithm do you anticipate? is there one in place, should we put one in place, for that being an option rather than, hey, you know what, we got somebody on the phone who is kind of upset, the appointment got canceled, let us throw that at him. is this going to be part of an algorithm that is an option up front for people and what does that look like and will that be sort of busy to busy or a national program? i appreciate that question. so right now it is actually very much a part of our strategic plan to help develop the capacity of telehealth. so we have discussed a little bit of telemetry health hubs and teleprivate care hubs we want to develop. those hubs will serve as essentially an interim staffing program for facilities so it will provide a means and a better and less left without a primary care provider or resources of a mental health provider. we will have resource centers that can help out and fill in the staffing levels. so that is kind of the regional level and then the type of help we can provide to each other across and integrate healthcare system like the va. in addition, we want to see telehealth being used on a day-to-day basis and the regular practice of medicine. so when veteran comes into a clinic and they need the retinal screening, we want to make sure we have that option available. we want to make sure we have the dermatology option available on every clinic. it does not necessarily have to all be through telehealth but we have the capability now of offering services and standard way across the board at convenient locations that we did not have before. it is really want to integrate those practices and really take advantage of that. so the question i have is if so much calls for an appointment and they are being told you know what you can be seen in three weeks. you know here at the va when they make that initial call for an appointment might they not be given that option right off the bat is what i am asking. yeah and i think if the services are available i think that is that is the key question so at this point we are still expanding our telemedicine programs and we have a lot to do we are still beginning with the journey and this is one of those areas that you know we are seeking help from congress so we can more rapidly increase our program. but if the services are available then we have the opportunity to leverage those services for the individual patient when they call in and we first have to get to the point where they are available and we have that resource sharing capability. so then i will make it to you first second dr. rogov when you were talking about the licensure across states and things like that because currently to be a provider at a va or federal facility you just need a state license and then you you know you apply credential as you normally would. so if someone is in a different state but they are credentialed to the va. do you as there are a barrier for someone in ohio to take care of someone in california via telemedicine if they have credentialed with the va in some way. specifically the va? yes i take it to a federal agency. yes they have the capability of being a physician who is wanting to take care of a patient in another state. if you have gone in credentialed through the va. correct so right okay so there is an option to give them that. that is my yours. you want to say something dr. gallivan on that? yeah so it is actually this is i think that what we are seeking from congress on the list is that actually the laws are someone in the vacuumists in this area and it is one of our major barriers to be in the expansions. so you are correct if i have a license to practice an asp and i have licensed in georgia i can go to a va facility and i can provide care at that facility for veterans. it gets ambiguous when you take that provider outside of the air property where you take care the patient outside of the air property. so if you look at the way we want to leverage this technology a weekend overcome space barriers and use alternate work sites instead of providers quickly in their homes without having to build new spaces or take care of veterans in their homes or as they are on their mobile devices going across country it is not clear and so that is really what we are seeking is because in an ambiguous law that says va providers irrespective of our location or the veterans location can take care of our patients. it is our major aspect. it is certainly you are seeking some seeking for us to codify this to some degree and say look because i am always felt especially as we put choices in place. you can be a va doctor you do not have to be within those walls of the va. so if you are a va doctor and ohio, it only participates in the telemedicine program whether you ever go in within the walls of the va but you are credentialed by the va and you can do that anywhere in the country for one of our veterans and is that in my own track with what you are seeking to clarify that or make that available? that is what we are looking for again i want to be able to provide care regardless of my location regardless of the veterans location and it is really looking for i think a pretty straightforward legislation that uses that authority that we essentially already have within our own buildings and that is the fifth or second question. and now you will move to the ground. did you want to add something? yeah, david. it is just briefly it is interesting cms just released the piece scheduled for 2017 and ended there redefining more the telehealth that the way you look at telehealth is the originating site which the hospital is requesting where the patient is and then there is the distance site which is where the telehealth doctor is. the way it works right now is is the patient center which means you are cross these boundaries to be the license. however what cms is now proposing is that it is based upon the distance site with the physicianist and otherwise that physician can come for and you can take care of a va patient whether it is at their home or in the va hospital in the state of ohio. so this is something that is proposed was just released a couple weeks ago and this will change the game a bit and maybe give it some leverage. thank you. well that is very new information i was not aware of. i just wanted to follow up with mr. kaupen on the line of questioning now in terms of solutions or expansion of these resources. is it that simple really just to pass a piece of legislation that says you can do it or is it more complex and interwoven with all of the various states and their licensing and so forth and so on. so you know if it sounds to me like what you are expressing is something that is you know pretty simple. i mean i served in the state legislature in california and boys, scope of practices issues were oh my goodness. you know you pass a committee room and that is where you had 50 people standing in line to testify in the committee. so i just want to make sure that it is something as straightforward and relatively simple to resolve this issue. yeah i would say i think with pretty simple clarity i do think it is a simple solution from a legislative standpoint. as a lot of people already assume there is kind of an understanding of belief that the va already has this expressive work and again it is ambiguous. we and some people's eyes have the authority but it is not codified. we cannot point to legislation and say listen we can do this and so when we want to set up telemedicine hubs and move providers from where we have relative abundance to where we have relative scarcity becomes this large legal question and it really slows us down in some cases it it handpours us to moving forward quickly. so yes i think there is a fairly simple solution that can be provided by the devil immediately helpful six fan. when we are seeking providers in a network that hear it is tri-west so they are sought out and approved based on the standard within va that is the one central standard that is across the board nationally that is correct right. can you clarify the question on that? yes so as we recruit providers for the choice program for example for veterans to be able to use doctors in their communities rather than the va if you know based on the criteria now is if you know if you cannot get out of point within 30 days and and the 40 mile rule although all of our veterans here know that the 40 mile rule that is reply to us here in the in the county we keep trying to fix that but we have not we have not achieved that yet so all i am saying is that when when they are recruited to be provide community providers for for the va are they approved by the va by the same standard by which you approved doctors within the va. okay so where one piece that is need to clarify so we are talking about our telemedicine program we are actually talking about providers that are higher or work directly with the va. correct. so we bring them into our system we go through the same process to credential and privilege them they have to be credentialed and privilege at a va facility so they go through the same standard plus then they get additional training to become telemedicine providers so they can serve in that capacity so yes the standards are best with the foundation of our program to make sure we can provide quality services. so you are not talking about expanding telehealth to our community partners. no i am talking about the authority for va providers and provide services to veterans. okay all right very good so i wanted to go back you know to our our our c-buck here in oxnard and the serbian are venture county veterans so so if you could describe to me dr. hartschopf exactly my understanding is there is sort of three pillars of telehealth services and if you could describe to me are all three of those pillars embedded into the oxnard c-buck or are we not there yet. yes all three are currently available the c-buck the cdd which is the clinical video teleconferencing the store and forward which is red tele-retinal and then also with the home telehealth which are the monitors so people have it at home okay so the store and forward telehealth is there and store and forward telehealth how does that synchronize with electronic medical records do once you have that data is it merged into permanently into the record of the veteran. that is the nice part is it does merge into a part of cprs where it can be viewed and the notes taken by the reviewer the remote side directly into the records and that is that imagine you know not having to distance slides off to a part-istant university that sometimes people have to do this could be real time literally the next day where there arrives a person reads and he goes right into the record and available for the provider to see the next day so it is really really a very timely modality when one thinks that the traditional means of sending out that most facilities do if they do not offer home services. very good. my time is up i believe in that. i am going to go another round. sure, all right. dr. roga, if i can get from you on your opinion on how we can better partner telemedicine practices like yours and increase the availability of telemedicine to the va. yeah i think one of the examples i mentioned briefly in the alluded to is the fact that capacity is really a work right now for health systems and i think you have physicians as i say in an academic medical center or va system where they have responsibilities on psych responsibilities, clinic responsibilities, education responsibilities and now you are adding and telling a health responsibility so so much you can get out of the physicians to do that and as predicted that we are going to be in i think in 2025 would be probably 90,000 positions short a little bit less than we thought so in an effort to do that i think this is where the public private partnership comes in. universities used to be in one solid of the va's and another solid of the private enterprise and another side of the other. if certain facilities have the capacity to help another facility or system i think that is the time we start to do that and our case in point is that we just got a big contract in northern new jersey it is two academic medical centers together with a bunch of rural and community hospitals and they just do not have the capacity for their physicians and neurologists in particular for stroke and they have solicited us to come in there and help solve the problem and while we are not physically present we have to all make their practice and you have you have been misstitial i say it is like having a partner without having to provide a 401k for you they are there to help you and then do what is necessary. night call, weekend call, vacation call to help believe you need to burn and prevent more burnout so i think there is a tremendous opportunity and drop the barriers between academic government and private and bring us all together and find out where the resources are and redeploy them. i mean ultimately our goal is to get care to our patients and in some ways as references get help from congress or get congress to get out of the way and let those things happen. dr. galvin credentialing process you know this is always an issue you know you even at the sea box you lose a doctor and you try to replace them and you may even have a va doctor from somewhere else and wants to come to your sea box and he is got you know several months credentialing process to go through rather than being able to just say look i already worked at this sea box over here why cannot i just come in and start working there but the credentialing process for telemedicine for example how is that operating and are there any any flies in the ointment there you want to address. so you had a transition privileging of courses of foundation one of the key ways that we maintain quality services we have the authority within our integrated healthcare system which is really a key for us to be able to do it self-efficiently to share privileging share privileging decisions from one facility to another about 100 joint commission so if i am privileged at the unnbpa and i want to work in telemedicine in another va facility anywhere in the country the other facility is not good need to go through all the primary resource verification that takes a tremendous amount of time but they can develop agreement but essentially says yes we trust the other facility that they are utilizing the processes they are expected to be utilizing under the joint commission and the policy to do the right thing and so we accept this provider as a provider that can provide services to our patients as a piece of that then that provider needs to be monitored but it needs to be by directional exchange of information between those facilities to make sure that the provider is competently performing their privileges after the fact but that is a process that makes it easier to move resources from one place to another. appreciate that mr. walker out of the question too when is your next point with the va? firstly i do not have one schedule. i am a pro-go-the-process of the referral that the doctor made for me so not with my primary care clinic but i do have one in the valet all plumbers. do you plan on your next primary care visit to be through dell and that is unless you feel a need to be physically examined? well i am not sure i was told later that my primary care physician retired and i do not at the present time have one assigned to me so we will move forward and i think it will go as far as the transition to the last. thank you. well thank you and i want to again sort of hearted back a little bit to the the oxenor and sea bug because i know there are many veterans here in the room who utilize that facility so i want to be as transparent so everyone in this room knows that we have gone through some growing pains at the oxenor to sea bug. we have expanded the physical footprint of the sea bug and once we did that then we were understaffed for a while and now i think we are at a point where we are now fully staffed and beginning to expand some special-to-care services and the sea bug but we are just sort of getting there in terms of a larger space and fully staffed and i think that you know telehealth is going to be a critical component in the services that our sea bug can offer but i want to be clear that you know if our veterans are calling up for appointments or coming into the sea bug for an appointment i think at this particular point most of our veterans are expecting that they are going to see a doctor and there is not going to be another another course or avenue for them to go down so you know it is the educational component here i want veterans to understand that if they want to see a primary care doctor in the sea bug we they can see a primary care doctor in the sea bug i do not want them to think that we are we are talking about all of this to substitute the traditional doctor patient relationship and and and those visits so but i do think and certainly based on dr. walker's testimony that there is a large learning curve that is going to take place i think probably some of our older veterans are going to be a little weary about using technology around their health because that is a that is a new concept for them i think our younger veterans might be more susceptible to it and open to it i think that i think once we understand how telehealth can augment their health care services and particularly to understand that this could eliminate those follow-up travels to sapulvada or west la that that can be done in the sea bug seeing a doctor face-to-face and perhaps even your doctor sitting with you in the examination room i think people then you know there is sort of fears and misunderstandings about what this all is can be alleviated and helped so i just want to understand and for everyone who is here today listening and i think almost everyone in the audience here today is here because of their positive or not so positive experiences within the sea bug so you know if you could you know just walk us through a new patient who has never been in the sea bug before and what their experience might look like and the experience of a veteran who comes into the sea bug has been seen by a primary physician who may have diabetes or who may have heart issues and explain you know what what the procedures might be in those two pathways okay first of all i would like to apologize to mr. walker for his experience with this first introduction to telehealth just to give a history with the telehealth introduction at the sea bug i arrived as the new chief staff on april 4th and noticed the demand was exceeding our supply currently and within by may 8th we were starting our first thing our first patient with teleprimary care the problem with four deployment in a rapid fashion of four to five weeks is again that education curve was something we definitely again that is there i would like to apologize for because it was it is definitely something that gives another preference another choice it is not going to fit everyone but it also was again giving them another choice to base that on so that is kind of how we roll that out is to see that because as you can imagine how much longer it brings up taste to bring on other providers through the process where one can see the problem after being here just a couple weeks and then within two to three weeks actually having first patient being seen by teleprimary care for actually for a new veteran if they are coming into our system as we are rolling out the education curve is giving them again explain the process to veterans as they are coming on as a new patient just saying what are your preferences we have options to include your face-to-face visit or a teleprimary care visit and then they would actually be able to our goal is to get that where they can choose one of those on the preference especially while as we are building our capacity at the current clinic so we definitely never want to replace face-to-face interaction with primary care that is not our goal that our goal is to give another option as we are bringing on the capacity. the nice thing is that we are adding peripheral devices we call it where they could actually have a more interaction with the physician with like a stethoscope that the tech on their side of the patient can actually put to the chest of the veteran and be heard well by someone remotely and other devices so that they can do more of a contact physically the same. it is for likely for the veteran as they come in it will be the preference choice on us to which they prefer and then some of it could be again that option based on what may be available sooner until we get all the panels fully expanded. and so when a patient comes into the c-bock and has an appointment then in terms of follow-up are the medical teams that are set up at the c-bock are they trained to say rather than you having to go i need you to have these tests but rather than going having the test but then not having to go back to west l.i. or some all of them we are going to if you were willing we will you know we can have that follow-up meeting here in the c-bock through our technology and you will be able to see the doctor that you might have seen or you know at least see the doctor or the specialist who can give you the results of these tests. yeah and also the well the choices even a veteran may start off with telehealth providers or teleprime and care but then we would like to get the option even at some point if they want to change over to an in person face-to-face. so that is one of the things that we definitely like to focus on is to and then we trained with texts that we have expanded resources to work texts on each side or being able to better walk the veterans through the process as mr. walker explained about bringing them back to any their assessment that by the nurse and bringing them in so again we are in that teleprime or care was a new event a new program especially the hawks nard program so here. and continuity of here i know that that is an issue that veterans you know we are very concerned about if they if they have a health issue they are interested in seeing the same position you know over the course of the treatment so how do you get that continuity of care through telehealth? again i think a lot of that is just the comfort and preference of the veteran as to if they want to if they do not mind seeing a secondary provider if they are a doctor they cannot be worked into their doctor schedule same day a lot of times as we have seen in private practice sometimes you can see a provider an extended provider it is same day but they work with your provider and have the same record so our goal is to even the veterans who start off with teleprime and care the option eventually would be to go to one of the face-to-face model unless their preference is to trip strictly stay with teleprime and care. the nice thing though is with our electronic records and our ability to have all the information right there in front of us unlike many closed systems in the private sector we it is really a lot more streamlined as they handoffs with patients so a lot of it is really we would like to make it to what they choose as to i do not want to make a template one size fits all i would really like to have these decision-treat based on their preferences and choices so it is kind of hard to describe what it would be for every veteran. thank you. you just touched on one of the things that i wanted to talk about which is making this type of an option the decision between the doctor and the patient and how they choose to proceed and my practice you know it started practicing 1986 and you know in later years i would have a patient called tree love that i would say one of the ulcers worried is it infected this and that you know and i could get on the phone and say take a picture of it let me just see it and i might save them a trip in because it looks fine or yeah i need to put you on a antibiotic and then i will schedule you for fall over the couple days and there is a lot of advantages that say time and money and really provide better care because you have that instant access for them and especially somebody who is homebound you know what a huge advantage these things can be in in a simple way. i would like to hear from really all of you because my feeling in the ideal situation for the va or for any health care system whatsoever that everyone has a primary care doctor and this is one of the things in my district that i saw was a huge value at the sea block you know i do have a lot of me and i talk to the patients out there and i love it they love it because that is my doctor i know who it is i know this person rather than the woman to the va i am going to see the day you know who will be there and it is a different one than i saw last time that happens in any practice but nonetheless they feel like they have got someone where there is a relationship and some ownership and so whether it is through dell medicine or through the face-to-face visit you have that opportunity and the other thing that i would like to see and maybe be comment on that referral decisions should be between that primary care doctor and the patient only we do not need another layer of care doctors if you are higher in primary care doctors you credential and you must trust them to make decisions and the patients to make decisions with them and that to me it is it is one of the things that we are time people are for doctors and it is time to move someone over and i thank you you someone comment on mr. walker where you said my doctor retired and so i would imagine that you are very interested in meeting your next primary care doctor like to yes okay but comment on those other aspects that he would go down the line so i my background is in trouble medicine critical for minutes but i worked as a part of the care provider and i agree with you i think it is very important to have that one provider who is recognized as the face of the va for the patient and coordinates care i mentioned the the telepronular care hubs this model we can provide interim staffing and what i really love about this program is that they commit a provider to work with a panel of patients so again if you are provider retires we have the option to bring a provider they commit to at least six months for that provider to take over that patient panel so it is the least the same telemedicine provider until they can hire the new provider clinics so you do get continuity in addition we have more than just the capability of bringing the provider in but they have psychologists and social workers and pharmacists they can bring action other members of the team to some of the rural sites that may not have those resources so functions as a very effective interim staffing program in addition we try and hire those providers someone regionally located to where they are going to be delivering services so even though their primary focuses are delivering telepronular care they do travel to those centers one week at least that every quarter to provide some in-person appointments veterans who may not be interested in having their care through virtual virtual meeting so we are really excited about these programs really just getting started on setting that model i think it is a very exciting model and it helped me overcome some of the barriers that i personally had as a former primary care provider how would this all work and will it fit all of our needs so very excited i think it helps address some of the questions you have. that could be an interesting one. no i completely agree with that in addition to the nice thing with telehealth is even when someone has established a provider the other modalities that the store and forward they can eventually have in the dermatologist help the primary care provider to site like with tele dermatology whether that should be know suspiciously should be removed and then also the home telehealth which is very nice with chronic diseases and provides better information for the more data points for the primary care provider to base longer term decisions over instead of single point blood pressures when it comes to clinic for say or blood sugar so so the nice thing is you can even if you are not in the tele that is the cbt program where you face to face the primary care doctor can actually use the other modalities to expand and care to others. yes thank you i have a question i am looking forward here so dr. galvin i my staff made me actually aware of a report from the commonwealth fund which noted that patients who used vha telehealth services between 2003 and 2007 that 96% were male and 4% were female. i was wondering if you know if there is if you can add something to that data point. yeah so we looked at the that information looking at our most recent fiscal year so we have about 7.4% of our our better population being served in the va of our female veterans and about the same proportion used telehealth services so if you look at all the encounters it is about 7.2 to 7.4% of our clinic base telehealth programs and storm forward programs similar to the home telehealth model so it is a program that is utilized by female veterans i think about the inconsistent rate as this with our male veterans we have also gotten some programs that are uniquely geared toward female veterans so we have a it is actually a further one less but women's health primary care we have a women's health stress disorder clinic goviching and and actually as of last week we just signed a webinar that is telehealth operations manual that will help facilities some of these programs provide the guidelines and basically how to get started so it is it is certainly an area of focus and there is a lot of great opportunities in there i think we will be getting to really take advantage of those. very good and in your testimony at least if you are written testimony you kind of describe these sort of three pillars of telehealth and it is fair to say that all three of those pillars are available throughout the country and every clinic across the country every medical center across the country is that where we are in terms of scale. so yeah that is some i will have to spend a little bit of time on this question so yes the three general pillars are generally available across the country people have clinical video telehealth services and a half-storing four telehealth services and home telehealth services from one location to another though the facilities may have chosen to invest in different types of offerings through those services so you cannot say for instance that every cbc every community based clinic is going to have a dermatology program or a tele-repo program from this type of program so the variety of the clinic is still a local decision based on what what are the needs at that facility what can that facility safely offer you know what is the decision medical executive committee or what are the needs of the veterans in those locations so getting in general yes they are available pretty big literally around the country however any individual offering and it is hard to say that is available in every location in our rural areas using it more than urban areas or is it you know pretty consistent or inconsistent across the country unless you are in every team you had about 45% of our townters were for veterans in rural areas so it is pretty it is pretty split i mean there is a lot of managers doing the roles in rural and urban communities very good and i think dr. hartraff you talked about i think it was you talked about consultation services these are specialists and so are those services or hubs is sort of the way i am thinking about them specialty hubs are they across the country do we have one in west los angeles we cannot take an approach to oh it is a new leadership of being theta driven and being strategic in the sense of what we have done is the veterans that we currently are looking at that drive to west la or spulveda from oxnard we have looked at what type of services are required to do so and those are the ones that we are focusing on primarily first whether we face to face and why we chose some of the programs we have and then what we do is based on that demand and how many we calculate would be during a week to save efficiency with that provider in our grids we use to side whether the telehealth would be providing enough and so we are kind of using both face to face driven on supply demand and how we are seeing our current veterans having to make that trip is kind of how we are rolling it out we are wanting to well i think we will look a lot different down the road but right now how we are choosing it is just based off of what we are seeing the veterans from ventura county having to make that drive to spulveda to west illinois very good well it seems to me that you know we have dr. rocav here who is really trying to push me envelope in terms of private healthcare delivery and he has barriers that the va does not that the va does not have and i think it is fair to say that the va has been a leader in in telehealth and you know i think the va has a large responsibility to keep pushing you know and pushing that envelope because if we are successful within the va providing these services and and and improving really to the rest of the world that this is indeed the future in in in the way the most efficient way to provide services most likely and certainly in terms of physician shortages and so forth and so i think we have a big responsibility to work not only with with private industry and work with some of their issues but we have a responsibility to be the trend leader here and to push the envelope and so i think you know i am certainly more interested in you know how we you know to the degree that you know we can continue to kind of keep pushing and pushing pushing on this particularly when you know i think about specialty care or those veterans who have a particular kind of illness or unusual illness where we really need expertise from you know across the country or brain surgeon that there is only three in the country that perform this this particular kind of surgery and that we are really you know continuing to really push push push when i first was elected i mean i knew very quickly that we were providing mental health through mental health services through telehealth or some veterans that that is wonderful they can be in a privacy of their own home they do not have to come to your office and wait in waiting room and and they feel more comfortable using telehealth for for their mental health services and to the degree that we can get more veterans use a lot utilizing our mental health services who need it that is that is that is a good thing so you know i want that but i also want to really be kind of pushing you know push it on the edges so that we can kind break barriers really for and and and as we try to do and the choice act to bring community partners with the va that we can do to be community partners within the telehealth arena as well and so you know i am certainly interested in and following up and making sure that we are overseeing you know the data on this and overseeing how we are pushing the envelope on this and i will bring that down to another level entirely and that is the local level here making sure that we are the education and so forth that i think needs to take place at the seabuck is there so that people know more of their options but you know in terms of where we might be scaling it sounds like we have scaled up you know across the country different regions are using it differently but that the the hardware so to speak the equipment that one needs to be able to provide these services seem to be you are telling me that they really are they exist you know across the country and so i will just be interested in the future to see you know where we are really kind of pushing pushing that envelope further and where we can be better partners it is in the private healthcare delivery as well thank you i have one more quick question do you measure weight times for telemedicine? so not not specifically for telemedicine i have some internal data from one of our programs i just know i look at data one of our dermatology programs we we are looking at various lighting programs serving a lot of veterans with their metology and they are able to turn them out of image and the consultation in one day on average when they look at their 12 month averages and average them so there is certainly in some exciting areas where the weight times can be where it is but we do not separate out the services we provide through telemedicine and then the weight times we better miss out the weight time and telemedicine is one of our services so the cutest did we get the patient into service regardless of what our reality we do so we do not have and then we get individual partners to the international level that is not something i am tracking there is just the weight time that would be something we want to look at is we move forward obviously you know this is exciting this is new this is growing and you know through that process no matter what it is you are always looking for what becomes the best practice and that is that is the work in progress right and so i do not think either of us or many people are audience anticipated you have got it all down right from the get go because it is growing into this changing and you have got to also educate patients on the opportunity as well so it is a mixed bag and i think the other thing to do is that you in implementing this let us make sure you have the flexibility to do the things that you want to do to provide care and we do not box ourselves into some type of protocol that may end up doing more harm than good sometimes you know we would have a flexibility to make decisions on behalf of the patients so a couple take a ways i have to do with the credentialing and the licensing questions and may be something we can work on and work with you on that to try and make it very clear as to how this is done with the cross mind mind as no matter where the doc is virtually he is in the va or she is in the va right and no matter where the patient is they are in the same state as the doctor that they are working with and so maybe we take that concept and apply it to the licensing and be able to take away that burden and make it more flexible and more opportunities for you but there is no further questions of panelists and i excuse and i want to thank you all for being here i think you all have wonderful input for us and again thank you and i want to thank the members of the audience for being here today as well it is been a pleasure for me to come to sunny california and he was all of you and hopefully i wanted to be problems on my flight back but with that i asked me now to consent that all members have five legislative days to revise and extend remarks and include extraneous material without objection so order the hearings now adjourned.