was also in 2012 that the house of representatives was considering the reauthorization of the violence against women act, but the majority of house republicans hesitated. they hesitated to support improvements to make sure all women, minority women, gay women, and students on college campuses would also be protected under the law. my opponent is well. my opponent in his race, he hesitated as well. in fact, he said that he refused to stand up for these added protections because he did not want to take sides in the matter. well, we all know what happened in 2012 that people with missouri knew better and rejected tariaken. in fact, across the country, candidates who did not stand up for women on domestic violence, choice, equal pay for equal work were soundly defeated. if you do not stand up for women, we will not stand up for you. one of our nation's greatest leaders stood up for the survivors of domestic violence, stood up for raising the minimum wage, stood up for equal pay for equal work, and stood up for choice. in fact, he signed the original violence against women act in 1994. in 2012, and support of expanding protections for all women, he is one of our nation's greatest leaders because he stood up for time and time again for those who need it standing up for. i am so proud that he has traveled to ventura county to help elect leaders who will stand up for survivors no matter what. leaders who will stand up for equal pay for equal work, and leaders who will stand up for women's right to choose. ladies and gentlemen, and all the great people of ventura county, the most lovely greatest honor of a lifetime, to give to you the 42nd president of ventura county. i actually have a daughter who is the only person i know that has got as many degrees as dr. ruiz. so i am happy what i am concerned about my country because we have one big problem, even though our citizens are more empowered than ever before. we have been laboring under this illusion a lot of us, particularly those of us who make more modest income and have to get kids to childcare early in the morning and go off to work, that it is enough for us to vote in presidential elections and we do not have to vote in the off-year election. well then the off-year election is 100 percent of the house of representatives is elected. one third of the senate is elected. most governors are elected. most state legislators are elected. and if you think it does not make it different, you are wrong. i just talked to one of my greatest old political friends, a man i start with, who was governor of north carolina for 16 years, a great progressive democrat named gemhot. and we are talking about it over there. here are the consequences of not voting in off-year elections. in the 2012 election, the democrat's money for the house of representatives in north carolina got more votes in the republicans. in the delegation, there are 10 republicans and three delegates. how is that possible? it goes too many people to invoke when all those legislators were elected. you have got to read all the lines. so the first thing i want to tell you is all of you who are here, it is a good sign. these people will all be elected if you vote. yeah. and the real choice is not most of what is in the air. the real choice is shaped by one central reality. in 2008, we had a financial crash. it was horrible. it was really horrible for california. you paid a terrible price to the education cuts in oslo. and you would like to jerry brown, and i think he took the little brother home. okay, now. in 150 years, there have been four financial crashes in america and many in other rich countries throughout the world. we had them in 1872, 1892, the depression in 32, and then one in 2008. there was one in japan in 1990. there was not over what i left office. they take on average 10 years to get over. that is on average it takes 10 years to get back to jobs you lost when the financial section cracked. and if not harder to figure it, thank you for all the people who lost their homes in california. so, banks are scared to land. people are scared to borrow. families are scared to spend. everybody's scared to take a chance. when a business starts doing better, they just try to get everybody who works for them, work hard, and so the harms of the extra. everybody goes around on inkships. it takes a long time. last month, in six years, america got back all the jobs we lost. i do not expect anybody to be happy because ordinary people do not feel it yet. and because ever since i left office, almost all the gains have gone to people at the top. but when i was there, listen to this. compared to the only time trickled down economics over work, which was when president reagan tried it because we never had trickled that economics before where you gave all the tax cuts to upper income people and ran and trickled at that and did all that stuff. so, it is like we were on an eight-year sugar high. he was devastating, and the president was you following him, and that is why i was elected. and let us just take the best they ever did to trickled down economics. the top 20 percent of us, when i was president, and he was president, both had their incomes increased by more than 20 percent. actually, they did a hair better under reagan, but only because the top two percent of them. the next 20 percent, 25 percent better under bill the middle class, and give four people the chance to work their way into it, middle out economics. the middle 20 percent of us, they are 50 percent better when i was president. the next day, the 80th percent out, the 4th, 20 percent, did more than twice as well. and listen to this, the bottom 20 percent under reagan, their incomes went up seven cents of one percent. when i was there, 23.6 percent. yeah, why did they inform us about it? because we are back, we are like freddie kluber, it all is new to us. and his election is really about deciding how we are going to go forward. and what is really paying for all those black-back ads is a passionate desire on the other side to go right back to the trickled down economics that got this country in trouble in the first place. i do not know, anybody else said that. we do not want to raise the minimum wage, we believe in equal pipe for equal work. we believe in reform into college, law and program, lower the interest rate to make it possible for people by all that wants to act as a legitimate dinner income, so we know what else we call that. we believe in investing in the future and times and technology. that is what we believe in. we believe in training people who will not get for your college degrees for jobs that will be available. so as soon as they get through with the program, they can go right to work. we believe in helping veterans who serve this country. to be served by the fourth day day in the military, so they can work in the private sector. we believe in helping women veterans who overcome the slits of our activities, they can. we believe that we are all in this together. and that is what the selection is about. so if we vote, as if there were a presidential election, there will not we? and we do not. we are in trouble. and your being here shows that. but do not make any mistakes. i do not care what the answer is, that is what the election is about. we are back to ground zero. we have got our jobs back. we are giving a chance to now make the future. and the question is, if we are going to do it together, or not, i work all over the world. and i can tell you, that whether it is working with congressman dr. ruiz and the consulate valley, which we, and my foundation as a project that he is been leading heavily involved in, to improve the health outcomes of the people there, are working with women farmers who form an acre, a land in malawi with a handheld hope, where we have increased their incomes and average of five hundred and seventy percent per year. wherever people work together across the lines that we look at throughout the five year good things happen. whenever people spend all their time fighting, good things do not happen. this is not rocket science. these are jobs. i am really proud of mayor aguilar. i mean, he was hardly old enough to vote, hardly old enough to shave the first time he was elected. i am the same guy. i was reading his biography. i realized he moved to revolence when i was president. i made me feel ancient. but he worked across the line to get balance with budget and he invested in the community and he generated a job by working together. the thing that impressed me when i started working with congress, with reeds, he was not a congressman. he was a doctor. and as you just heard, the son of farm workers, who was living in a county that had the richest and poorest americans, living in a place where everybody respected his hard-earned skills. and i noted how he moved easily among the people he went home to help. when he could have taken those three hard-earned degrees and gone to new york and made a fortune. and he came home to help. and i noted that he was comfortable with the people he came from. and now it is changed. and he did not want to escape. he wanted to embrace. but he was also comfortable with people who could help him achieve those dreams. and so we did something that we have done before. we got all these people in that county across party lines and income lines, everybody working together to improve health outcomes because if you can keep people healthy or longer, your health care costs will go away now. i think we are two years ago to campaign for him and to campaign for julian. and i was impressed that when she got to the congress, she wanted to work on veterans assignments. she wanted to help women veterans. and she served a position in the congressman committee that invests in science and technology because technology related jobs are going to create the opportunities of california's future. so i will say again, i do not care what you are under against. this is a job. and since i cannot run for anything anymore, i can tell you something. i still like to have an experience. if you live, you reach a certain point in your life. and you realize that even if you live to be 100, you still got more yesterdays than tomorrow's. and believe it or not, you are tomorrow's minimal. i think less about the past today than i did when i was in my 20s. when i was 20, my 20s, i wanted to be one of those great southern novelists. so i was obsessed with every little detail of my life. now i think about the only thing that matters in public service. it is the only three things that matter. and this is when they keep scoring. or people better off when you point them when you start. to our children and grandchildren who have a brighter future. and our things coming together instead of being torn apart. if you can give the right answers to that, the rest of this is all the background music. this is about you. this is not a close question. nobody really thought she could win. and now the republicans are spending all this money to beat her by confusing you. i got to admit, they have been trying to blame the president for the ebola outbreak. we were reading some of these, lifting some of these news programs you would think that every third person had given the facts. one man in canada, the united states, gravely ill already, has passed the weapon. two nurses who got it because they were courageous enough to treat people have been cured and are ebola-free. one more doctor is still in his period of treatment and in all probability will survive. that is it. now i take all this posturing and blaming personally because my foundation works in liberia. and we had to take our eight workers out of the people work on aids out of the field. but our top four people were asked by the president of liberia to stay by that and work because they had no health care system. you want to make sure that ebola comes to america, fix the health care systems and liberia to get them. and that is it. in nigeria, they have one ebola case and the country is going to clear the ebola for you. you know what? they said 500 doctors to 19,000 homes and 36 hours. they isolated everybody that had ever had any kind of contact. they held the port down and they fixed it. this is a fixable problem. but if you are interested in it, you got to get everybody working together and you got to just tune out all that blame place and i may be interested in first my ears. and i got four people there who have recently arrived ever since they have broken out and thank god not have been infected yet. but it is a metaphor for what the selection is about. once i have watched you be all torn up and upset and stopped thinking, we want you to think about the fact that we got our jobs back now we can create the future. and we ought to do it together with ebola for general israel. equal participation. i am telling you, i do not feel like anybody goes on the air, that is what this election is about. that is what the violence against one night is about. and it happened that i was super sensitive to it because i grew up in a home that had the domestic violence. but you should not have to personally experience poverty and want poor people to have a chance to become doctorate. you should not have to personally be elected. may our city and the inland empire to believe that republicans and democrats could work together to balance a budget and grow the economy. we should not have to be the first immigrant elected in 70 years in the turra county to know that there is no partisan difference when it comes to empowering veterans when they come home and make the most of them all right. i am just telling you again. i am grateful i got to go to my fence and reunite. i am grateful to be grandfather. i am grateful that my wife and i have had a chance, hearing i have had an unbelievable chance to live lives that could never have been predicted given our child's. and i just want you to do it. and i am just telling you, working together works constantly conflicts of dead vanguism. thinking about what you can do to liberate the potential of every human being and helping everybody do well works and triple down economics to the dead vanguism. and the only way you lose is if you stay home. now they gave me some notes on how this works. so i am going to read down. i am sorry, i love you bill. you are a man of wealth. if you do the low bottom male, they got to be male by tomorrow because they got to be in my election day. otherwise you can walk your ballad in and drop it off after falling place or you are going to use boat on election day. you need to decide how you are going to do this. and then you need to convince other people what they all do. the one problem with these rallies no matter how great they are is that in the parlance of my native culture i am preaching the same to you. but every one of you know somewhere between 2500 and 100 people that you will actually physically see between now and the election who are not here. we have the exactly the same interest you do in the outcome of the election and who may not go if you do not personally ask them and tell them what we discussed here. if you want more affordable college homes you got to vote for julie render. ladies and gentlemen, ladies is a really good idea. i do not care what anybody tells you. i am lazy to just go. i am lazy to just president. i tried to raise it as twice and the republicans would not go along with me. and every time i ever tried to raise it i hear the same thing they are saying now all this will be bad for small business and all that is let me tell you something. if we raise an minimum wage tomorrow $20 an hour everything they say is right. that is it would be too much of a joke to the economics system. nobody's talking about that. but if you raise it to a reasonable amount, if you raise it to a little over $10 it would give up to 40 million americans of pay raise because a lot of people had right just above the minimum wage we get of pay raise. and what happens? an enormous percentage of those people are working people with little kids. they have got all they can say grace over to support their children and pay their bills. they will go out and spend all that money. the people who sell them whatever it is they buy will have more money. they will turn around or order more of that and the people that fill the orders they will be better off. and before you know it, the economy will be growing from the ground up instead of trying to trickle down. can you tell me? please, none of this matters that you do not vote. this is your chance. we finally crawled our way out of the hole and we beat 150 year rule by four full years. we are in the best position of any country on the face of the earth to make the most of the 21st century. it is your life, your future and you have to go vote for it by voting for these great people. so vote for julia brown. welcome. welcome to ken out of the world. and have a great day for you.