thank you all for coming out. i have circulated the room and the interior county as well represented at this room. i am from emily city from o'hyde, santa paula to right here in camarillo, the oxnord. all of you are here. thank you so very, very much. and i know all of you have busy lives and you have family and friends and the fact that you would come out to this to express yourself the commitment. many, many of you are making this part is quite extraordinary and i am extraordinarily grateful. i am going to be trying to get everybody into the room so we are not turning anybody away. so there might be a little bit of moving around in movement from the very beginning. but we are here tonight to talk about the affordable care act and what may be proposed to repeal it and replace it. and i have heard from many of you about your experience with the affordable care act. some have told me how the affordable care act has saved their lives. some have complained it is a little too complicated, a little too expensive, but no one has been left out in opinion. that is for sure. my respect to everyone, my response to everyone has been, i know the law is a perfect, i am committed to improving it. and my ultimate goal, my ultimate goal is to have an affordable, quality, healthcare system for each and every american. for years now, republicans have threatened to repeal the affordable care act and in one form or another, replace it with something they say is better. president trump recently said, quote, we will unleash something that is going to be terrific. of course, better and terrific are both in the eye of the holder and will be defined in the details of actual legislation. and then, sweating the white house and both houses of congress, i am sorry to say, it would not be an understatement to say the republicans are the proverbial dog that finally caught the bus. it has been chasing for years. they are now confronted with having to define truly what is better and what does it better really mean, which is significantly more complicated than a half a decade of their just constant and persistent talking points. what we do know is that repeal and replace are two words being bandied about quite a bit. whether we have repeal, delay and replace or what i would call the wing in a prayer plan or we have repeals, i am retainously with replace or some combination of the two, there is no doubt that our nation's healthcare system will undergo significant change and that is scary for all of us and everyone really across the country. whether you receive your healthcare from medicare or medicaid, your employer through the state exchanges or you pay for it at a pocket on a designated basis, healthcare reform will impact you. i can guarantee that. so no matter what happens, we need to be careful, we do not want chaos, we want certainty, we want greater access, not less. we want more. we want more affordable, not less. and we want higher quality, not lower quality. i think the law and public is in a congress claim they want to approve healthcare for all americans. if that is the goal, then we agree. but if they have a plan to do that, i have not heard of it yet. they have had more than as i said earlier, a half a decade to come up with one. i do not know that they have some proposed old ideas in a set of principles that have been around for some time now and criticized for some time as whole like inadequate. in fact, recent headline in the la times called their plan, quote, an attack on abortion rights and a handout to the rich. we will talk more about the various components of speaker ryan's proposal during this time hall. but in a nutshell, it includes block really and caping medicaid funding to the states, health savings accounts that will benefit the wealthy. state mandated high risk polls that have proven not to work. i and across state lines premium subsidies based on age, but not when they come. no guarantees for preventive care, maternity care, or mental health care. and yes, it will prohibit insurance plans from covering abortions, even when the coverage is paid for by the woman. these proposals, if this is the direction they go, would make health care more expensive for the vast majority of americans, would reduce access for millions of americans and would lower the quality of health care for most americans. but as i said, the republicans are still trying to figure out how to proceed. this and the last few weeks, pressure from the public, from all of you, has slowed the process down and forced the republicans to take a step back. our voices, your voices, are making a difference. there is still time to impact how they will proceed. i have brought three experts here today and two members of our own community who will tell you how health care impacts their lives. and then i want to open it up to you for questions. while i know that health care is very personal and there were very strong opinions, although it seems like this is a crowd that is all on the same page, i am just asking everyone to be respectful of each opinion that might be standing in the room. and if you have any further questions or comments following the town hall or if my staff can help you with case work, please write your comments or questions in the back of the agenda cards and leave them with my staff. we want to be ready and prepared to help you if we can. so with that, i would like to introduce our panel. first is abby corpsoll is a staff attorney with the national health law program based in los angeles. the national health law program is a nonprofit organization that works to protect and advance the health rights of millions of people. their lawyers and policy analysts work at the federal and state levels to provide all americans with access to affordable quality health care. abby is a tireless advocate and litigator with a special focus on low income health programs, including medicaid, managed care, medicaid expansion and basic health programs. barry zimmerman, many of you might know barry. barry is the director of the ventura county human services agency and we will speak to what the aca looks like right here in ventura county. and finally nancy gomez. nancy is the organizing director of health access california, a statewide health care consumer advocacy coalition representing consumer groups, communities of color, immigrants, people with disabilities, women and children and seniors, all with a common goal of ensuring quality affordable health care for all californians. nancy is an integral part of the on-the-ground mobilization and advocacy efforts of the organization and her cross-cultural perspective and experience is especially valuable and reducing health disparities and addressing health equity and inclusion. so we will start right up with abby and i will pass the microphone on to you. thank you. thank you all for being here this evening. it is really wonderful to see so many people engaged in this issue. i am here. all right. hi, is this better? yes. that is great. so i am here tonight to provide sort of a national perspective and a little bit of a historical perspective on why do we have the aca? okay. and what is it meant and where we might go from here? so i do not know how many of you remember back to 2009, 2010, but it was pretty hard time for people who did not have access to health care through an employer or through medicare or through some other means. as of 2012, over 50 million americans were unsure and that includes 70 million right here in california and about 130,000 here in ventura county. so that not the real life, we just did not have access to health care or when they needed health care services, they had paid for those services completely out of pocket. now for others, even if they had health care, the cost was pretty high. to buy coverage out of pocket insurance companies could pretty much charge whatever they liked, they were not a lot of cost controls and your out of pocket costs were also could be very high. so even if you had coverage, you might be paying thousands of dollars in copays, co insurance, deductibles and so on. not only that, but the coverage was often pretty scanty. there was no requirements in terms of the services that plants have to cover. so you could for example, buy a plan that did not include hospitalizations or maternity services. and so if you have this covered and you needed that service, you were still out of lock. and in addition, i can implement lifetime caps on limits on coverage, meaning they would only cover you up to a certain amount and that if you needed more care, you were on your own. i will just give a personal anecdote. for me, i graduated from law school back in 2009 and i had about two month gap between when i finished school and when i started my first job. and i am someone who has asthma. it is well controlled. i have an inhaler that i use when i need it, otherwise i am pretty healthy. but i applied to buy some insurance for that little gap at the time that i had and i was rejected by three plans because i had a previous condition because i had asthma. finally, i was able to buy a plan but that plan said they would only cover me for anything except my asthma. they would not provide me the coverage for the service that i would actually need. now, in my case, i was only on the plan for a couple months and it was fine. luckily, i did not have any kind of major issue during that time but that was really the state of affairs back in 2009 that you really could not get the coverage that you needed often and if you did, you had to pay quite a bit for it. and just another more professional anecdote, my first job at a law school that i then started in 2009 was really working here in california on our county safety net program. so many of you may know there is a law here in california that says counties have to provide the basic healthcare services to the residents when they do not have them from another source. and back in those days, because medical was limited only to people who fit in certain categories like people who had a disability, someone who was a child, someone who was over the age of 65. there were a lot of people who did not follow any of those categories and just could not get coverage and the county was their last resort. now, luckily for you all, you look here in ventura county when your county does a pretty good job. so your county was not one of those i had to sue. but a lot of other counties did not do such a great job. i represented some plaintiffs in fresno county in the central valley, where their county would only provide coverage to people they were making less than $700 a month. i represented a gentleman who was making about $800 a month. he had epilepsy and he needed a medication that cost $1200 a month. you do not need to get him out in the addition to figure out that that is not going to work, right? so luckily for him, you were able to sue the county and get him some help. but this was really the state of affairs all over the state and all over the country. and that was sort of the pressure leading up that really led to needing a better solution to get people for the access to health care. so in 2010, the world changed. we got the affordable care on it. and as the congress said, it certainly is not perfect, but it certainly expanded the options considerably. and so for one thing, if they coverage more widely available, it allows states to expand medicaid, which is our medical here in california, to all low income people. so you do not have to fit into one of those categories anymore as long as your income is under limit, you are eligible for coverage through medical that is almost completely free. and then it also got rid of that free existing condition, exclusion. so what is known is the guaranteed issue provision of the aca. and it requires private health insurance plans to sell insurance to just about everyone, even if they have existing health conditions. there is some other things you have probably heard about. medical was also expanded to a certain form of cost for youth up to age 26. and most private plans are also required to covering on adults up to age 26 under their parents insurance. so all of these options together really expanded the coverage that was available to most people. the aca also took on the affordability issues. so through the tax credits and the cost sharing reductions, people can buy insurance through the health marketplaces, which is our cover california here in california, and get help with the cost of care. so that if you are lower income, you get those tax credits to help you afford the coverage that you get. and in addition, the affordable care act limits on out of pocket costs. so you can only be required to pay a certain amount in terms of your deductibles, cost sharing, co-insurance, and your pocket maximum on set reaches a certain amount of the plan has to pick up the rest. in addition, the affordable care act tried to make coverage better quality. so it requires plans to cover essential health benefits. most of the benefits that you need are not going to be covered on your plan. and that includes the benefit services which plans are required to cover without any cost sharing. so those of you who take in your child to a well-child visit or you have gone to get a mammogram or cancer screen. those services are all covered for free. in addition, plans have to meet a medical loss ratio, which means if they do not spend enough on your care and they are spending too much on their administrative costs, they have to give you a refund. so they are really required to keep their eye on the bottom line and make sure they are spending their money on your care, not on making a profit. and then of course, the aca also invested in the workplace, the work force, the healthcare workforce and in our safety net plants and a lot of jobs, healthcare jobs, to this country. and i think from my colleagues, we will talk more about that in a few minutes. so, like i said, it is not perfect. but what we are seeing now with the current proposals is that, you know, as the congress said, republicans have had a long time to come up with an alternative to the aca, but we have not really seen much yet. this week they put out a few bullet points, but it is not a fully fleshed proposal yet that we can really talk about. so i just wanted to speak briefly about some of their talking points and what it took to look like. one of the biggest things is they are going to try to take away some of those expanded cover options. so they would take away the medicaid expansion. that is our medical expansion here in california. you might go back to those days where you have to fit into a specific category if you are low income in order to get help from the state. they are also proposing to turn the medicaid program into a block grant or a per capita cap. and really what that means is they want the states to pay more for the cost of medical cap and the federal government to pay less. for those of us who live in california for a while and have seen the budget shortfalls that we face, you know, that is likely to mean just more cuts to the program overall. they are also proposing to take away the guaranteed issue, those preexisting condition exclusion protections. they say instead maybe they will put people into high risk pools or they will give them some kind of health savings account. we do not know exactly what looked like but we know that those are two plans we tried before in the 90s and early 2000s and they did not really work very well. people did not really get access to the care that they needed. then as the congresswoman mentioned, they are talking about facing the tax credits on your age, not your income. so that everyone who is 30 years old will be able to save a lot of tax credit whether you are working and making a lot of money or if you are unemployed and just kind of straight mind. and then finally they had also talked about changing some of those provisions that enhanced the quality of care. so taking away the essential health benefits protections and going back to the days when plans could just cover whatever benefits they felt like instead of the benefits that people actually need and taking away that medical loss ratio of protection so that plans can focus on maximizing their profits instead of really investing in the care that they deliver to people. we are very concerned about all of these things. my organization, the national health law program is working here in california and also at the national level in dc to try to fight those proposals. but we certainly need the help of all of you. so keep up the phone calls that you are making. keep sharing your stories about how the aca has helped you. we really appreciate all that you are doing and thank you again for the opportunity to be here today. great summary there. thank you for coming tonight and inviting me to share a little bit. i am here to try to give you a little picture of what the affordable care act did in ventura county and where we stand today as far as those who are benefiting from the program. so to explain just a real briefly background, what we are responsible to county and the human services agency is dealing with the medicaid program primarily. so that is what i will focus in on. but the aca itself has a whole plethora of ratings associated with healthcare. so you have the cover california which is the exchange programs which is one segment together, private market and we have the medicaid and the calvary california. so i will go over those briefly and what is transpired for us. the state of california did expand medicaid, the medicaid program, or one of 31 states in the nation that expanded the program. so that is important to note that not all states did do that. but that means that individuals based on their income could be eligible for medical. so the range associated with wages is that there is a demarcation of income that will make you eligible prior to the affordable care act. it is a very complex form of income and assets and various other categorical requirements in order to access health insurance. the affordable care act took away that and did it based on income and its tax full income over here, modified growth suggested income or tax household. it is now the criteria for eligibility into insurance. what the expansion did was allow working parents and jobless parents to actually go from 100% of the poverty level to 138% of the poverty level is getting eligible. and it allowed single adults, we did not have a dependent child or dependent adult to mean criteria to earn 138% of the poverty to also access health care. so that was a huge expansion in allowing individuals to access health care. and i think you did not sue ventura county but i would like to promote our health care system. you would have to leave you out of philosophy that will serve anyone that comes through our doors and we accommodate them the best possible way. so what does that mean now that these thresholds have been set and established here in ventura county? prior to aca, we had 119,000 individuals receiving medical benefits. about the last couple of years, the enrollment has increased to a number today. we are at 226,000 individuals that receive health benefits through the medical program. so that is nearly 100% increased associated with it. to give you a little demographics, about half, about 100,000 are children, 0 to 19 years old. so it is a very heavy children's access program for health care. the other, there is about 44,000 residents of ventura county that are involved in the health care of cove in california, the exchange. and so those that are not eligible for medical, meaning that they have income greater than 138% that have income between 200 and 400% are eligible for the exchange. and that is 44,000 individuals are enrolled into a commercial plan that has tax subsidies in order then to afford health care. now we can debate, i am not here to pay on the health care plans, but there is a lot of improvement that could go into those as well. just to give you, i do not want to bore you with eligibility statistics. yeah, absolutely. so we do have an hour's going to pull. i was looking for my staff on seniors. so we have individuals, we have just under just over 15,000 individuals that 65 and older that receive medical. and there is certain criteria because we do have the medicare program as well. so there is some duality associated with that program, but those that find themselves the most indigent would qualify for the medicaid program there. in addition, we have in california we have an in-house supportive services program which helps seniors maintain their living and their health within their home. and that program you have to be medical eligible for in order to benefit from that. california is very progressive in that regard of saying it is better to take care of an individual within their home in order to prevent them from going into a facility which costs much more funds and money associated with it. but all that would be impacted relative to the thresholds associated with the affordable care act and would send it a ripple associated with other systems that would be impacted. in addition, it was very important for california to well with our healthcare system in general is that the expansion allowed us to do so with federal participation. and that is the risk of a block grant right now up until this past year the federal government in the expanded population paid 100% associated with the cost of that. the state now is going to have a better greater cost associated with that year over year up until 2020 which it would be at 90% for the state. so block grant within relieved the participation from the federal level which will impact local communities very heavily on our obligations to take care of those that find themselves in need of healthcare services. so that gives us an overview just real quickly just to let you know in california we started at a pre-aca at 8.6 million individuals on medical and that has grown to about 13.4 million statewide. so it is a significant number that would be impacted within change that occurs. so those are some of the statistics i will get into the details if you want later on criteria associated with the individual's access in healthcare. thank you. we really discuss it in those terms. and i know we can discuss it. i can discuss what is like living with a kid that is like one diabetes for days. so i think it is very, very difficult and it is unending. it really is something that my son deals with throughout the day, throughout the night and until there is a cure for the rest of his life. it is a deal we have had several hospitalizations. i see you visits. even this one gets more complicated when you have to have one diabetes. and before the aca we did have coverage and because we maintained our coverage and he was a minor, he did come under our coverage. but we were constantly fighting our insurance company for up to 10 matters coverage with individual policies. our high rates were very large and only. our deductibles were very high. separate deductibles for overall medical, for prescription drugs, for medical devices. our worst year was 2013. we routinely spend $30,000 plus for our medical. and those were checks we are writing out for people who want to know we do not qualify for any sort of coverage. we are not wealthy by any means. however, we do not qualify for any coverage. any subsidies for any thing. and so these are checks that we have written out over the last 10 years in particular. our worst year was 2013. medical spending for that year exceeded $70,000. i guess they are lining in that was we did get to do a deduction because it is seen in 7% of our impact. but quite honestly, we had a different tour of retirement. we had a different and my son's college fund. i think helen's the aca came along when it did because we kind of belong like that. i do not know a lot of families that cannot belong with that sort of spending annually. but i think under the aca, it still expensive. our medical spending exceeded $23,000 for the past year. 2016, those were checks that we actually wrote out. however, i could plan for it. i knew that we had coverage that i put the lie upon and that i could budget very effectively going forward. and now suddenly, that is really been ripped out from under us because the reality is we are looking at an environment now in which there is no coverage for preexisting conditions or at least for the self-employed. i am speaking specifically for self-employed people. for those who are lucky enough to get it from their employers, they do not face those same restrictions. that is for self-employed forced to buy on the individual market. the idea of a high risk pool is something that i reject completely as being effective coverage. my husband was under a high risk pool for a couple of years. it is not meaningful coverage especially for someone who has a disease like type 1 diabetes that is very expensive to maintain. for instance, his insulin expenses a lot on my call of cds. and with a higher deductible, i just wanted to know what our other pockets could potentially be. and his insulin needs a loan of $1,200 a month. that does not include any sort of medical coverage. it does not include his pump supplies that he has to reinsert into his body every three days. and i would like to say that whoever needs the affordable care act affordable really needs to go back to market at school because the most affordable health care in this country is so expensive for everybody. like i said, i have not been to real distance for 24, $1,000 this year or 2016. but like i said, it is something i know i can rely upon it, i can budget for it, and i can do what it takes to get those, to get that money together for our family. right now, it is self-employed that i am most vulnerable. and these, well, i am sorry, i say that in the courses people who receive medicaid and everything else. i am talking about people who are actually paying full ticket though. they are self-employed, and i am sure you all know people who in your neighborhood, in your families who are self-employed. and again, it is not a political party. it is just a reality in the economy. sometimes by choice, sometimes not by choice. and we need to be able to have accessible, meaningful health insurance coverage. i know that right now, the individual markets are already being destabilized. these policies are supposed to be submitted to the state of california. i believe in the next six weeks in march. how can they? there is no, they do not even insurance companies do not know what they are going to have to cover. and so of course, they are rather less than what they would need to. and so it really is critical that we can talk about improving the affordable care. hey, i have got a list of improvements we can make starting by having emergency care doctors covered under the policy. so i believe california has made an improvement on that. just two years ago, my son was headed to the icu. we had to get him down to the children's hospital. and they told us if you cannot get him here quick enough, pull over to your nearest emergency room. and we had to. and my son's lying there with two different lines in his arms and everything else. and i am arguing with the er doctor saying you are not covered under our anthem policy. we are just trying to get down to the children's hospital. you need to get us there. and having him informed me to worry being dka when i tell you better because not enough insulin in their bodies. one of the top 10 leading causes of death. and i can assure you that you will be covered for this visit. no one there can have this conversation. any emergency room. this is an incidentally effects my family and every other family that is out there. and i am sure that the hospital's care is a human right. not a hundred hundred. and there is only one risk pool. americans. those are the people who need to be covered. one risk pool of over 300 million people. it should not matter if you work for a large employer. a small employer. have a government employer. our inventory. there is one group of insured here. and we are all americans. and i would really like to have a national conversation in which the political elements are toned down. and we can have reasonable discussions because i know other people.