thank you, senator. mr. morsele, as we all watch ukrainian soldiers and ukrainian civilians respond to russia who are demonstrating really great acts of heroism. i am reminded of all the heroes that you represent and who have fought bravely for our freedoms. and today i just want to say thank you. the first question i have is in your oral testimony, mr. morsele, you stress the importance of the caregiver program, which i could not agree with you more. i recently introduced the elizabeth doll home and community-based services for veterans and caregivers act of 2022 to provide all veterans the ability to be at home for their care when they needed. and to stay away from institutionalized nursing home care over half of the veteran population today who used the va are over 65 years of age. so i was wondering how you felt about this bill that i just introduced. thank you for that question. and i will yield to our legislative director, ms. ela. thank you, combswomen. excellent bill, dav is very appreciative and supports the bill lots of provisions in there that are going to make a real difference in veterans lives. we need to make sure that veterans do have those home-based primary care services to continue to be able to live in their homes as they age to the extent possible. and we need to make sure that our aging veteran population, which is really going to increase over the next 20 years that va's prepared both with the internal va services that will be needed, the inpatient community living centers, our veteran state homes, as well as that home-based directed care. so we really appreciate the hard work from you and your staff on that issue and a very thoughtful bill and happy to have supported it. thank you, ms. ela. and thank you for your leadership. i will stick with questions to you since i have very long time. i know, mr. marshall talked a lot about and stressed a lot around women veterans sexual harassment, mst, and the need for all of that. can you talk a little bit about where we still need to go with regards to women veterans? i know i only have about 20 seconds left, but if you could just highlight a few. i will make this quick then. certainly, we appreciate all of those efforts that you have made in this regard made a huge difference as has both of these committees. and i think moving forward, we are seeing progress with regard to the zero tolerance policy that the secretary has put forth and letters that have starting to go out to every veteran i have received when myself for those that use the va health care system. that is a great first step. we are going to need congress to continue to do oversight. this is not been a long-standing issue. so we will be though behind you to make it happen. thank you, mr. ela. i am going to give back senator. thank you. senator blumenthal.