dr. speaker, i rise this morning to share the story of judith and her daughter, k.c. like all mothers, judith only wants the best for her children. to live a full and purposeful life, the ability to pursue their dreams and reach their utmost potential. however, at a very young age of 11, k.c. was formally diagnosed with bipolar disorder. this health condition causes k.c. to have uncontrollable mood swings, to perceive reality differently, to see and hear things that are not there, and to sometimes even become disconnected with reality altogether. it has taken enormous emotional and physical toll on k.c. and her family. as a mom of two kids, i cannot imagine the difficulties that judith has faced. some nights, judith had to hold her daughter tightly all night long to help her through her psychosis and her panic. not to mention the emergency hospitalizations, living with this condition has been a life-long struggle for k.c. and for her family. it requires a combination of daily medications, weekly psychiatric treatments, hospital visits, and constant support in medical care. and that is only half the story. without this intensive treatment, k.c. would simply be unable to function. with it, she has the tools she needs to live a healthy and productive life. when k.c. was younger, she was covered by a family health care policy. but even then, judith needed to pinch pennies and barely scrape by due to the high cost of insurance copays and deductibles, costing her $13 to $15,000 per month. to try to keep up with her never-ending medical bills, judith used all of her retirement savings. when k.c. reached adulthood, she was bumped off the family insurance plan. fortunately, k.c. qualified for health care coverage through the aca medicaid expansion. without it, she and her family would have had no viable alternative. the aca provided k.c. with access to reliable, consistent medical care that has been vital to her well-being and has allowed her to thrive. and i am very happy to share that k.c. finished her bachelor's degree in may. and is now pursuing her master's in counseling psychology. with her own struggles as her inspiration, she decided to make psychology her life's work. and judith says that k.c. is now the person that everybody goes to any time they have a problem or need comfort. without the health care coverage that k.c. obtained from the affordable care act, she would never have been able to obtain private health insurance due to her preexisting conditions and rigorous health needs. with the affordable care act, judith was able to see her daughter realize her dreams. i know all of you who are parents want the same for your children. but when i hear my colleagues on the other side of the aisle talk about eliminating k.c.'s health care coverage, i get a pit at the bottom of my stomach. this is not about politics. this is about people's lives. this is about k.c.'s life and judith's life and the lives of 20 million americans who have gained health care coverage because of the affordable care act. today i rise to speak up for k.c. and for judith and for the millions of other americans whose lives would be put in jeopardy if we repeal the aca without an adequate replacement. i urge my republican colleagues to reconsider this reckless repeal that would throw our entire health care system into chaos and take life saving care away from those who need it the most.