[congressional record volume 169, number 29 (monday, february 13, 2023)] [senate] [page s338] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] cloture motion mr. schumer. madam president, i send a cloture motion to the desk. the acting president pro tempore. the cloture motion having been presented under rule xxii, the chair directs the clerk to read the motion. the bill clerk read as follows: cloture motion we, the undersigned senators, in accordance with the provisions of rule xxii of the standing rules of the senate, do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the nomination of executive calendar no. 6, maria araujo kahn, of connecticut, to be united states circuit judge for the second circuit. charles e. schumer, richard j. durbin, margaret wood hassan, brian schatz, tina smith, elizabeth warren, tim kaine, ron wyden, patty murray, richard blumenthal, chris van hollen, martin heinrich, jack reed, christopher a. coons, alex padilla, christopher murphy, sheldon whitehouse, benjamin l. cardin. mr. schumer. and finally, i ask unanimous consent that the mandatory quorum calls for the cloture motions filed today, february 13, be waived. the acting president pro tempore. without objection, it is so ordered. mr. schumer. madam president, now, for my remarks, first and foremost, i begin today as happy as i could possibly be. last week, my daughter alison and her wife celebrated the birth of little henry-- their first child, my third grandchild. the tie i am wearing today is the very same tie i wore on the day my daughter and her wife got married. the last time i wore this same tie on the floor of the senate was the day the respect for marriage act passed the senate. so it is not only a great tie, but it is a really great day, and it symbolizes a whole lot. i want to thank everyone for their messages of support. i am pleased to report both moms and the baby are doing just great. he is such a little cutie. few things put this job in perspective quite like being a grandparent. i have often said that after my first grandkid noah was born--it was about 2 weeks later--i took a bike ride through the wetlands near coney island. it is on the southern shore of brooklyn. the atlantic ocean laps up on it, and it is beautiful. i love that ride, but 2 weeks after noah was born, as i was riding, it hit me like a bolt: will noah one day get to enjoy this beautiful, beautiful bike path like i have? because if the ocean rises even a few inches, this bike path will be gone. having grandkids like that reminds you of what we are fighting for: a better life for them, a better globe for them, a better world for them. it is a motivation unlike any other. well, i could go on, but suffice it to say that today chuck schumer is one happy grandparent, and i am grateful for everyone's kind words over the past few days.