marshall, marshall, marshall, marshall, marshall, marshall, marshall. marshall, marshall, marshall. thank you all so incredibly much. i tell you what, i think the entire country has heard tennessee loud and clear. you know, i think that you have seen a really good message. tennessee, i am just going to come serve it at the us senator who is going to take tennessee values and puts up to work for you in washington dc. and i tell you what, we could not have done this. absolutely, could not have done it without all of you. i know you want to keep this country moving on the right track and i am so incredibly grateful for all of you who have stood with us, who have stayed strong, who have worked on the get-out of both. and we appreciate everything that you have done. thank you so very much. i do have just a few specific thank yous that i want to say. and first of all, i want to say thank you to the voters of tennessee for... thank you for believing in me and for hearing our message and for giving me your vote and for allowing me to be the first woman ever... and just imagine this, it is a conservative woman to vote. and you know, one person does not win a campaign. it takes the host of volunteers. and so many of you have done that. our volunteers not drawn over 1,562,000 doors. you made... you made 3 million phone calls and countless prayers. and i thank you all for those prayers. you have written notes. you have posted us an event. and we have had the most massive, massive grassroots effort that we have ever seen. and so we thank you all for that. i also want to say thank you to our staff and our interns. they have stayed focused. they have stayed committed. and i really want to say thank you to our campaign leadership team, ward baker. kevin gov. abby, taylor ferrell, amy haths. i thank each of you. and for the good work that you have done, our entire team. there are two special friends that i do want to say a thank you to. jim haslam and steve smith, today to share our right now. they are truly great leaders for our state. and they have been great leaders for our campaign. i say a special thank you to the entire haslam family. and to the governor, the empress. and to bill lee and maria. we have so enjoyed campaigning with bill and maria. of course, maria taught our son and was our daughter's discipleship group leader. so we have known them well for years. to my family and my brother and sister are here. my mother, mimi is here. and of course, you have chad and hillary and paul mary morgan. and of course, you have jack and chase, the stars of our show. and my husband, chuck. and please spend our most ardent campaigner. and we have an anniversary coming up on friday. so i know he is going to. and to enjoy that this is behind. i want to say a thank you also to each and every one of you who has helped support our family. call text messages, words of encouragement. we thank you to phil brattison and his team. i want to congratulate them on a hard fought race. and i hope that they know. i hope they know that my door is always open. and that to their supporters, i hope that they will work with us on better tomorrow's for our children and our grandchildren. now. so look future. now you do not have to worry if you are going to call me congressman or congresswoman or congresswoman. now. senator will do. thank you. thank you john. yes, that is great. i tell you, john and gratian and the entertainment tonight, i thought this is i love this. i was coming through the hallway and i heard gratian with red heck mom and i said, that is one of my favorites. i love it. derral waldorf is here. derral did a great job. so many of you have said they love that commercial. hi, a couple more things that i do want to just do want to say. let me tell you this. i think one of the things we learned from this campaign is tennesseeans want to make certain that they have leaders who are not going to kick a can down the road on the issues that affect our nation, that affect our children. they want leaders who are going to tackle the big problems and they want leaders who are going to be there to work with the president and keep this nation on the path to prosperity that we are on today. i want you to know i am going to be one of those leaders and i want to say a special thank you to the president and to the vice president for this event. the interest in this campaign, their support, i have already talked to vice president pence and mrs. pence and they are really excited. they are excited for our family. they are excited for our state. they are excited for our country. and just as i said on day one of this campaign, i was running to take those values that we share and to work in dc, all the things that you want to see done, more constitutional judges, lower taxes, less regulation. and i am making certain that we protect life that we defend the second amendment, that get federal spending under control, and that we support our troops and our veterans and board camels, and to make certain that we build the wall. i know a lot of our law enforcement are here tonight and they have been so supportive of me. i thank them for the fraternal order of police endorsement and i got to tell you they remind me regularly if we do not secure that southern border, it turns every state into a border state, every town into a border town. so you have my command on that. we want to make certain that you all know we are going to continue to do what we do. work every day, as i say, i get up and i fight for what i call the big fight, faith, family, freedom, hope, and opportunity. and i have asked you to do this campaign to stand with me tonight is no different. i ask that you stand with me as we work on these issues for our state, for our nation. we know that we are going to be going to work early tomorrow on these issues. i want to thank you for the opportunity to use the transition begins. i look forward to being your senator. god bless tennessee. god bless you. thank you.