campaign leadership team, boardmaker, ready to go! cheers! cheers! thank you, bill. thank you, matt. i thank each of you. and for the good work that you have done, our entire team. there are some special friends that are doing what we say is thank you too. jim allen, one of the best teams in the care of the team. they are great leaders from our state. and they have been great leaders for our campaign. i say a special thank you to the entire muslim family. and to the governor, the emperor, and to bill lee and laria. we have so enjoyed campaigning with bill and maria. of course, maria taught our son and was our daughter's discipleship group leader. so we have known them well for years. to my family and my brother and sister are here. my mother, mimi, is here. and of course, you have chad and hillary and paul mary morgan. and of course, you have got jack and chase, the stars of our show. and my husband, chuck. and... please, ben, our most ardent campaigner. and we have an anniversary coming up on friday. so i know he is going to enjoy this. and i want to say a thank you also to each and every one of you who has helped support our family. call text messages, words of encouragement. we thank you. to phil bratison and his team, i want to congratulate them on a hard fought race. and i hope that they know. i hope they know that my door is always open. and that to their supporters, i hope that they will work with us on better tomorrow's for our children and our grandchildren. now, to look future, now you do not have to worry if you are going to call me congressman or congresswoman or congress lady. now, senator will do. thank you, john. thank you, senator. thank you, john. yes, that is great. i tell you, john and gretchen and the entertainment tonight, i thought this is, i love this. i was coming through the hallway and i heard gretchen with redneck mama and i said, that is one of my favorites. i love it. darryl waldorf is here. darryl did a great job. so many of you have said they love that commercial. and i, a couple more things that i do want to just do want to say. let me tell you this. i think one of the things we learned from this campaign is tennessee wants to make certain that they have leaders who are not going to kick a can down the road on the issues that affect our nation. they want leaders who are going to tackle the big problems and they want leaders who are going to be there to work with the president and keep this nation on the path to prosperity that we are on today. and i want you to know i am going to be one of those leaders and i want to say a special thank you to the president and to the vice president for this event. they are interested in this campaign, their support. i have already talked to vice president pence and mrs. pence and they are really excited. they are excited for our family. they are excited for our state. they are excited for our country. and just as i said on day one of this campaign, i was running to take those values that we share and to work in dc, all the things that you want to see done. more constitutional judges, lower taxes, less regulation. and i want you to know that we are making certain that we protect life, that we defend the second amendment, that we get federal spending under control, and that we support our troops and our veterans and support them all. and to make certain that we build the wall. i know a lot of our law enforcement are here tonight and they have been so supportive of me. i thank them for the fraternal order of police endorsement and i got to tell you they remind me regularly. if we do not secure that southern border, it turns every state into a border state, every town, into a border town. so you have my commandment on that. we want to make certain that you all know we are going to continue to do what we do. work every day, as i say, i get up and i fight for what i call the big five, faith, family, freedom, hope, and opportunity. and i have asked you to do this campaign to stand with me tonight is no different. i ask that you stand with me as we work on these issues. for our state, for our nation, we know that we are going to be going to work early tomorrow on these issues. the transition began. i look forward to being your senator. god bless tennessee. god bless you. thank you all.