well, the president fresh off a rally in tennessee tonight, drumming up support for senate hopeful republican marshall blackburn. she is hoping to replace outgoing senator bob corcor and a race that is considered for now, a toss-up. she loves your state. she loves your country. she is going to win. marshall blackburn. fresh off the stage with the president congressman, marshall blackburn joins us live. great to have you with us tonight. good to be with you. thank you. okay, so you are obviously facing a man who is a democrat, who is a very popular former governor. he is gotten even praises i mentioned earlier from. one of your republican colleagues on the senate side, the man you hope to replace senator bob corcor. a lot of folks have nice things to say about him. it is a tough race, tough polling. so where do you go from here? where we go is right to work. and that is what we have been doing every day, shannon, just working hard to get out our message and to earn every single vote. and today was a great day for us. we had a fundraiser. we had a rally that was a packed house at nashville's municipal auditorium. and we are looking forward to continuing to build that energy and build that network that is necessary to win this race. i know that you have been confronted by women out there on the campaign trail who do not understand your support of president trump. they do not support him. the governor, he actually pulls better with women in this race than you do. what do you attribute that to? and how will you try to close that gap? the way you close that gap is pointing to the fact that women every day, donald trump's numbers every day improved with women because women know he is working hard to make their lives better. look at what has happened with the economy, with wage increases, with job opportunities. these are all things that are important. the economy jobs, that economic security issue is the number one issue with women. women also are incredibly supportive of what he is doing when it comes to the issue of immigration, securing the border, ending illegal entry of gangs, of drugs, of sex trafficking. so those are places of focus. it is a way for us to build bridges with many women who are independent and democrats. and i will tell you, i have republicans, independents, and democrats all who are active in our campaign and who are supporting me. let us talk about another big issue. i just talked there about the supreme court deciding it would not get in the way of this arkansas law that requires any clinics who are using this two-drug protocol to perform abortions, to have some connection with a doctor that would then have hospital admitting privileges. in the case that there was some kind of complication, two-plan-parenthood clinics there basically say they will not be able to perform abortions in arkansas. i know that you headed up the house select panel that was looking into allegations against plan-parenthood. but what do you make of their allegation that women are going to be left with basically almost no option there in arkansas? based on what happened at the supreme court? i feel like that part of what you are hearing from plan-parenthood is a little bit of an overreach. what arkansas has done and what the court has agreed with is if there should be additional protections for women and for unborn children. and this is something that arkansas decided they wanted to put in place in their state laws and it will go into effect. this is what plan-parenthood tweeted today. the fight is far from over. this law cannot and must not stand. we will not stop fighting for every person's right to access safe legal abortion, hashtag stop the bands. it is clear they continue to, they plan to continue the legal fight. that is playing out in the lower courts. a number of similar laws around the country are being challenged. and there are split decisions with the courts. i mean, where do you think we are going with as far as this issue ending up at the supreme court again on a larger scale? well, and that is exactly the right way to look at it. where does it take us from here? and what we hear is if these groups are for safe legal rare, then they should want some protections and restrictions that are going to be there to help inform women, to help educate women, to protect women, and to make certain that they are going to be safe, to make certain that there is that relationship with a physician, with a healthcare provider. to me, that just makes sense that you would want that for it to be the safest possible condition for these women. well, not long ago the supreme court struck down some similar regulations in the state of texas. so we will continue to track this case as well as many others that are out there. congresswoman, thanks for making time. good to see you. good to be with you. thanks shannon.