[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 81 (Wednesday, May 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Page S2864]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Unanimous Consent Request--Authority for Committee to Meet
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, today our friends across the aisle have
decided to hold up Senate committee meetings. Because the Democrats
object to the dismissal of James Comey from the FBI, they have chosen
to play politics and prevent scheduled hearings from occurring. That
means everyone who has taken time to fly to Washington, DC, to testify
before Congress--per our request--and update us on important issues
that face the Nation will not be heard.
One of those scheduled hearings is in the Energy and Natural
Resources Subcommittee on Water and Power, of which I am a member. This
hearing was going to investigate the Dry-Redwater and the Musselshell-
Judith Rural Water Systems. This is a critically important issue to
Montana.
This hearing was going to focus on water from Circle, MT. These are
water samples from different families in the Circle, MT, area. This is
from the Arensons' tap. This yellow-tinted water here is from the
Goods' tap. This cloudy sample here is from the Hances' tap.
These are all from Circle, MT. This is from the Carlsons' tap. You
probably can't see it--perhaps on camera and on the floor--but there is
particulate in here, floating, something you wouldn't want to drink.
This is water from the Rosaaens' tap. These samples all came from a
small town in Eastern Montana, Circle, MT, and the image here to my
left is from Roundup, MT. This unacceptable, unclean tap water is in
the homes of Montanans and North Dakotans right now as we speak.
The mayor of Harlowton, MT, a town of about 1,000 in rural central
Montana, is here today to testify. I met with him just yesterday. He
came to our Montana coffee this morning. He spent over $1,000 on a
flight. He spent almost $600 on hotel accommodations, not to mention
the cost of other incidentals. Now the Democrats will not let him
speak.
Why? As the chairman of the Senate Western Caucus, it is shameful--as
other witnesses have flown and spent thousands of dollars--to prevent
improving water quality in our States. The Arizona witness, for
example, spent $2,400 and 3 days out of the office to come back and
testify today. The North Dakota witness spent $1,300.
Yes, the FBI needs to regain the trust of the American people. In
fact, Senator Schumer on November 2 said: ``I do not have confidence in
[Comey] any longer,'' and on that very same day, House Minority Leader
Nancy Pelosi said: ``Maybe he's not in the right job.''
But this water, as we can see these samples in front of me, has
nothing to do with the FBI. There are over 36,000 Americans spread
across Montana and North Dakota without access to clean water. If the
mayor of Flint, MI, flew here to testify about the quality and
challenges facing their water system, no one would have blocked that
hearing. Frankly, this is just another sign of the marginalization of
rural Montana and rural America. I was sent here to fight for rural
Montana, to stand for rural America, and that is what I will continue
to do. This hearing needs to happen today.
Mr. President, I have a request for the Energy Committee to meet at
2:30 p.m. today. I ask unanimous consent that the committee be allowed
to meet.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
The Senator from Hawaii.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, these are
not usual times. Representing the State of Hawaii, of course, we care
about clean water. So with all due respect to my colleague from
Montana, we understand the importance of this issue to the people of
his State. However, as I said, these are very unusual times, and, on
the President's decision to fire Director James Comey in this manner,
under this pretext, and at this time, it is also a total disservice to
the American people.
This attempt, intended to derail and disrupt the FBI's ongoing
investigation into Russia's attempt to disrupt or interfere with our
democracy and the Trump team's ties to those attempts, should be a
matter of national concern, not a Republican or Democratic concern. We
need a bipartisan call for a special prosecutor who will conduct an
impartial, thorough investigation, untainted by political
consideration.
Therefore, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, if I could respond to my colleague from
Hawaii.
The folks who have been derailed today are the men and women who have
traveled thousands of miles to be here from very small communities
across our country. They have taken time away from work and their
families to be here to show our committees what is going on in rural
America and the unacceptable quality of water.
Water is a basic need. We have water samples here that I think would
be shocking to most Members in this body. I am just saddened to see
that Democrats are going to derail these hearings this afternoon. Yes,
let's have a fight about the FBI and the firing of Comey. We can have a
good-spirited debate about that. But why are we preventing these folks
from rural America, who have traveled thousands of miles, to testify
today at our request.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from North Dakota.