[Congressional Record Volume 164, Number 162 (Monday, October 1, 2018)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6406-S6408]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, I come to the floor this afternoon to speak
about an announcement that occurred last night that an agreement had
been reached to modernize the North America Free Trade Agreement. The
new agreement, named the ``United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement'' or
``USMCA,'' will bring this trade pact between our countries into the
21st century.
Over the last year and a half, I have been working with my colleagues
and others in the administration to make clear to President Trump,
Ambassador Lighthizer, Secretary Ross, and my Senate colleagues of the
importance of trade and exports--whether that was in meetings with the
President and his Cabinet officials, through my subcommittee
chairmanships, through speeches here on the Senate floor, or with many
of my constituents in Kansas whose livelihoods depend on trade.
I have written numerous letters to U.S. agricultural leaders and
various agricultural organizations, followed up by speaking engagements
across the country at the annual meetings of national farm and ranch
groups to rally producers to fight to preserve trade relationships with
Canada and Mexico.
I have spent a lot of time in Kansas at nearly 100 townhall meetings
in the last 2 years attended by various agriculture and commodity
groups.
I have talked to local media where folks are particularly interested
at home about the issue of NAFTA and trade.
In each of these instances, I was clear that withdrawing from NAFTA
without a replacement agreement would be devastating to the Kansas
economy. While NAFTA modernization was due to reflect changes in the
economy since its enactment almost 25 years ago, the agreement has been
critical to growth in agricultural exports and has created countless
manufacturing jobs in my State.
As a result of NAFTA, Canada and Mexico are two export markets that
account for approximately 39 percent of total exports from Kansas. We,
as Kansans, sell more aerospace parts and products to Canada than
anywhere in the world and more food and commodities to Mexico than
anywhere in the world.
Importantly, the new agreement includes all three countries. As I
conveyed to the President when the bilateral U.S.-Mexico agreement was
announced, a final deal without Canada would be a significant step
backward from the agreement in place today. I applaud President Trump
for taking these concerns seriously and, while engaging in tough
negotiations, recognizing the benefit of all three nations being
included in the final agreement.
The road ahead for this new agreement will not be easy. I am
carefully reviewing the agreement's details and look forward to
additional economic analysis on the impact it would have--particularly
on Kansas but on farmers, ranchers, and manufacturers across our
country and, equally of importance, the impact upon their employees.
Once the President signs the agreement, it will be up to Congress to
consider and vote to approve the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement--most
likely next year. However, today farmers and ranchers are breathing a
sigh of relief, as the announcement brings greater certainty at a time
when producers are facing extended periods of low commodity prices.
Agricultural conditions in our State, due to drought and due to
commodity prices and the uncertainty of export markets, are a
significant challenge.
Simply put, we produce more in this country than we can consume.
Farmers, agricultural leaders, and commodity groups spend their own
time and money developing export markets. We have many checkoff
programs designed to encourage the sale of agriculture commodities from
Kansas and the United States around the globe. Over a span of years and
sometimes even decades, U.S. producers have built relationships with
customers around the world based upon our ability to consistently
deliver high-quality commodities at competitive prices. This agreement
ought to inspire confidence in our purchasers in Mexico and Canada, as
well as around the world, that America will continue to be a reliable
supplier of food and agricultural commodities.
Under the new agreement, all agricultural commodities that currently
have duty-free access under NAFTA will continue. In addition, U.S.
dairy producers who had a long, difficult time with Canada's supply
management system will enjoy greater market access to the Canadian
market.
A trilateral agreement is also critical for aerospace, auto, and
other manufacturers in Kansas who rely on an integrated North American
supply chain. Withdrawing from NAFTA or excluding Canada from the
agreement would have disrupted markets and cost Kansas jobs.
I am hopeful that negotiations will continue with Canada and Mexico
to resolve section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs that have raised
prices for Kansas manufacturers and their customers, as well as
resulted in retaliation against U.S. producers, including pork
producers in Kansas.
While I come to the floor to commend an agreement being reached on
modernizing NAFTA, we have a lot of work to do to resolve current trade
disputes while building new export markets.
The trade dispute with China has harmed farmers and ranchers when
they can least afford it. Producers have faced low prices and declining
income for the better part of a decade. I remain concerned that if we
lose major export markets, we will see a prolonged downturn in the
prices instead of the recovery that is so desperately needed and
desired.
[[Page S6407]]
Since the start of the trade dispute with China, soybean prices have
fallen over $2 per bushel, which equates to Kansas farmers and grain
handlers losing out on $378 million of possible revenue solely on
soybeans.
Kansas is the top sorghum-producing State in the Nation. About half
of the sorghum produced in the country is exported, with 90 percent of
exports previously going to China. It is estimated that the decline in
sorghum prices due to China's tariffs will result in about $87 of lost
revenue per acre planted in Kansas.
I have held two hearings to review the administration's trade
policies in the Appropriations subcommittee that I chair--Commerce,
Justice, Science--including a hearing with Ambassador Lighthizer. These
hearings offered me and my colleagues the opportunity to express
directly to the administration the importance of trade and for me to
express the importance of trade to Kansas. As chairman of the CJS
Subcommittee, I look forward to continuing to engage on the analysis
and consideration of the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement and other trade
issues.
The ability of Kansans to make a living depends on the opportunity to
sell around the world what we grow and produce and manufacture, and I
will continue to urge in the direction of more trade, not less. I will
also keep working to meet with farmers, ranchers, manufacturers,
commodities groups, agricultural leaders, and organizations to make
sure their voices are heard, and I will continue to be a component of
the ongoing work to promote free and fair trade.
I end my remarks by noting my appreciation to the administration
officials for working to make certain these markets remain available to
Kansas farmers, ranchers, and manufacturers, providing them with some
much needed certainty. I will further analyze the details of this
agreement, but I am pleased to say that last night's announcement is
clearly a positive development. I thank the administration for their
pursuit of a better NAFTA agreement and a conclusion that includes all
three countries.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Moran). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, last week, the Senate Judiciary Committee
heard testimony from Dr. Christine Blasey Ford and Judge Brett
Kavanaugh about Dr. Ford's account of an attack on her by Judge
Kavanaugh and a friend when they were all teenagers.
Dr. Ford acquitted herself with grace and courage in her recounting
of the terrifying experience that has had a lasting effect on her life.
In his own testimony, Judge Kavanaugh dropped the polite veneer he
presented at his confirmation hearing when he complimented all of the
Senators he had met with and had told the committee ``the Supreme Court
must never be viewed as a partisan institution.'' That was then. Last
Thursday, he launched into a partisan political screed that
contradicted everything he had ever professed to believe about the way
judges should behave. He said: ``This whole two-week effort has been a
calculated and orchestrated political hit, fueled with apparent pent-up
anger about President Trump and the 2016 election, a fear that has been
unfairly stoked about my judicial record, revenge on behalf of the
Clintons, and millions of dollars in money from outside left-wing
opposition groups.''
It reads like a fever dream, a paranoid fantasy. It is simply not
true. It arguably violated the Code of Conduct for United States Judges
that binds him as a sitting judge on the Federal appeals court for the
DC Circuit.
Dr. Ford's own words undercut Judge Kavanaugh's assertion that a vast
leftwing conspiracy is out to get him. In her deeply moving testimony,
Dr. Ford said: ``I thought it was my civic duty to relay the
information I had about Mr. Kavanaugh's conduct so that those
considering his nomination would know about this assault.''
She went on: ``My hope was that providing the information
confidentially would be sufficient to allow the Senate to consider Mr.
Kavanaugh's serious misconduct without having to make myself, my
family, or anyone's family vulnerable to the personal attacks and
invasions of privacy we have faced since my name became public.''
Dr. Ford was trying to do her civic duty. She was not motivated by
revenge on anyone's behalf. She had no part in any organized
opposition. She was not fueled by pent-up anger or resentment. In
deciding to come forward, Dr. Ford was just a person who thought that
if she could only let the President know what Brett Kavanaugh did to
her, he would choose someone else.
Yet Kavanaugh attacked and tried to turn Dr. Ford's honest effort
into some sort of a dark, ugly ambush. At least he didn't accuse Dr.
Ford of being part of the alleged conspiracy that sought to derail his
nomination. In fact, when Senator Booker asked Judge Kavanaugh if he
blamed Dr. Ford for a coordinated effort against him, Judge Kavanaugh
said he bore Dr. Ford no ill will and that people in the hearing room,
not Dr. Ford, were against him.
We all saw something about Judge Kavanaugh's temperament and
character that day that should disqualify him from serving on the
Supreme Court of the United States. He was angry. He was belligerent.
He was partisan. He went on the attack against the Senators who were
questioning him.
These are not qualities we look for in a Supreme Court Justice or in
a judge for that matter. But don't take it from me; listen to Judge
Kavanaugh himself. In 2016, in the Catholic University Law Review, he
wrote about the importance of judges steering clear of politics. He
told his readers that ``a good judge, like a good umpire, cannot act as
a partisan.'' He said that while it is good for some judges to come
with a background in politics or policy, ``federal judges have to check
any prior political allegiances at the door. You have to shed them.''
Based on Judge Kavanaugh's testimony last week, it certainly doesn't
sound like he has shed his partisan convictions and connections.
In the same law review article, Judge Kavanaugh wrote:
To be a good judge and a good umpire, it's critical to have
the proper demeanor. It's important to . . . keep our
emotions in check and be calm amidst the storm.
He is not wrong. Indeed, the Code of Conduct for United States Judges
backs him up.
Canon 2 of the code reads:
A Judge Should Avoid Impropriety and the Appearance of
Impropriety in All Activities. . . . A judge should respect
and comply with the law and should act at all times in a
manner that promotes public confidence in the integrity and
impartiality of the judiciary.
It further explains in commentary:
An appearance of impropriety occurs when reasonable minds .
. . would conclude that the judge's honesty, integrity,
impartiality, temperament, or fitness to serve as a judge is
impaired. Public confidence in the judiciary is eroded by
irresponsible or improper conduct by judges.
Canon 3 explains that ``a judge should be faithful to, and maintain
professional competence in, the law and should not be swayed by
partisan interests, public clamor, or fear of criticism.''
We need to consider the rules and norms that argue against the kind
of intemperate behavior we saw from Judge Kavanaugh because of the
allegations brought against him by several sources, all of which
deserve a full and fair investigation by the FBI.
I was heartened to see Senators Flake and Coons both in agreement to
hold off on a floor vote for at least a week while the supplemental
background investigation can be completed to look into these
allegations. Since the agreement, questions have arisen about the exact
nature of that investigation. Is it limited? If so, how? Will all leads
be followed, or will the FBI be hamstrung in some way by instructions
from the White House?
In the ensuing firestorm, there has been a lot of debate about
whether the FBI investigation will be credible and professional and not
a perfunctory effort. There are some indications now that the FBI will
be allowed to do its job. I hope that will be the case. I expect the
FBI to exhaust all possible avenues of investigation that are relevant
as to whether Judge Kavanaugh had a pattern of drinking that resulted
[[Page S6408]]
in aggression and belligerence toward women.
Some have said that Judge Kavanaugh deserves the benefit of the doubt
and that unless Dr. Ford's account can be proven, he should be
confirmed, but that confuses the issue. No one is entitled to be on the
Supreme Court. The burden should be on Judge Kavanaugh to show he is
fit for the job.
Now the Republicans' hired gun prosecutor, whom they hid behind while
Dr. Ford was questioned, has published a memo in which she concludes
that she could not bring a case based on the evidence heard at the
second hearing. Frankly, this conclusion is meaningless. I am sure that
in her previous job as a specialist in sex crimes, she would never have
proceeded to a trial before an investigation, and she would not have
excluded key witnesses. There was no investigation. Key witnesses were
not called. I hope this is not the way she would prepare a case.
I have said many times that Democrats didn't need to manufacture
reasons to oppose Judge Kavanaugh's elevation to the Supreme Court.
Based on his record, his opinions and dissents, his academic writings,
and his speeches, I have concluded that he will not be a fair and
objective Justice of the Supreme Court. His views on reproductive
rights, Native rights, on legal protections for workers, consumers, and
the environment, not to mention his very broad views of Presidential
protections, are all of deep concern to me.
Now that we have heard Dr. Ford's account and have seen Judge
Kavanaugh's angry and combative reaction, it is evident that he should
not serve and should not be confirmed to the Supreme Court. We can do
better, and the American people deserve better.
I yield the floor.
____________________