[Congressional Record Volume 165, Number 177 (Wednesday, November 6, 2019)]
[Senate]
[Page S6428]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Unanimous Consent Request--S. Res. 408
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, if you work for the Federal Government,
you work for the people. You have a duty by law to come forward to
report misconduct, fraud, misdemeanors, and other crimes going on in
government.
This duty has been on the books since 1778. Why? Because people
working in government are in a pretty good position to see when
something is not right in their workplace.
We want a government that is doing right by us.
It is not easy for whistleblowers to come forward to report
wrongdoing in government. That is why we have laws that protect a
whistleblower from intimidation, discrimination, and retaliation, and
laws that protect their identity.
On August 12, a whistleblower--and we don't know whether this was a
man or a woman, so for ease of reference, I will refer to the
whistleblower as ``she''--came forward, as the law required, to file a
complaint with the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community.
The complaint alleged that the President was ``using the power of his
office to solicit interference from a foreign country in the 2020 U.S.
election.''
The inspector general, also as required, determined that the
complaint was credible and involved an urgent concern.
The House, on learning of the whistleblower's complaint, began to ask
questions. What did the House investigation uncover? That the
whistleblower's complaint was right.
Bill Taylor, the top U.S. diplomat in Ukraine; Tim Morrison, the top
Russia and Eastern Europe expert on the National Security Council; and
others have corroborated the whistleblower's complaint about the
President.
Just yesterday, the U.S. Ambassador to the European Union, Gordon
Sondland, confirmed that security assistance for Ukraine was dependent
on the Ukranian Government's launching an investigation into the
President's political opponents.
Let's face it. What Donald Trump did was wrong. It is wrong for the
President of the United States to shake down the Ukrainian President to
get dirt on his political rivals in return for almost $400 million in
U.S. military aid to help Ukraine fight Russia. Faced with growing
evidence of Donald Trump's wrongdoing, what happens? What happens is a
President and his minions attack the whistleblower, suggesting that she
was spying and guilty of treason.
Donald Trump has threatened the whistleblower with ``Big
Consequences''--capital B, capital C--and put her safety at risk with
comments such as: ``I do not know why a person that defrauds the
American public should be protected.'' Guess what, he wasn't talking
about himself.
Donald Trump's devoted rightwing allies have been quick to echo and
amplify the President's attacks. The whistleblower's own attorney
warned Acting Director of National Intelligence Joseph Maguire that the
President's threats are compromising her personal safety. Just last
Sunday, Donald Trump said: ``There have been stories written about a
certain individual, a male, and they say he's the whistleblower . . .
if it's him, you guys ought to release the information.''
House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy also insisted that the
whistleblower ``should come before the committee . . . he needs to
answer the questions.'' While speaking at a Trump campaign rally, my
colleague from Kentucky who has joined me on the floor today, demanded
that the media print the name of the whistleblower. Representative
Jim Jordan, one of Donald Trump's fiercest allies, dismissed the
whistleblower as biased and called for her identity to be made public.
With his attacks on the whistleblower, Donald Trump has made clear
that he will use the full power of his office to bully, intimidate, and
threaten anyone who dares to stand up to him or to speak out against
him.
Can you imagine what a young career foreign service officer at the
State Department might do after seeing the President tell the world
that whistleblowers are spies who defraud our government? Do you think
that person would risk destroying their career and suffer the wrath of
Donald Trump and his fiercest allies and supporters in reporting the
President's misconduct?
How about a career employee at the Department of Defense who sees
that military aid is being held up to pressure a foreign government to
help the President of the United States win reelection? Do you think
that Defense Department employee would risk being accused of betraying
our country and acting as a spy?
Let's be clear here: The real purpose of these attacks is to scare
anyone else who may be thinking of coming forward to stay silent. We
see the President, time and time again, through tweets, in interviews,
at his rallies, openly attacking anyone who questions or disagrees with
him. The chilling effect of what the President is doing cannot be
overstated. It totally undercuts our whistleblower laws. These are not
normal times. In normal times, we would be protecting whistleblowers.
That is what this resolution does.
The resolution I am presenting affirms that if anyone expects public
servants to report misconduct, we have a corresponding duty to protect
their identity and safeguard them from retaliation, from threats. The
whistleblower has done her duty. Now, we need to do ours.
Madam President, as if in legislative session, I ask unanimous
consent the Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. Res.
408 introduced earlier today; that the resolution be agreed to; the
preamble be agreed to; and the motions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, reserving the right to object.