[Congressional Record Volume 165, Number 109 (Thursday, June 27, 2019)]
[House]
[Pages H5223-H5241]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R. 3401,
EMERGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE AND
SECURITY AT THE SOUTHERN BORDER ACT, 2019
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, by direction of the Committee on Rules,
I call up House Resolution 466 and ask for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as follows:
H. Res. 466
Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be
in order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R.
3401) making emergency supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes, with the Senate amendment thereto, and to consider
in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a
motion offered by the chair of the Committee on
Appropriations or her designee that the House concur in the
Senate amendment with an amendment consisting of the text of
Rules Committee Print 116-21. The Senate amendment and the
motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall be
debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on
Appropriations. The previous question shall be considered as
ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening
motion.
Point of Order
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, pursuant to section 426 of the Congressional
Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974, I make a point of order
against consideration of the rule, House Resolution 466.
Section 426 of the Budget Act specifically states that the Rules
Committee may not waive the point of order prescribed in section 425 of
that same act.
House Resolution 466 makes in order a motion ``without intervention
of any point of order.'' Therefore, I make a point of order, pursuant
to section 426 of the Congressional Budget Act, that this rule may not
be considered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Oklahoma makes a point of
order that the resolution violates section 426(a) of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974.
The gentleman has met the threshold burden under the rule and the
gentleman from Oklahoma and a Member opposed each will control 10
minutes of debate on the question of consideration. Following debate,
the Chair will put the question of consideration as the statutory means
of disposing of the point of order.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Oklahoma.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, the bill before us today provides no CBO cost
estimate, so we literally have no idea as to whether or not there are
additional unfunded mandates being imposed on the States. We do know
that the States are already having to use their scarce resources to
deal with this border crisis, and the legislation before us today does
nothing to alleviate that.
Indeed, my colleague from Texas (Mr. Burgess) made that very point
and offered an amendment, which was rejected by the committee, to
consider reimbursing the State of Texas over $800 million for their
expenses. Those same kinds of expenses--probably not to that
magnitude--have been undertaken by other States. Madam Speaker, we
don't think that we should proceed until we have that information and
the House has a chance to consider that.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I claim time in opposition to the point
of order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Massachusetts is
recognized for 10 minutes.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Madam Speaker, what we are trying to do here is bring a bill to the
floor to help alleviate the suffering of children who, in my opinion,
have been abused under U.S. custody at our border. Everybody has read
the news articles and everybody has seen the pictures. We have a moral
obligation to move forward. To try to delay consideration of a bill to
help these children I think is a mistake.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, actually, on that, we have a great deal in common with
one another. We, too, think we ought to address this matter quickly.
As I am sure my friend recalls, we have tried on 16 different
occasions over the last 8 weeks to bring legislation that would
alleviate this problem to the floor. Our friends rejected that every
single time.
We also have a bill that has been passed by the Senate 84-7: a bill
where 35 Democrats--about three-quarters of the number of Democrats--
supported, a bill that we know would solve, a bill that if we would
bring to this floor we can pass immediately and it would go to the
President's desk; it wouldn't have to go back to the Senate. So my
friends, by not accepting an overwhelmingly bipartisan bill by the
Senate and simply moving it on, are the ones who are actually imposing
a delay here.
What they have got in front of us that we will consider later today,
if they are successful, frankly, is something we know the Senate is
unlikely to accept. I have not heard from the President, but given the
scope of the changes inside the bill, these are all changes that, in
some cases, failed yesterday in the Senate--reductions in spending for
the military and for the Border Patrol--that the administration has
already signaled they will reject.
There is a simple solution here. We could simply take the Senate bill
up that has passed 84-7--overwhelming support on both sides of the
aisle--get that bill down to the President, and the money could start
flowing immediately. If we proceed as my friends want to proceed, we
are simply going to be playing ping-pong back and forth.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Madam Speaker, I am surprised that my colleagues on the Republican
side hold this institution in such low esteem. We are the House of
Representatives. Our voice matters.
On this issue, the House voted first on a measure to try to help
provide some assistance to these children at the border. Then the
Senate passed a different version. The way it is supposed to work is we
have a negotiation and we try to come to agreement and come up with a
compromise bill. So the idea that somehow we don't matter in the House,
that we shouldn't matter in the House, that we should just accept
whatever the Senate does, to me, I find
[[Page H5224]]
that disrespectful of the House of Representatives.
What we are doing is we are sending the Senate basically all that
they want, plus we are adding things to help protect children and to
provide for more transparency. We are strengthening requirements for
children's health. We are tightening restrictions for children's
safety. We are supporting nonprofits in communities caring for
children's well-being. I mean, we are embracing compassionate
processing for children's comfort. Again, we are enhancing
accountability in transparency and mandating fiscal responsibility.
Who can possibly be opposed to those things? That is what we are
trying to do. We are trying to insist that the House's voice matters,
and we are trying to make the Senate bill even better.
Again, what motivates us here is the well-being of these children. We
are here because we are for the children. We are here because we are
outraged at the way they have been mistreated by this administration.
We are tired of excuses as to why we can't protect the children. We are
moving forward with legislation that will protect the children against
any abuse at our border.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
{time}  1045
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I don't doubt my friend's sincerity and compassion and
concern for these young people for one minute. I know him well as a
person and value him as a friend. Although, I must say, this would have
been much nicer 8 weeks ago when the administration first asked for it.
While my friend lays out some of the changes in the House bill, he
neglected to mention that the House bill cuts the administration's
request for reimbursement to the military by $124 million. It cuts the
administration's request for money to the Border Patrol, which is
probably where the most difficult part is, by, I think, $89 million. So
we have substantive disagreements.
Again, we have a bill that has passed overwhelmingly. Many of the
items my friends want to add have already been considered by the Senate
and rejected by the Senate. So it seems to me, when we have a
bipartisan product that has got substantial support on both sides and
that the White House has signaled it would accept, that is the way we
should go.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr.
Womack), my good friend and the ranking Republican member of the
Committee on the Budget.
Mr. WOMACK. Madam Speaker, I thank my friend from Oklahoma for
leading in this discussion.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the question on consideration. We
should be taking up the Senate-passed bill. It has already been
mentioned that it passed 84-8.
We don't have a CBO score for the changes made by the House
amendments to the bill, and without a CBO score, we don't know the cost
this bill would have on State and local governments.
Yesterday, in a budget hearing on matters of immigration, we heard
testimony from the mayor of Yuma, Arizona, which clearly demonstrates
the economic impacts and costs that States and local governments are
incurring due to the crisis at the border.
My friends just said changes made by the House on this Senate-passed
bill take tens of millions of dollars away from the Department of
Defense for reimbursement and limit the ability of Customs and Border
Patrol to adequately pay for the services incurred as a result of this
ongoing crisis.
Madam Speaker, Democrats have had many opportunities to advance
bipartisan solutions that would provide the kind of relief to these
communities and begin to address the crisis at the border, and for
nearly 2 months, they have refused to act.
This week has been an unfortunate loss of precious time. This is a
situation where Congress clearly needs to come together and act
swiftly. I am sorry to say, we are falling short in this basic
obligation of the duties of the Congress of the United States of
America.
Madam Speaker, again, I rise in support of the question that we have
under consideration.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I am a little confused. My Republican
friends say they want to delay things to have a CBO score, then they
say they want to get something to the President's desk right away. They
can talk all they want about a CBO score; we are going to talk about
the children.
It is an emergency, and what is happening to these children on the
border is unconscionable. It should weigh heavily on the hearts of
every single person in this Chamber--Democrats and Republicans, alike.
Enough is enough. We need to make sure that we not only provide the
necessary resources to alleviate this crisis, but we need to make sure
that those resources we provide are provided in such a way that they do
go to the purposes that we want them to go to.
And as far as the Department of Defense money, I mean, the bottom
line is this administration has been diverting funds from the
Department of Defense for this stupid wall, and they have created that
crisis.
The bottom line is we are here for the children, and, again, I urge
my colleagues to stop the bickering and get down to business. Let us
pass this rule; let us go on to pass the legislation; and let us get a
deal with the Senate that is better than what is on the table right
now.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. Woodall), my very good friend and distinguished member of
the Rules Committee.
Mr. WOODALL. Madam Speaker, I think folks are going to have a tough
time containing their emotions today. We met in the House Rules
Committee at 8 a.m. this morning, and folks already had fuses that were
running short.
I agree with my friend from Massachusetts, enough is enough.
We had an amendment offered in the Rules Committee this morning. I
don't think most folks in this body know because folks weren't at the
Rules Committee this morning. We had an amendment offered in the Rules
Committee this morning that said, if the gentleman wants to do this new
bill that has been crafted by the Democratic majority, bring that new
bill to the floor, but let's at least consider the bipartisan bill that
passed the Senate, resoundingly, 84-8 yesterday.
I agree with my friend from Massachusetts (Mr. McGovern), enough is
enough, Madam Speaker. We could send a bill to the White House today to
start the money going today.
My friend from Massachusetts said: Let the Republicans talk if they
want to. We want to talk about the children.
I am tired of talking about the children. Let's serve the children.
Let's do it. Let's do it. Let's stop talking about it.
It has been almost 60 days that we have been talking about it, with
one tragic picture after another rolling across the national headlines.
Let's stop talking about it.
If folks have an alternative view, they can share alternative view as
they have, but allow us to vote on what the Senate agreed, 84-8, after
roundly rejecting the previously passed House language, was an
opportunity to serve the children today.
Madam Speaker, I don't believe the Members of this institution know
what happened in the Rules Committee this morning. I don't believe the
Members of this institution know we rejected that bipartisan
opportunity this morning. With this, under a point of order, we will
bring the Members of this institution down here to the House floor
where they will hear it themselves.
We have an opportunity to act now, as my friend from Oklahoma (Mr.
Cole) has offered. The question is: Are we going to take ``yes'' for an
answer or are we just going to continue to talk about the children?
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I am really puzzled here. Why is it that
the Senate can say no, but the House can't say no to something? Why is
it that we always have to do what the Senate wants?
If the gentleman is so enamored with the Senate, maybe he should work
over in the Senate.
[[Page H5225]]
But the bottom line is, those of us in the House deserve to have our
voices heard, and what we are saying here is that we want to provide a
bill that will alleviate this crisis, that will help the children.
Mr. WOODALL. Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. McGOVERN. I will not yield. I do not have enough time to yield.
Mr. WOODALL. Madam Speaker, the gentleman has mischaracterized my
statement.
Will the gentleman yield?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Massachusetts has the
time.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I would like us to make sure we provide
resources to the border that actually alleviate the crisis.
I do not want to be part of an effort to send money to the border to
be diverted for whatever this President wants. He has shown us where he
is on this issue of the children and on the issue of immigration. And,
quite frankly, many of us on this side of the aisle--and, I think, some
on the other side of the aisle--are offended by that.
So we want to make sure, when we say we are providing relief to this
crisis that is affecting so many children, that, in fact, we are
providing relief to those children. And that is all we are saying here.
Madam Speaker, strengthening requirements for children's health, why
would anybody in the Senate want to be opposed to that?
Tightening restrictions for children's safety, people are dying in
our custody. We should want to prevent that from ever occurring again
by supporting nonprofits and community caring for children's well-
being.
Madam Speaker, this stuff is something that should not be
controversial no matter how you look at it, and yet it is for my
Republican friends, and I regret that very much.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I am puzzled as well. I am puzzled why this
wasn't dealt with 8 weeks ago when the administration asked. I am
puzzled why, for 16 times when we tried to bring this matter up on the
floor, our friends in the majority rejected that.
Now we are in a hurry. Well, if we are in a hurry, the way to act is
to take the vehicle that has actually passed the United States Senate
in an overwhelmingly bipartisan fashion and send it to the President of
the United States.
That is not what my friends want to do. They want to prolong the
debate. They have prolonged it for 2 months, for 8 weeks, by not taking
the matter up. They are prolonging it today by not taking what has
already been passed and moving along.
So, obviously, we oppose this rule, and we want to move on. We will
be happy to work with them to move on the Senate legislation. I think
it would pass in an overwhelmingly bipartisan way; the President would
sign it; and that aid would begin flowing. What my friends are
proposing is quite the opposite. It is a prolonged back-and-forth with
the United States Senate.
I have deep respect for the institution, but what is going to come
out of here is going to be partisan; what came out of there is
bipartisan.
What is going to come out of here won't be signed by the President;
what has come out of the United States Senate will be. So if they are
in a hurry to get the money moving, that is the way we should proceed.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, let me remind my colleagues, this is not
the House bill that passed. This is a compromise that we have moved
forward.
And, again, here is what my friends are saying is partisan: that we
put into this bill that for children's health we must ensure a higher
standard for medical care, nutrition, and hygiene. That is what they
are calling partisan. That is what they are saying, oh, it is awful, we
can't move forward on that.
The bill we are putting forward, this compromise bill, will meet the
needs of the children. That is all that it does. So I don't know why we
in the House can't, in a bipartisan way, stand together and say: Look,
we want to improve on what the Senate did, and we want to guarantee
that the moneys we send actually go to help the children and not get
diverted to other things like we know this administration has a habit
of doing.
Madam Speaker, anybody who has seen the pictures in the newspapers
recently, anybody who has read the news articles, again, our hearts
should ache.
This is not America. This is not what our country is about. We can do
much, much better, and that is why we should move forward with
consideration.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, may I inquire as to how much time is
remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Oklahoma has 1\1/2\
minutes remaining. The gentleman from Massachusetts has 3\1/4\ minutes
remaining.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I am prepared to close and will yield back
the balance of my time at the conclusion of my remarks.
Madam Speaker, we don't think the House bill is a better bill. We
don't think reducing the amount the Senate gave to the military by $124
million is a good idea. We don't think reducing the amount of money
that is going to Border Patrol, which is one of the areas that is a
problem, by $89 million is a good idea. We don't think a lot of this
effort to micromanage a crisis that is thousands of miles away from us
by this body here has good suggestions.
We want some flexibility. We think the Senate bill does take care of
the needs on the border in terms of unaccompanied minors who have
crossed over into our territory. So we just don't think this does it,
and we think this prolongs the process.
We have a bipartisan bill--a perfect bill? No. Is our bill a perfect
bill? No. As a matter of fact, we like the Senate bill on our side
better than this bill. Regardless, that one can pass. That one can pass
on this floor. That one can be signed into law.
This one that my friends are embarking on, they think it is an
improvement. I will just tell them, politically, not passing the
Senate, not likely to be signed by the President.
So if we want to get help there immediately, we have a way to do it
in the Senate bill. We think this leads us to a political dead-end.
Madam Speaker, I would press for my motion, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Madam Speaker, my colleagues have seen the pictures and they have
heard the stories. And if that is not convincing to them to move
forward, to increase protections for children who are held in our
custody, then I don't know what else to say.
What we are asking for here in this compromise bill that we are
moving forward is to make sure that there are stronger protections in
here, to make sure that the abuse that we have all read about and that
we have all seen stops and never, ever happens again. That is what this
is all about.
So I am at a loss because, to me, the evidence is overwhelming that
we need to provide stronger protections for these children. If my
colleagues disagree, then they can vote against the bill and against
consideration, but I would urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes'' so
that we can move forward with this rule in consideration of this bill
and get this passed as soon as possible and get on to either urging the
Senate to pass it or to continue in negotiation, but we can do better
than the Senate bill.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is, Will the House now consider
the resolution?
The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 226,
nays 188, not voting 18, as follows:
[Roll No. 425]
YEAS--226
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragan
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
[[Page H5226]]
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cardenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lujan
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney, Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O'Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sanchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small (NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velazquez
Visclosky
Wasserman Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS--188
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING--18
Abraham
Castro (TX)
Crenshaw
DesJarlais
Gabbard
Hastings
Huffman
Kustoff (TN)
Lucas
Marchant
Moulton
Mullin
Rogers (AL)
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Scott, David
Swalwell (CA)
Walorski
{time}  1128
Messrs. BIGGS, YOUNG, and TIMMONS changed their vote from ``yea'' to
``nay.''
So the question of consideration was decided in the affirmative.
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Cuellar). The gentleman from
Massachusetts is recognized for 1 hour.
Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, for the purpose of debate only, I yield
the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. Cole), the
ranking member of the Rules Committee, pending which I yield myself
such time as I may consume. During consideration of this resolution,
all time yielded is for the purpose of debate only.
General Leave
Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their
remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, today the Rules Committee met and reported
a rule, House Resolution 466, providing for consideration of the Senate
amendment to H.R. 3401. One hour of general debate has been provided,
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on
Appropriations.
Mr. Speaker, I think, by now, we all have seen the horrific images
showing the bodies of Oscar Alberto Martinez Ramirez and his nearly 2-
year-old daughter, Valeria. They were taken on Monday as these
Salvadoran migrants tried to cross the Rio Grande after leaving a
Mexican migrant camp. Like so many others, they were exercising their
legal right to seek asylum here in the United States. They wanted to be
free from the violence, gangs, poverty, and inequality that is rampant
in El Salvador, just as it is all across Central America.
I visited El Salvador and I visited Honduras recently, and, Mr.
Speaker, I saw the unbearable conditions with my own eyes. It is no
wonder that organizations like the United Nations Office on Drugs and
Crime have said this and other Central American countries are more
dangerous than Afghanistan and only slightly better than Syria.
Syria, Mr. Speaker, is the site of an ongoing civil war. Let that
sink in for a moment.
But, unfortunately, Alberto and Valeria didn't survive their journey.
Alberto's wife, Tania, was forced to watch in horror as a current
washed her family away.
I am telling their story today because this is what migrants face as
they risk their lives to come to this country--not to transport drugs,
not to commit crimes, as the President suggests, but to find refuge, to
raise their daughter in a safe place, and to have a chance at building
a better life, a life that they could only find in America.
Isn't this what each of us wants for our own families?
They came to present themselves at a legal port of entry and to seek
legal asylum, as is their right under U.S. law.
And they weren't the only ones to die. Just this past weekend, Border
Patrol agents found four more bodies in the river west of Brownsville,
Texas: three more young children and a young woman in her twenties.
Every single week, people drown in the river and perish in the
deserts, invisible and unknown.
It wasn't too long ago that we celebrated how immigration made our
country stronger, whether it was a Democratic or a Republican
administration.
I am reminded of President Reagan's final speech in office, where he
said:
Anybody, from any corner of the world, can come to America
to live and become an American. This, I believe, is one of
the most important sources of America's greatness.
But, Mr. Speaker, the Trump administration apparently has the
complete opposite view of immigration. They don't celebrate it; they
demonize it.
Consider what may have happened to Oscar and his family if they did
make it to our border, forced to sleep on concrete floors with the
lights on 24 hours a day, with no soap, no medicine, maybe not even a
toothbrush, Valeria separated from her parents, because that is what
migrants are forced to endure at border facilities under this
President.
[[Page H5227]]
A physician who visited one recently said: ``The conditions within
which they are held could be compared to torture facilities.''
Mr. Speaker, when Lady Liberty encourages us to give her our poor,
huddled masses, I don't think she means so the administration can turn
around and throw them in a cage. I don't think she lifts her torch so
their legal plight could be criminalized and crying children could be
ripped from the arms of their parents.
But that is what is happening under this President, and, Mr. Speaker,
it is sickening. It should tear at the hearts of every single Member of
this House, whether they are Democrats or Republicans.
This week, the House passed bipartisan emergency legislation to
address this humanitarian crisis at the border. The Senate had its own
ideas. So, today, we are back with a compromise to get a bill quickly
signed into law.
This is a compromise that lives up to our core values and protects
children and families. It adds critical protections for children who
were included in the House version of the bill. It includes language to
improve care for children by forcing influx facilities to comply with
the Flores settlement and capping, at 90 days, the amount of time a
child can spend in such a facility.
We are also reducing funding for ICE, while rejecting additional and
unnecessary dollars for the Pentagon.
This is a crisis, Mr. Speaker. We cannot treat compromise as though
it is a dirty word, not when migrants are literally losing their lives
in unsafe, unhealthy, and unsanitary conditions and children are being
torn apart from their families. That is what is at stake here.
The horrors at detention centers shouldn't get lost in the latest
tweet-a-thon by the President, just as the plight of migrants shouldn't
go unseen by the American people. This should shake our conscience and
make clear the urgent need to act.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this rule and the
underlying bill, and let's send a message to the President and to the
world that America is better than this. This is not who we are, what is
happening at our border.
Mr. Speaker, I would just say one final thing. In the compromise
package today that seems to bother so many people are merely items that
would protect the well-being of these children, that would provide more
transparency. For the life of me, I don't understand the controversy. I
don't understand why we can't make the Senate bill better, why we can't
do more for these children.
I know my colleagues on the other side of the aisle feel as we do,
that what is happening is unacceptable. Let us strengthen that bill.
Let us actually give a bill to the President that we all know will help
these children.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I want to begin by thanking my good friend, the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Chairman McGovern) for yielding me the customary 30
minutes.
Mr. Speaker, well, we are here for the third time this week and the
second time on a supplemental appropriations bill for the southern
border.
Earlier this week, I spoke on this floor and expressed my concerns
about the House bill. Make no mistake, we need emergency funding for
the crisis on the southern border. We needed it 2 months ago, and we
need it even more desperately today.
Two days ago, I warned that the bill the House was considering would
not pass the Senate and would not become law, and I was proven correct.
The House bill failed in the Senate. In fact, it only received 37 votes
in support. In contrast, the Senate amendment passed in a bipartisan
vote of 84-8.
If the Democratic leadership would allow a vote on the Senate text, I
believe it would pass this Chamber today and be on its way to the
President's desk--today. But, instead, we are here considering a rule
that would further amend the bill, bringing back in provisions that
have already failed to garner support in the Senate.
If this bill fails to pass the Senate, as I expect will happen, then
we will be leaving town for a week without actually having passed
anything to deal with the crisis. And I do remind my friends on the
other side we have attempted on our side, 16 times, to bring up
legislation to deal with this, and the President asked for this money 2
months ago.
So, I am glad they have a sense of urgency now, because we have not
seen it in the past.
My sense is that this is more about maintaining the unity of the
Democratic Caucus than it is about pressing legislation that can be
enacted into law. But that has been true for this entire Congress, and
it is why my friends have, so far, failed to enact any significant
legislation during their tenure in the majority.
Mr. Speaker, we are out of time. We desperately need to get these
emergency funds to the Federal agencies responsible for managing this
crisis. They are out of money and need additional resources to take
care of people, many of them innocent children, who are affected by
this crisis. We do not have the luxury of time in responding to this
emergency.
My friends on the other side of the aisle are about to make the exact
same mistake that they made on Tuesday when they pushed forward a
partisan bill that would not pass the Senate and that the President
would not sign into law.
What I don't understand, Mr. Speaker, is why the majority is so
resistant to acting in a bipartisan manner here. Both Republicans and
Democrats agree that we need additional funding to address the crisis
on the southern border. There is a real chance to send a bipartisan
bill to the President that will become law. And, instead of doing what
will immediately help children and families at the border, the majority
is attempting to cut the needed funding from the Senate bill, add
partisan riders back into it, and then send it back to the Senate,
where it can fail again.
Madam Speaker, we do not have time to waste on purely political
exercises. There is still an opportunity to correct that mistake, Madam
Speaker, and I would urge the majority to take that opportunity
seriously.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from California (Mr.
McCarthy), the distinguished Republican leader.
Mr. McCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, 58 days--58 days--is the amount of time since the
administration asked and said there was a crisis on the border, that
they needed funding.
Madam Speaker, 18 times--18 times--we had the opportunity to take a
vote on this floor, and we did not come to a solution, and it did not
pass.
Madam Speaker, two times--two times--The New York Times wrote
editorials in those 58 days calling upon this body to put politics
aside, that this crisis on the border was greater than the politics
that we want to play.
The Mexican Government realizes there is a crisis on the border and
just sent 15,000 troops. We have seen the pictures. We have heard the
words. On either side they talk of it.
We were in this well just a few days ago having a debate. Many of us
said: Why would we take this moment to do a political maneuver that
will not go anywhere in the Senate?
Don't take our word for it. Take the votes for it. The bill did not
pass.
There is a time for every season. The season to continue to play
politics is over. The season to put people before politics is now.
Don't take my word for it. Take the example of the Chamber that is
just across the way. It is not far. You can see it if you look out
those doors; you can walk it without taking much breath; and you can
understand what bipartisanship looks like, Madam Speaker.
The Senate took up a bill to take up this crisis. The vote was 84-8.
{time}  1145
Madam Speaker, 84-8. There has been historic legislation that was
passed with much less, but there have been very few that have ever been
defeated that have gone 84-8.
But today, we are going to take hours to learn the exact same
experience that we had just a few, short hours ago. The 84-8--when I
listen to the other side and say that this--the Democratic Party, Madam
Speaker, wants to do this.
[[Page H5228]]
Let me read the names of some of those who voted for this bill to
understand what bipartisan sounds like: Senator Chuck Schumer, Senator
Dick Durbin, Senator Tim Kaine, Senator Patty Murray, and Senator
Dianne Feinstein all voted ``yes.'' Every single member of the Senate
Democratic leadership voted ``yes'' to end the crisis on the border.
But why, Madam Speaker, are we on this floor now? Why does the
Democratic leadership on this side want to continue to play politics
when the Democrat leadership in the Senate says no?
Fifty-eight days is enough. Eighteen votes over there are too many.
But, yes, people are dying. But, yes, the money is out. We have all
acknowledged it on this floor.
Madam Speaker, it makes me begin to wonder, how can a few control so
many?
On that opening day, when we are on this floor, we all raise our hand
individually. We all swear to uphold the Constitution. Our names are
individually on the ballot when we are voted to come in here.
This is not a moment to let somebody else control your name or your
voting card. This is not a moment to say, my party tells me to go here,
because that is not the case.
Chuck Schumer is the leader of the Democratic Party. Dick Durbin is
the leader of the Democrats when it comes to immigration. I have spent
hours and months with Dick Durbin in a room trying to come to an
immigration agreement, and we have seen places far, far apart. We have
spent months trying to come to a conclusion.
But you know what? We have this time. We have found a more perfect
union when we found bipartisanship.
But are we going to allow a few to continue to deny it?
Fifty-eight days. You do not have more. The money is gone. The time
is now.
We all know that we are better than this. I do not accuse anybody on
either side of what they truly believe about a crisis. I have heard.
I have heard people on the other side of the aisle, Madam Speaker,
that said they want to vote for the Senate bill. Can we allow them to
vote for the Senate bill?
Can we allow them to join with the 84 Senators out of 100 on the
other side that said ``yes'' to it? Or do we have a few that control
what can come to the floor?
Now, I heard in this rule debate that there are some amendments; that
somehow they are going to make it better. What makes it better? That we
do not fund to pay any overtime costs for Immigration and Customs
Enforcement officers, or provide funding for the active duty of the
National Guard troops working with them on the front line of the crisis
at the border?
Is that making it better?
Is that really what you want to stake your political career on?
Is that really what you want to stand up against bipartisanship for?
Madam Speaker, I have heard a lot of names on the other side say they
would vote for it. I think everybody in this body knows that that
Senate bill will pass. I think everybody in their heart knows that is
where we are going to end up.
But do we have to go through it one more time?
You do not have to worry about what the outcome will be. The leader
of the Senate has already said what will happen; because I will promise
you this, on this side of the aisle, we will stay here until this is
done. We will not leave, and we will stand with the bipartisan vote in
the Senate.
If you are worried about getting to 218, do not worry. Put that bill
on suspension, I promise you it will pass.
I call upon all of our better angels for this one moment, for this
one time, when America is watching, that we rise to the occasion; that
we put the partisanship aside; that we have swapped; that the Senate
has actually taught us, given us the adult supervision to show that,
yes, we have had that fight; yes, you tried to make it and it didn't
make it. But there is something better. There is a window, and there is
an opportunity.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the Speaker's
table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and concur in the
Senate amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. Jackson Lee). The Chair would advise
that all time has been yielded for the purpose of debate only.
Does the gentleman from Massachusetts yield for the purpose of this
unanimous consent request?
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I do not yield for that purpose. All
time yielded is for the purpose of debate only.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Massachusetts does not
yield; therefore, the unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
I want to assure the distinguished minority leader that I am not
asking Members of Congress to vote for what we are bringing before the
House today based on their party. I am asking Members to vote their
conscience.
And to be totally frank, we want to make sure there are protections
built in this legislation so that funds are not misused as they have
been in the past; so we don't see any more children being abused; so we
don't see the mismanagement that we have witnessed.
With all due respect to the Senate majority leader, and to many of my
friends on the other side of the aisle, when children were being ripped
apart from their parents, we heard silence. When we read about the
terrible conditions that these children were in, being denied soap, and
toothpaste, and toothbrushes, and not being cared for, we heard
silence.
When we saw the picture of Oscar and Valeria dead, trying to seek
asylum in this country, there is nothing.
So the bottom line is, we want to get this done, and we will stay
here as long as it takes, I assure the minority leader. We are not
going anywhere.
But we are going to stand for the children, and that is what our
purpose is here today.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania
(Ms. Scanlon), a distinguished member of the Rules Committee.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I am so glad that our colleagues across
the aisle agree that the conditions at the border are intolerable,
because they are.
A few months ago, I had the opportunity to go to the southern border,
meet with Border Patrol agents and advocates on the ground, including a
woman who had been separated from her children, and we toured detention
facilities.
The humanitarian crisis then, in February, was undeniable, and it has
only gotten worse. But the cause of this crisis has raised serious
questions, particularly as to why it has escalated.
In addition to suspending critical aid designed to relieve conditions
causing desperate families to flee their homes, the Trump
administration is failing to use longstanding lawful processes and
available resources to provide relief to children and refugees at the
southern border.
The Trump administration's policies are not making our border safer,
but they are worsening the situation, at the expense of the health and
well-being of desperate children and families.
There are unused beds at facilities in my home State of Pennsylvania
and in Texas, and many refugee children have sponsors, family members
available here, but they are being denied access.
Prior to coming to Congress, I represented immigrants and asylum
seekers who, by definition, lawfully enter this country seeking refuge.
I can confidently say that international law is being violated on a
daily basis by this administration, and it has abandoned longstanding
legal norms for processing asylees, with the apparent purpose of
exacerbating the crisis for political gain.
I agree that we need to send additional resources to relieve the
inhumane conditions affecting refugees at our border. But we also have
a responsibility to make sure that those resources are not misused to
worsen rather than relieve this crisis.
Therefore, I urge that we support the border relief bill that is
before us, which will provide resources to relieve the crisis and
improve the health and well-being of innocent children, while allowing
transparency and oversight.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
[[Page H5229]]
Mr. McGOVERN. I yield the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania an additional
30 seconds.
Ms. SCANLON. It is important that we allow transparency and oversight
on how those funds are used.
To our Republican colleagues in the Senate, especially Majority
Leader McConnell, if you fail to work with us to address this
humanitarian crisis, not only will your legacy be your legislative
graveyard in the Senate, but the deaths of these children and families.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
Granger) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair understands that the gentleman
from Massachusetts has not yielded for that purpose; therefore, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
New York (Mr. Katko) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
overwhelmingly. Ten times more Senators voted for this bill than voted
against it. That is the essence of bipartisanship.
I ask that we make this House proud. I ask that we make our
colleagues proud. And I ask that we pass this bill and send it to the
President's desk for his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair understands that the gentleman
from Massachusetts has not yielded for that purpose; therefore, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
The Chair would advise Members that even though a unanimous consent
request to consider a measure is not entertained, embellishments
accompanying such requests constitute debate and will become an
imposition on the time of the Member who yielded for that purpose.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from Missouri
(Mrs. Wagner) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment.
We must not adjourn. We will stay and do the people's work and take
care of this humanitarian crisis on the border. Send this to the
President's desk immediately, today, for signature.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair understands that the gentleman
from Massachusetts has not yielded for that purpose; therefore, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained. Time will be deducted
from the gentleman from Oklahoma.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. Fitzpatrick) for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker, as an FBI agent who worked border
security on the border, understanding it all too well, I ask unanimous
consent to take from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate
amendment thereto, and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan
bill passed the Senate with 84 votes and could be sent to the
President's desk for his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair understands that the gentleman
from Massachusetts has not yielded for that purpose; therefore, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
South Dakota (Mr. Johnson) for the purpose of a unanimous consent
request.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to take from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment
thereto, and to concur with the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill
passed the Senate with 84 votes and could be sent to the President for
his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair understands that the gentleman
from Massachusetts has not yielded for that purpose; therefore, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
{time}  1200
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentlewoman
from Indiana (Mrs. Brooks), my good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
take from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment
thereto, and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill
passed the Senate with 84 votes, and could be sent to the President's
desk for his signature today.
We must show the American people that bipartisanship is about solving
these children's problems.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Massachusetts has not
yielded for that purpose.
Time will be deducted from the gentleman from Oklahoma.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. Walker) for the purpose of a unanimous consent
request.
Mr. WALKER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
84-8 and could be sent to the President's desk for his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. Walberg), my friend, for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. WALBERG. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amount thereto, and concur
in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate with 84
votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his signature
today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. Mitchell), my friend, for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Florida (Mr. Mast), my friend, for the purpose of a unanimous consent
request.
Mr. MAST. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Minnesota (Mr. Bergman), my good friend, for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from Missouri
(Mrs. Hartzler), my good friend, for the purpose of a unanimous consent
request.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from
the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
[[Page H5230]]
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Oklahoma (Mr. Kevin Hern), my good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
take from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment
thereto, and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill
passed the Senate with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's
desk for his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Nebraska (Mr. Smith), my good friend, for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take
from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto,
and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the
Senate with 84 votes and could immediately be sent to the President's
desk for his signature.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Ohio (Mr. Latta), my friend, for the purpose of a unanimous consent
request.
Mr. LATTA. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Texas (Mr. Babin), my good friend, for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Texas, Judge Carter, my very good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. CARTER of Texas. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take
from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto,
and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the
Senate with 84 votes. It could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Texas (Mr. Wright), my good friend, for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. WRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. Westerman), my good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from
the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr.
Burchett), my friend, for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. BURCHETT. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Indiana (Mr. Baird), my good friend, for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. BAIRD. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Washington (Mr. Newhouse), my very good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr.
Cole) for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the Speaker's
table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and concur in the
Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate with 84 votes
and could be sent to the President's desk for his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. Marshall), my very good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. MARSHALL. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. Joyce), my good friend, for the purpose of a unanimous consent
request.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
take from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment
thereto, and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill
passed the Senate with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's
desk for his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As previously advised, the unanimous consent
request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. Palmer), my very good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. PALMER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Florida (Mr.
Spano), my good friend, for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
[[Page H5231]]
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. Meuser), my very good friend, for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
Steil), my good friend, for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. Reschenthaler), my very good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take
from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto,
and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the
Senate with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Texas (Mr.
Weber), my friend, for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. WEBER of Texas. Madam Speaker, for the love of God and this
country, I ask unanimous consent to take from the Speaker's table H.R.
3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and concur in the Senate
amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate with 84 votes and
could be sent to the President's desk for his signature today, so help
us, God.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Massachusetts has not
yielded for that purpose and therefore the unanimous consent request
cannot be entertained.
Time will be deducted from the gentleman from Oklahoma.
{time}  1215
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I include in the Record two articles,
one from The New York Times entitled: `` `There is a Stench': Soiled
Clothes and No Baths for Migrant Children at a Texas Center''; the
other, `` `The Taliban Gave Me Toothpaste': Former Captives Contrast
U.S. Treatment of Child Migrants.''
[From the New York Times, June 21, 2019]
`There Is a Stench': Soiled Clothes and No Baths for Migrant Chidren at
a Texas Center
(By Caitlin Dickerson)
A chaotic scene of sickness and filth is unfolding in an
overcrowded border station in Clint, Tex., where hundreds of
young people who have recently crossed the border are being
held, according to lawyers who visited the facility this
week. Some of the children have been there for nearly a
month.
Children as young as 7 and 8, many of them wearing clothes
caked with snot and tears, are caring for infants they've
just met, the lawyers said. Toddlers without diapers are
relieving themselves in their pants. Teenage mothers are
wearing clothes stained with breast milk.
Most of the young detainees have not been able to shower or
wash their clothes since they arrived at the facility, those
who visited said. They have no access to toothbrushes,
toothpaste or soap.
[Hundreds of migrant children have now been transferred out
of the facility.]
``There is a stench,'' said Elora Mukherjee, director of
the Immigrants' Rights Clinic at Columbia Law School, one of
the lawyers who visited the facility. ``The overwhelming
majority of children have not bathed since they crossed the
border.''
Conditions at Customs and Border Protection facilities
along the border have been an issue of increasing concern as
officials warn that the recent large influx of migrant
families has driven many of the facilities well past their
capacities. The border station in Clint is only one of those
with problems.
In May, the inspector general for the Department of
Homeland Security warned of ``dangerous overcrowding'' among
adult migrants housed at the border processing center in El
Paso, with up to 900 migrants being held at a facility
designed for 125. In some cases, cells designed for 35 people
were holding 155 people.
``Border Patrol agents told us some of the detainees had
been held in standing-room-only conditions for days or
weeks,'' the inspector general's office said in its report,
which noted that some detainees were observed standing on
toilets in the cells ``to make room and gain breathing space,
thus limiting access to the toilets.''
Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas on Friday announced the
deployment of 1,000 new National Guard troops to the border
to help respond to the continuing new arrivals, which the
governor said have amounted to more than 45,000 people from
52 countries over the past three weeks.
``The crisis at our southern border is unlike anything
we've witnessed before and has put an enormous strain on the
existing resources we have in place,'' Mr. Abbott said,
adding, ``Congress is a group of reprobates for not
addressing the crisis on our border.''
The number of border crossings appears to have slowed in
recent weeks, possibly as a result of a crackdown by the
Mexican government under pressure from President Trump, but
the numbers remain high compared to recent years. The
overcrowding crisis has been unfolding invisibly, with
journalists and lawyers offered little access to fenced-off
border facilities.
The reports of unsafe and unsanitary conditions at Clint
and elsewhere came days after government lawyers in court
argued that they should not have to provide soap or
toothbrushes to children under the legal settlement that gave
Ms. Mukherjee and her colleagues access to the facility in
Clint. The result of a lawsuit that was first settled in
1997, the settlement set the standards for the detention,
treatment and release of migrant minors taken into federal
immigration custody.
Ms. Mukherjee is part of a team of lawyers who has for
years under the settlement been allowed to inspect government
facilities where migrant children are detained. She and her
colleagues traveled to Clint this week after learning that
border officials had begun detaining minors who had recently
crossed the border there.
She said the conditions in Clint were the worst she had
seen in any facility in her 12-year career. ``So many
children are sick, they have the flu, and they're not being
properly treated,'' she said. The Associated Press, which
first reported on conditions at the facility earlier this
week, found that it was housing three infants, all with teen
mothers, along with a 1-year-old, two 2-year-olds and a 3-
year-old. It said there were dozens more children under the
age of 12.
Ms. Mukherjee said children were being overseen by guards
for Customs and Border Protection, which declined to comment
for this story. She and her colleagues observed the guards
wearing full uniforms--including weapons--as well as face
masks to protect themselves from the unsanitary conditions.
Together, the group of six lawyers met with 60 children in
Clint this week who ranged from 5 months to 17 years old. The
infants were either children of minor parents, who were also
detained, or had been separated from adult family members
with whom they had crossed the border. The separated children
were now alone, being cared for by other young detainees.
``The children are locked in their cells and cages nearly
all day long,'' Ms. Mukherjee said. ``A few of the kids said
they had some opportunities to go outside and play, but they
said they can't bring themselves to play because they are
trying to stay alive in there.''
When the lawyers arrived, federal officials said that more
than 350 children were detained at the facility. The
officials did not disclose the facility's capacity but said
the population had exceeded it. By the time the lawyers left
on Wednesday night, border officials told them that about 200
of the children had been transferred elsewhere but did not
say where they had been sent.
``That's what's keeping me up at night,'' Ms. Mukherjee
said.
Some sick children were being quarantined in the facility.
The lawyers were allowed to speak to the children by phone,
but their requests to meet with them in person and observe
the conditions they were being held in were denied.
The children told the lawyers they were given the same
meals every day--instant oats for breakfast, instant noodles
for lunch, a frozen burrito for dinner, along with a few
cookies and juice packets--which many said was not enough.
``Nearly every child I spoke with said that they were
hungry,'' Ms. Mukherjee said.
[[Page H5232]]
Another group of lawyers conducting inspections under the
same federal court settlement said they discovered similar
conditions earlier this month at six other facilities in
Texas. At the Border Patrol's Central Processing Center in
McAllen, Tex.--often known as ``Ursula''--the lawyers
encountered a 17-year-old mother from Guatemala who couldn't
stand because of complications from an emergency C-section,
and who was caring for a sick and dirty premature baby.
``When we encountered the baby and her mom, the baby was
filthy. They wouldn't give her any water to wash her. And I
took a Kleenex and I washed around her neck black dirt,''
said Hope Frye, who was leading the group, adding, ``Not a
little stuff--dirt.''
After government lawyers argued in the Ninth Circuit Court
of Appeals in San Francisco this week that amenities such as
soap and toothbrushes should not be mandated under the legal
settlement originally agreed to between the government and
migrant families in 1997 and amended several times since
then, all three judges voiced dismay.
Among the guidelines set under the legal settlement are
that facilities for children must be ``safe and sanitary.''
The Justice Department's lawyer, Sarah Fabian, argued that
the settlement agreement did not specify the need to supply
hygienic items and that, therefore, the government did not
need to do so.
``Are you arguing seriously that you do not read the
agreement as requiring you to do anything other than what I
just described: cold all night long, lights on all night
long, sleeping on concrete and you've got an aluminum foil
blanket?'' Judge William Fletcher asked Ms. Fabian. ``I find
that inconceivable that the government would say that is safe
and sanitary.''
____
`The Taliban Gave me Toothpaste': Former Captives Contrast U.S.
Treatment of Child Migrants
(By Deanna Paul)
[June 25, 2019]
The federal government told a panel of Ninth Circuit
appellate judges last week that U.S. border detention
facilities are ``safe and sanitary,'' as required by law,
even though migrant children are denied soap, toothbrushes
and dark places to sleep.
Judge William A. Fletcher called the position of Sarah
Fabian, a senior attorney from the Office of Immigration
Litigation, ``inconceivable.''
Senior U.S. Circuit Judge A. Wallace Tashima told the
government attorney, ``If you don't have a toothbrush, if you
don't have soap, if you don't have a blanket, it's not safe
and sanitary.''
Fabian's argument spread rapidly across the Internet--and
so did several tweets supporting the notion that the United
States treats migrant detainees less humanely than foreign
pirates and the Taliban treat their captives.
American journalist Michael Scott Moore, abducted in 2012
while reporting in Somalia, watched Fabian argue that minimal
necessities, like toiletries and sleeping conditions, were
not essential to meet minimum ``safe and sanitary''
standards.
``That was--let's say--below my experience in Somalia,'' he
told The Washington Post Tuesday of his more than two years
in captivity.
``The conditions were about as miserable as you could
imagine,'' he said, describing a barren and concrete prison
house. Often there was no electricity, he said, ``but we had
certain minimum things that kept it from being completely
wretched.''
He said he was given toothpaste, soap, a daily shower and a
foam mattress.
Recent reports have surfaced describing U.S. border
detainees held in cages of chain-link fencing, sleeping on
concrete and covered with blankets made of aluminum foil,
allegations that Customs and Border Protection officials
dispute.
On Tuesday, the agency said that children in custody
receive ``continuous access to hygiene products and adequate
food'' while awaiting shelter placement.
Somali pirates gave me toothpaste & soap.
https://
twitter.com/nowthisnews/status/1142151178177978368
. . .
An executive editor at newyorker.com, David Rohde,
contributed to the online conversation, too.
``The Taliban gave me toothpaste & soap,'' he wrote on
Twitter, drawing from the seven months he spent as a hostage
of the Taliban. Rohde said he was not abused in their
custody, though the group is known for abusing its captives.
The online thread with former prisoners has been liked
nearly half a million times. Washington Post Global opinions
writer Jason Rezaian, who was held in Iranian custody for a
year and a half and has an ongoing lawsuit against the
Iranian government, also responded on Twitter.
``I felt if I didn't chime in, it would be the height of
hypocrisy,'' Rezaian told The Post on Tuesday, calling U.S.
treatment of children at the border misaligned with ``what
this country stands for.'' ``The government is treating them
like they're statistics, `the other' and not deserving of
basic humanity.''
From the first day in captivity, Rezaian was permitted to
shower regularly. He was also given a toothbrush and
toothpaste. Rezaian asked, ``If we're going to treat the most
vulnerable people this way, what does that say about our
actual values?''
I had a toothbrush and toothpaste--not exactly Aquafresh or
Tom's--from the first night. Actually, I had almost nothing
else in my cell while I was in solitary confinement. I was
allowed to shower every couple of days.
https://twitter.com/
yashar/status/1142546005688311808 . . .
The case heard on Tuesday stems from a motion filed under
the Obama administration. In part, it argued that Customs and
Border Protection was holding children in detention
facilities that were not ``safe and sanitary,'' in violation
of a 1997 precedent.
The Trump administration, however, opted to bring the
appeal, asking the panel of three judges to condone current
custody conditions.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. Escobar).
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker, the last thing I would want to see is a
repeat of the other night when my colleagues on the other side of the
aisle laughed and jeered as I described the situation at the border and
what is happening to the children in our custody.
Madam Speaker, the minority leader earlier asked why are we here
again--one word, ``oversight''--``oversight.''
We have seen, as Members of Congress, too often, our desire to
provide oversight, which is a fundamental responsibility, a fundamental
duty of ours, we have seen it thwarted and we have seen it obstructed.
There is no one in this Chamber right now who feels more of a sense
of urgency than the Representative from Texas 16, El Paso, where we
have had a front row to the atrocities occurring at the hands of this
government.
And I will tell you, part of the challenge for many of us who have
worked with goodwill and charity has been witnessing the fact that
Congress has not been able to provide fundamental guardrails for the
treatment of these kids.
What is the main difference between the Senate bill and the House
bill? Ours is far more humane. Ours ensures that money will not be
diverted for things that have turned a challenge into a crisis.
A few examples include ripping children from the arms of their
parents or sending vulnerable populations back into Mexico. In fact,
Madam Speaker, in my district, one of the individuals sent back to
Mexico under this administration's policy was kidnapped and raped. We
have also seen people legally blocked at our ports of entry, sent to
more treacherous crossings. That is why Oscar and Valeria died.
So oversight is why our bill is the better bill.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. Hill), my very good friend, for the purpose of unanimous
consent.
Mr. HILL. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in this Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill was passed in the
Senate with 84 votes, Madam Speaker, and could be sent today to the
President's desk for his signature.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my very good friend from the
great State of Kentucky (Mr. Comer) for a unanimous consent request.
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and can be sent to the President's desk for his signature
today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my very good friend from the
great State of Montana (Mr. Gianforte) for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from
the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised,
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my very good friend from the
great
[[Page H5233]]
State of Idaho (Mr. Fulcher) for the purpose of a unanimous consent
request.
Mr. FULCHER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my very good friend from the
great State of Texas (Mr. Conaway) for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and to
concur in that Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and can be sent to the President's desk for his signature
today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my very good friend from the
great State of Pennsylvania (Mr. Thompson) for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to take from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment
thereto, and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill
passed the Senate with 84 votes and can be sent to the President's desk
for his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. Keller), my friend and newest Member of the House of
Representatives, for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent directly to the President's desk for
his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my very good friend from the
great State of Illinois (Mr. Bost) for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Florida (Mr. Rutherford), my very good friend, for the purpose of
unanimous consent request.
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from
the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
Virginia, my good friend (Mr. Riggleman) for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from
the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my good friend from the great
State of Tennessee (Mr. Rose) for the purpose of a unanimous consent
request.
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to take from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment
thereto, and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill
passed the Senate with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's
desk for his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my good friend from the great
State of Illinois (Mr. LaHood) for the purpose of a unanimous consent
request.
Mr. LaHOOD. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my good friend from the great
State of South Carolina (Mr. Norman) for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. NORMAN. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my very good friend from the
great State of Ohio (Mr. Stivers) for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. STIVERS. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendments thereto, and
concur with the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the
Senate with 84 votes and it could be sent to the President for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my good friend from the great
State of Virginia (Mr. Cline) for the purpose of a unanimous consent
request.
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my very good friend from the
great State of Michigan (Mr. Moolenaar) for the purpose of a unanimous
consent request.
Mr. MOOLENAAR. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from
the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentlewoman from the great
State of West Virginia (Mrs. Miller), my good friend, for the purpose
of a unanimous consent request.
Mrs. MILLER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk today for his
signature.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
[[Page H5234]]
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from the great
State of Kansas (Mr. Estes), my very good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to my good friend from the great
State of Ohio, (Mr. Balderson) for the purpose of a unanimous consent
request.
Mr. BALDERSON. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from
the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
{time}  1230
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentlewoman
from North Carolina (Ms. Foxx), my very good friend, for the purpose of
a unanimous consent request.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
take from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment
thereto, and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill
passed the Senate with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's
desk for his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from the great
State of Tennessee (Mr. David P. Roe), my very good friend, for the
purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to take from the Speaker's table, H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment
thereto, and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill
passed the Senate with 84 votes and should be sent to the President's
desk for his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from the great
State of Tennessee (Mr. Fleischmann), my very good friend, for the
purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from
the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the United
States Senate with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk
for his immediate signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from the great
State of Maryland (Mr. Harris), my very good friend, for the purpose of
a unanimous consent request.
Mr. HARRIS. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from the great
State of Ohio (Mr. Gibbs), my very good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. GIBBS. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
84-8 and could be sent to the President's desk for his signature today.
Let's vote on it.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
the great State of Illinois (Mr. Rodney Davis), my very good friend,
for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to take from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment
thereto, and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill
passed the Senate with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's
desk immediately for his signature.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
the great State of West Virginia (Mr. Mooney), my very good friend, for
the purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to take from the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment
thereto, and concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill
passed the Senate with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's
desk for his signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from the great
State of Alabama (Mr. Byrne), my very good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. BYRNE. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
the great State of Ohio (Mr. Wenstrup), my very good friend, for the
purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk for his
signature today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
the great State of Florida (Mr. Dunn), my very good friend, for the
purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with 84 votes and could be sent to the President's desk today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from the great
State of Texas (Mr. Gooden), my very good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. GOODEN. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from the
Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and
concur in the Senate amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate
with only 6 nay votes from Democrats. There is overwhelming support for
this in the Senate, and I urge my colleagues to join them in passing
this bill today and sending it to the President.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentleman from the great
State of Louisiana (Mr. Johnson), my very good
[[Page H5235]]
friend, for the purpose of a unanimous consent request.
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Madam Speaker, I ask that we do the right
thing here. I ask unanimous consent to take from the Speaker's table
H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto, and concur in the Senate
amendment. This bipartisan bill passed the Senate with 84 votes and
could be sent to the President's desk for his signature today to solve
this crisis.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. As the Chair has previously advised, the
unanimous consent request cannot be entertained.
Point of Order
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, point of order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman will state his point of order.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, has the gentleman from Massachusetts
yielded the floor by taking his seat?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Massachusetts has
reserved his time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield to the distinguished gentleman from
North Dakota (Mr. Armstrong), my very good friend, for the purpose of a
unanimous consent request.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to take from
the Speaker's table H.R. 3401, with the Senate amendment thereto. And
if we would like to talk about accountability and if we would like to
talk about oversight, I would prefer we start right here. Let your
Members vote.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentleman from Massachusetts has not
yielded for that purpose and, therefore, the unanimous consent request
cannot be entertained.
Time will be deducted from the gentleman from Oklahoma.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I think you will be delighted to hear that I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from the great State of Michigan (Mr.
Mitchell).
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, it is nice to know that my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle now recognize it as a crisis.
The President asked 58 days ago for a supplemental appropriation to
deal with this issue. It was ignored. We have tried 18 times to bring
up a bill on the floor to deal with supplemental appropriations for
humanitarian aid at the border, and it was ignored.
My friends on the other side of the aisle said they want to improve
the bill. They want to ignore the fact that the Senate took up the
House bill and overwhelmingly rejected it on a bipartisan basis.
Then they passed a bipartisan bill 84-8, which doesn't happen over
there very often. We have gone through a list of those who voted in
favor, including Senator Schumer and Senator Durbin, yet somehow the
House wants to ignore it. At least the majority in the House want to
ignore it.
How they want to improve the bill, you may ask? Well, let's start by
simply reducing or eliminating border security, that appears to be
optional to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. They want to
take a hatchet to ICE. These are law enforcement personnel.
My son is a police officer. He puts on a vest every day. If you told
me we were going to withhold payroll or overtime when they are doing
the job, I would be offended, I would be disgusted, and I am, at this
moment in time.
Let me ask how many over there would put on a vest, go out and do the
job, and then hear, we may or may not pay you? Do I see any hands
raised? I doubt it.
Law enforcement is struggling to do a job, an extraordinarily tough
job, and we want to make it harder. So let me suggest, as the UC
request was made, that we take up the bill that was passed by the
Senate and we pass it.
And I ask for your attention over there, sir, unless, of course, you
decided that policy is being made by a fragment of your conference,
unless you decided that you are going to turn over the gavel to a
fragment of your conference to make decisions for you, which may well
appear to be the case. But let's be honest to the American people and
tell them that a fragment, a small portion, of your conference is now
functioning as a Speaker of the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to address their
remarks to the Chair.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume. What we just witnessed was really interesting. In the amount
of time that it took my friends on the other side of the aisle to get
through those antics, we could have passed this bill. That is what
urgency looks like. Not political theater. These kids that we are here
to try to protect deserve more than grandstanding. They deserve things
like medicine. They deserve things like soap and clothing.
And my Republican friends say they don't want to waste time, but they
wasted a hell of a lot of time with what we just saw happen.
And just one other observation. In all the other editorial comments
that were made, I didn't hear the word ``children'' mentioned once. I
mean, it is telling, because that is what this debate is all about. It
is not about grandstanding, and it is not about more money for cages to
put kids in. It is about the children. And I am sorry that the children
who are suffering under U.S. custody are such an afterthought.
And to the gentleman from Michigan, I am outraged, too. I am outraged
that the terrible conditions that these kids have been forced to
experience happened under U.S. custody. I am outraged that that would
happen in the United States of America.
Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from Connecticut
(Ms. DeLauro), the distinguished chairwoman of the Appropriations
Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and
Related Agencies.
Ms. DeLAURO. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of this emergency
supplemental bill.
Madam Speaker, the principles guiding this bill were clear from the
outset. It is a response to a humanitarian crisis.
By increasing the housing capacity at Health and Human Services to
moving these vulnerable children from the detention centers at Customs
and Border Protection as quickly as possible to Health and Human
Services, because we know what the conditions are at CBP. They are
deplorable. In fact, it is government-sponsored child abuse.
We wanted to build in the protections for children that have been
nonexistent in the past, and we uncovered those abuses. They have been
reported in the press. The Miami Herald just recently said they are
``prison-like conditions'' at Homestead.
And we wanted to place children with a sponsor in a safe placement, a
safe environment, as expeditiously as possible to reverse the
administration's policy of frightening sponsors to come forward.
This bill includes strong protections and safeguards for these
vulnerable children; it extends to the influx shelters' enhanced
standards of care. And, my friends, it is for the first time ever.
These protections have never been required of these influx shelters.
It continues to prevent the waiving of core standards and protections
after 6 months.
It continues to hold influx shelters accountable by requiring HHS to
remove an operator if they do not comply with these core standards.
{time}  1245
If the shelter is not in compliance, then HHS is required to award
the contract to a new service provider, and the bill continues to
protect sponsors and potential sponsors by extending a provision that
prohibits funds from being used to put anyone into a removal proceeding
based on information from HHS' sponsor-vetting process.
The bill continues to require HHS to maintain the directives that
they issued in December that removed bureaucratic barriers and have
helped to place these children with sponsors as expeditiously as
possible. And the bill continues to require HHS to report to Congress
within 24 hours if an unaccompanied child dies in HHS custody.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield the gentlewoman from Connecticut
an additional 1 minute.
Ms. DeLAURO. Madam Speaker, a child did die in HHS custody. No one
knew about this for 8 months, and it was only the news media that
uncovered it. A child died.
[[Page H5236]]
This bill continues to ensure that Members of Congress can conduct
oversight visits of shelters without being required to provide advance
notice, and the bill continues to protect taxpayer funding by
prohibiting funds from being diverted to programs outside of Health and
Human Services. This bill provides clear direction, legal guardrails,
about how our emergency funds should be used, and this bill wages the
battle for the vulnerable.
Madam Speaker, I urge every Member of this House to support this
bill.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, if we defeat the previous question, I will offer an
amendment to the rule to simply concur in the Senate amendment without
further amendment. This will immediately send the bill to the President
and deliver the necessary resources needed to respond to this
humanitarian crisis.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to insert the text of my
amendment in the Record, along with extraneous material, immediately
prior to the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from Oklahoma?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, let me just say again, we can solve this
problem now.
I respect that my friends have strong feelings about their
legislation. We all do. The reality is that that legislation is not
going to get through the Senate; it is not going to be signed by the
President.
We have a vehicle that has already gotten through the Senate, that 75
percent of the Democrats in the Chamber voted for, including the entire
Democratic leadership, and that could go, if this House would act on
it, straight to the President's desk and be signed into law.
Now, my friends are, I know, concerned about resources. And, again,
it is nice that they are. It would have been nice if, in the 18
previous times we have tried to bring this matter up before the House,
they would have helped. It would have been nice if, 2 months ago, we
had actually seen them respond.
We share their concern for these young people. That is why we asked
for extra resources. The administration asked for extra resources 58
days ago. So I think, again, this ought to be pretty easy to resolve
here.
My friends, with all due respect, have a partisan bill that will pass
along partisan lines in this House, that will not be enacted by the
Senate, and that will not be signed by the President.
The Senate has a bill they have already passed in a bipartisan
fashion. It, frankly, has more money to help the people who are being
paid overtime in the Border Patrol to--
Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair notes a disturbance in the gallery
in contravention of the law and rules of the House. The Sergeant at
Arms will remove those persons responsible for the disturbance and
restore order to the gallery.
The gentleman from Oklahoma may continue.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I want to thank the Speaker personally for
taking control of a difficult situation.
So, Madam Speaker, just to resume my point, we have a vehicle. It
could literally pass on this floor in less than an hour. It could head
to the President. It satisfies almost all--not all, but almost all--of
my friends' concerns. I would just ask them, in all seriousness, to
just consider political reality here and let's get this done and get
these resources to where they are needed. We can do that. We can do it
in a bipartisan fashion.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I include in the Record two articles:
One from Vox, entitled, ``The Horrifying Conditions Facing Kids in
Border Detention, Explained,'' and another from Time magazine,
entitled, ``Lawyers Say Migrant Children Are Living in `Traumatic and
Dangerous' Conditions at Border Detention Site.''
[From Vox, June 25, 2019]
The Horrifying Conditions Facing Kids in Border Detention, Explained
(By Dara Lind)
On any given day, 2,000 children are in Border Patrol
custody, and the problems are hardly confined to one
facility.
At any given time, for the past several weeks, more than
2,000 children have been held in the custody of US Border
Patrol without their parents. Legally, they're not supposed
to be held by border agents for more than 72 hours before
being sent to the Department of Health and Human Services,
which is responsible for finding their nearest relative in
the US to house them while their immigration cases are
adjudicated.
In practice, they're being held for days, sometimes weeks,
in facilities without enough food or toothbrushes--going days
without showering, overcrowded and undercared for.
Late last week, the conditions of that detention in one
facility in Clint, Texas, became public when investigators,
checking on the US government's obligations under the Flores
agreement (which governs the care of immigrant children in US
custody), were so horrified that they turned into public
whistleblowers and spoke to the Associated Press about what
they saw.
The stories they told have horrified much of America. The
past several days have seen growing outrage, and the acting
commissioner of Customs and Border Protection (which oversees
CBP) announced his resignation Tuesday (though officials
maintain the outrage didn't cause the resignation).
But the problem goes beyond one official--or one facility.
The story gained even wider traction after Rep. Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez's (D-NY) reference to the detention facilities
as ``concentration camps,'' and the ensuing debate over
whether that term was appropriate.
The US government's response was to move the children out
of the Clint facility--and move another group of children in.
On Monday, officials confirmed that all 350 of the children
there last week would be moved to other facilities by
Tuesday; about 250 of them have been placed with HHS, and the
remainder are being sent to other Border Patrol facilities.
But on Tuesday morning, a Customs and Border Protection
official told a New York Times reporter on a press call that
about a hundred children were currently being housed at
Clint.
That's illustrative of the hectic improvisation that's
characterized much of the Trump administration's response to
the current border influx. It's a problem that is much, much
bigger than the problems at a single facility. Indeed, the
problems investigators identified at Clint are problems
elsewhere as well.
The lone member of the team of legal investigators who
visited the El Paso facility in which many children were sent
from Clint--called ``Border Patrol Station 1''--told Vox that
conditions there were just as bad as they were in Clint, with
the same problems of insufficient food, no toothbrushes, and
aggressive guards.
The problem isn't the Clint facility. The problem is the
hastily-cobbled-together system of facilities Customs and
Border Protection (the agency which runs Border Patrol) has
thrown together in the last several months, as the
unprecedented number of families and children coming into the
US without papers has overwhelmed a system designed to
swiftly deport single adults.
It is apparent that even an administration acting with the
best interests of children in mind at every turn would be
scrambling right now. But policymakers are split on how much
of the current crisis is simply a resource problem--one
Congress could help by sending more resources--and how much
is deliberate mistreatment or neglect from an administration
that doesn't deserve any more money or trust.
Border Patrol isn't prepared to care for children at all.
It's now housing 2,000 a day.
According to statistics sent to congressional staff last
week and obtained by Vox, between May 14 and June 13, US
Border Patrol facilities were housing over 14,000 people a
day--and sometimes as many as 18,000. (The most recent tally,
as of June 13, was nearly 16,000.)
Most of these were single adults, or parents with children.
But consistently, over that month, around 2,000--2,081 as of
June 13--were ``unaccompanied alien children,'' or children
being held without adult relatives in separate facilities.
In an early June press call, a Customs and Border
Protection official said, referring to the total number of
people in custody, ``when we have 4,000 in custody, we
consider that high. 6,000 is a crisis.''
Traditionally, an ``unaccompanied alien child'' refers to a
child who comes to the US without a parent or guardian.
Increasingly--as lawyers have been reporting, and as the
investigators who interviewed children in detention last week
confirmed--children are coming to the US with a relative who
is not their parent, and being separated.
Because the law defines an ``unaccompanied'' child as
someone without a parent or legal guardian here, border
agents don't have the ability to keep a child with a
grandparent, aunt or uncle, or even a sibling who's over 18,
though advocates have also raised concerns that border agents
are separating relatives even when there is evidence of legal
guardianship.
Under the terms of US law--and especially the 1997 Flores
settlement, which governs the treatment of children in
immigration custody--immigration agents are obligated to get
unaccompanied children out of immigration detention as
quickly as possible, and to keep them in the least
restrictive conditions possible while they're there. Barring
emergencies, children aren't supposed to be
[[Page H5237]]
in Border Patrol custody for more than 72 hours before being
sent to HHS--which is responsible for finding and vetting a
sponsor to house the child (usually their closest relative in
the United States).
That hasn't been happening. Attorneys, doctors, and human
rights observers have consistently reported that children are
being held by Border Patrol for days or longer before being
picked up by HHS. And in the meantime, they're being kept in
facilities that weren't built to hold even adults for that
period of time, or in improvised ``soft-sided'' facilities
that look like (and are commonly referred to as) tents.
The detention conditions crisis doesn't just affect
children. But conditions for children are under special legal
scrutiny.
Since late last year, US immigration agents have been
overwhelmed by the number of families coming across the
border. The US immigration system, which was built to quickly
arrest and deport single Mexican adults crossing into the US
to work, doesn't have the capacity to deal with tens of
thousands of families (mostly from Central America) who are
often seeking asylum in the US.
The length of time migrants are spending in Border Patrol
custody (and the conditions there) have attracted some alarm
before. In April, pictures of migrants being held outside
under a bridge in El Paso, fenced in and sleeping on the
ground, attracted outrage and led Border Patrol to stop
holding migrants there. And in May, the DHS Office of the
Inspector General released an emergency report about
dangerous overcrowding of adults in two facilities: with up
to 900 people being held in a facility designed to hold 125.
Because of the Flores settlement, lawyers have the
opportunity to investigate conditions for children to see if
the government is complying--and possibly ask a judge to
intervene if it is not. That's what spurred the fact-finding
mission that led to last week's stories.
The reports about Clint broke at a time when the Trump
administration was already playing defense about its
compliance with the Flores settlement. (While the
administration is working on a regulation that would
supersede the terms of the agreement, that regulation isn't
expected to be published in final form until fall, and may
well be held up in court.)
In a 9th Circuit Court of Appeals hearing earlier last week
about whether the administration needed to allow a court
appointee to monitor conditions for children in ICE and CBP
custody, Department of Justice lawyer Sarah Fabian told
judges that children didn't necessarily need towels or
toothbrushes to be in ``safe and sanitary'' conditions--a
clip that looked especially bad when the Clint stories came
out showing the children were being denied just that.
The court hearing was not specifically about the Clint
facility--it wasn't about what investigators found last week
at all. And as Ken White explained for the Atlantic, Fabien's
cringeworthy ``safe and sanitary'' argument came from the
awkward stance the Trump administration has taken in this
litigation: In order to challenge the court appointment of a
special monitor, they argued that there's a difference
between a promise to keep kids in ``safe and sanitary''
conditions (which the government has agreed to for decades)
and a guarantee of particular items like toothbrushes.
The court appeared unimpressed. And the stories about Clint
and other facilities that have come out in the ensuing days
certainly bolstered the case that the Trump administration
has either willingly violated its agreement to keep kids safe
and healthy, or has been unable to keep it--or a mix of both.
The problem isn't Clint.
The problems that investigators identified at Clint--too
many people, not enough food, no toothbrushes--weren't
inherent to that facility. They were indications of an
overloaded (or neglected) system.
And it's already clear that those problems go beyond Clint.
ABC News obtained testimony from a doctor who visited
another facility for children in Texas--the Ursula facility--
and witnessed ``extreme cold temperatures, lights on 24 hours
a day, no adequate access to medical care, basic sanitation,
water, or adequate food.'' She said the conditions were so
bad that they were ``tantamount to intentionally causing the
spread of disease.''
The children are now being sent from Clint to a facility
that is just as bad, according to Clara Long of Human Rights
Watch, who was the only member of last week's investigative
team who visited it.
Long told Vox that when she was there, the facility in El
Paso known as ``Border Patrol Station 1'' was mostly being
used as a transit center where migrants were staying only a
few hours before going elsewhere. But she spoke to one family
who had been held in a cell there for six days, and who
voiced the same concerns that children in the Clint facility
did.
The mother of the family, Long said, was so ashamed of not
having clean teeth--the El Paso facility, like Clint, wasn't
providing enough toothbrushes--that ``when she was talking to
you she would put her hand up in front of her mouth and
wouldn't take it down.'' The teenage son said he was afraid
of the guards because when he'd gotten up to go to the
bathroom in the middle of the night, a guard had shoved him
back into his cell and slammed the door on him. For two
nights, the family had had to sleep on the cold floor without
blankets.
The fundamental question: Why is it taking so long to get
kids out of custody--and is it happening on purpose?
Most of the children who were at Clint when the team
visited last week--about 250 of the 350--were set to be sent
to HHS custody by Tuesday.
Questions remain about what is happening to the other 1,750
or so children who were in Border Patrol detention on
Thursday if levels have remained static since mid-June, and
why the government was able to place only 250 children over
five days with the agency that's supposed to take
responsibility for all children within 72 hours.
It's not clear where the bureaucratic breakdown really is--
and whether it's the result of resource constraints or
choices about how resources are used.
The Trump administration definitely has made a choice to
keep single adults in detention, even if it could release
them. Border Patrol chief Carla Provost has told Congress
that ``if we lose (the ability to keep and deport) single
adults, we lose the border.'' That does raise questions about
whether the overcrowding in adult facilities could be
avoided.
But it doesn't address the issue of unaccompanied children,
who can't simply be released with a notice to appear in
immigration court. While children with parents in the US
could theoretically be placed with those parents, the
government is supposed to vet potential sponsors to make sure
it's not placing children with traffickers--but that's the
job of HHS, and the vetting doesn't begin until children are
released from Border Patrol custody.
Observers and policymakers agree that HHS simply doesn't
have the capacity to take migrant kids in. One Democratic
Hill staffer compared it to a ``jigsaw puzzle'': Not only are
there only so many spaces available to place a child, but the
facilities available might not match the child's particular
needs. (You can't put an infant in an HHS shelter for teens,
for example.) But another Hill staffer told Vox that HHS
claims it's never refused a transfer for space reasons,
muddying the waters.
Then there's the question of whether CBP is really doing
all it can to care for kids in the time they're in CBP's
care.
One of the Clint observers told Isaac Chotiner of the New
Yorker stories of cruelty from some guards, indicating that
they were deliberately punishing children for the sin of
coming to the US without papers. But she also said that many
guards were sympathetic, and told the observers that children
shouldn't be in their custody--implying that they were doing
the best they could and simply didn't have the resources to
do more. (Advocates also say they've tried to donate supplies
to Border Patrol facilities but had their donations rejected;
it's not clear if this was a Border Patrol decision, or if
there's a legal complication banning outside donations.)
Congress is considering a package right now to give the
Trump administration billions more dollars to deal with
migrants coming into the US. To Democratic leadership,
including the appropriators led by Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard
(D-CA), who drafted the House version of the supplemental
package, the solution to poor conditions in custody is to
provide more money specifically to improve those conditions.
They emphasize that the bulk of the funding will go to HHS to
increase capacity for migrant kids and that funding for ICE
and CBP will be strictly limited to humanitarian use.
But to some progressives, led in Congress by Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez, giving any money to immigration enforcement
agencies right now is an endorsement of the current state of
affairs.
The not-one-more-dime camp, in part, is taking a bright-
line stance against the detention of children. But in part,
they're demonstrating a lack of trust in the administration
to adhere to any law or condition. And they assume that any
money given to ICE for transit of migrant kids will, in some
way or another, encourage ICE to detain more families and
arrest more immigrants in the United States.
The ``smart money'' camp, on the other hand, believes
firmly that without funds to improve conditions in detention,
the conditions will only get worse.
That's especially relevant in the case of kids deemed
``unaccompanied,'' who have to remain in custody until a
sponsor is found. The past few days have demonstrated that
those children are extremely vulnerable and that much of the
American public wants their situation to change. It just may
not be clear how.
____
[From Time, June 20, 2019]
Lawyers Say Migrant Children Are Living in `Traumatic and Dangerous'
Conditions at Border Detention Site
(By Ccedar Attanasio, Garance Burke and Martha Mendoza)
Clint, Texas.--In a tiny Texas town about a half-hour drive
from El Paso, a nondescript Border Patrol station operated
for six years primarily as a hub for agents on patrol,
drawing little scrutiny from immigration attorneys who have
been loudly advocating against mass U.S. detention camps that
can hold more than 2,000 teens at a time.
And so attorneys visiting the Border Patrol station in
Clint, Texas, this week said they were shocked to find more
than 250 infants, children and teens inside the complex of
windowless buildings, trying to care for each other with what
they described as inadequate food, water and sanitation.
``This facility wasn't even on our radar before we
[[Page H5238]]
came down here,'' said law professor Warren Binford, a member
of the team that has interviewed 60 detainees in Clint.
Binford's group warned that because Customs and Border
Protection facilities are overwhelmed with migrants, they
feared similar situations could be unfolding elsewhere.
Attorney Toby Gialluca, who visited teens and their babies
last week in a McAllen, Texas, Border Patrol station, said
everyone she interviewed was very sick with high fevers,
coughing, and wearing soiled clothes crusted with mucus and
dirt after their long trip north. Fifteen kids at Clint had
the flu, another 10 were quarantined. ``Everyone is sick.
Everyone. They're using their clothes to wipe mucus off the
children, wipe vomit off the children. Most of the little
children are not fully clothed,'' she said.
Migrant teens in McAllen told her they were offered frozen
ham sandwiches and rotten food, Gialluca said. In both
stations, the children told attorneys that guards instructed
girls as young as age 8 to care for the babies and toddlers.
Border Patrol stations are designed to hold people for less
than three days, but some children held in Clint and McAllen
have been in there for weeks. Legally, migrants under 18
should be moved into Office of Refugee Resettlement care
within 72 hours.
But federal officials have said they have hit a breaking
point, with too many migrant children and nowhere to put
them. That's in part because over the last year, migrant
children have been staying longer in federal custody than
they had historically, meaning there are fewer shelter beds
in the separate Office of Refugee and Resettlement program
where kids are sent from the Border Patrol stations.
Unlike privately contracted child detention facilities,
Border Patrol stations are federal facilities, exempt from
state health and safety standards, according to Texas
Department of Health and Human Services spokesman John
Reynolds. Child abuse and neglect investigators are not
allowed to investigate the stations because they not licensed
by the state.
In Clint, Binford described that during interviews with
children in a conference room at the facility, ``little kids
are so tired they have been falling asleep on chairs and at
the conference table.'' An 8-year-old taking care of a very
small 4-year-old with matted hair could not convince the
younger girl to take a shower, Binford said.
The lawyers inspected the Border Patrol facilities as part
of a President Bill Clinton-era legal agreement known as the
Flores settlement that governs detention conditions for
migrant children and families.
Neha Desai, director of Immigration at the National Center
for Youth Law, said Friday that the U.S. government,
attorneys involved in the Flores settlement and an
independent monitor appointed by the judge overseeing the
Flores settlement are in conversation about the situation of
children held in McAllen and Clint.
The Clint facility opened in 2013 with little fanfare on a
country road not far from the town's water tower, a liquor
store and the sandwich shop where Border Patrol agents eat
lunch and dinner. The advocate lawyers who negotiated access
to the complex said Border Patrol officials knew of their
impending visit three weeks in advance.
Customs and Border Protection officials had no immediate
comment, but have said for months that the agency is at its
breaking point for housing migrants, calling the situation in
the El Paso area a humanitarian and security crisis.
In an interview earlier this week with The Associated
Press, Customs and Border Protection John Sanders
acknowledged that children died after being in the agency's
care, and said Border Patrol stations are currently holding
15,000 people--more than three times their maximum capacity
of 4,000.
He urged Congress to pass a $4.6 billion emergency funding
package includes nearly $3 billion to care for unaccompanied
migrant children.
A migrant father, speaking on condition of anonymity
because of his immigration status, said he did not know where
his daughter was until one of the attorneys visiting Clint
this week found his phone number written in permanent marker
on a bracelet the girl was wearing. ``She's suffering very
much because she's never been alone. She doesn't know these
other children,'' her father said.
Republican Congressman Will Hurd, whose district includes
Clint, said ``tragic conditions'' playing out on the southern
border were pushing government agencies, nonprofits and Texas
communities to the limit.
``This latest development just further demonstrates the
immediate need to reform asylum laws and provide supplemental
funding to address the humanitarian crisis at our border,''
he said.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, before I yield to our next speaker, I
would remind my colleagues that a vote to defeat the previous question
really isn't a vote to bring up the Senate bill. It is a vote to give
control of the House floor to the Republicans.
They say they would bring up the Senate bill, but there is absolutely
no guarantee that they would. They could bring up a bill to fund a
wall, for all we know.
Madam Speaker, we are here to find a way to alleviate the suffering
of these children at our border and not to play political games. So I
would urge my colleagues to make sure that they vote ``yes'' on the
previous question.
And, by the way, I just say to my colleague from Oklahoma, a lot of
us aren't satisfied with the Senate bill the way it has been drafted
because there are protections that we want to see in that bill because,
quite frankly, speaking for myself, I don't trust this administration.
I don't trust this administration to do the right thing, an
administration that separated--knowingly and deliberately separated--
children from their parents at the border, an administration that
tolerated the conditions that have horrified the entire country.
So I want it clear that the moneys that we are appropriating are
going to help children, not to continue this insane inhumane policy
that has horrified this Nation.
I won't trust this administration to tell me the correct time, at
this particular point. So, no, we are not satisfied. We want more
protections in here for the children. We want more transparency. The
American people, I think, expect that. We should provide them that
information.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from California
(Mrs. Torres), the distinguished member of the Rules Committee.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam Speaker, I rise in support of the
rule.
Yes, indeed, we have a responsibility to act. As Speaker Pelosi has
said, we must do this for the sake of the children, and I thank her for
not capitulating to the Senate demands for a blank check.
When I reflect on the number of deaths that we have seen at the
border, when I reflect on the horrific conditions in facilities where
children are being held in ice-cold cells with no one to care for them
but a child stranger--conditions in these facilities are horrific--I
ask myself: Is this the America that I came to as a young child? Is
this the America that my son swore to protect when he joined the U.S.
Air Force? This surely isn't the country that welcomed me as a young
child from Guatemala.
But we must work toward that American ideal that we all share. We
cannot simply allocate funds to agencies where we have seen numerous
children die in their custody.
No blank checks.
No more torturing of babies.
No more separating infants from their mothers.
This legislation brings funds to the children that are urgently
needed.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield the gentlewoman an additional 30
seconds.
Mrs. TORRES of California. It brings more transparency to CBP and ICE
and HHS, and it contains important provisions to protect children. It
ensures that the emergency funding that Congress provides is spent on
what it is intended for and not the President's deportation force.
So I look forward to supporting this rule, and I urge all of my
colleagues to join me in doing so.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the distinguished
gentlewoman from Arizona (Mrs. Lesko), my very good friend and
distinguished member of the Rules Committee.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, well, here we are again, and I talked on
this before.
I am from the State of Arizona, so border security is top and center
of the discussion in Arizona and it has, quite frankly, been for years.
We have all known there has been a crisis at our border for many,
many years, and that is why I am at least hopeful and inspired a little
bit that my Democratic colleagues are actually admitting--finally--that
there is a crisis at our border. So that is good.
The thing that is bad about this rule today is that I just don't
understand. I guess some of my Democratic colleagues are just being
stubborn because, on the one hand, you have the Senate that already
passed an overwhelmingly bipartisan bill, where Senator Schumer voted
for it. You have a President who said we are not in favor of this House
version of the bill.
So here you have a President who, seemingly, is willing to sign the
Senate bill; you have a Senate bill that has vast bipartisan support,
even with the
[[Page H5239]]
top leadership in the Democrat Party; but, yet, here we are in the
House, and I guess Members just want to make sure they have what they
want in their bill, even if it is not going to pass and even if the
money isn't going to actually get to solving the problem.
And so I ask my Democrat colleagues to put your stubbornness a little
bit aside, because if we all have the goal, as has been said on both
sides, to help solve this problem, to help with the children who are
dying at the border, you know--what was it? Yesterday we saw the
picture of the father and the daughter, and then June 14, we had a
story in Arizona of a young 7-year-old girl who died, and the Arizona
Air National Guard helped find and rescued other members of the party.
I think we are united in trying to solve the problem, and I am glad
that my Democrats finally say there is a crisis, to have acknowledged
it.
But if you really want to help, let's stop this. Okay. Let's stop
what you are doing, because I don't think you are going to win. You
have the President on one side, the Senate on one side with bipartisan
support, including Mr. Schumer, and yet we are here today, right before
the July Fourth recess, and instead of giving in and saying let's just
put up the Senate bill that we know is going to pass, that we know is
going to help, you continue to, I guess, try to make a point.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield the gentlewoman from Arizona an
additional 30 seconds.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I sincerely hope the Members have made
their points, have made their talking points. Now let's get down to the
business of doing what we are supposed to do in Congress: Pass a bill,
pass the bipartisan Senate bill, but, also, let's work together on
actually reforming our immigration laws, the root of the problem that
is causing this problem, so we are not back here in 6 months or 1 year
doing this again.
{time}  1300
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I would like to remind the gentlewoman
that we are members of the Democratic Party, not the Democrat Party,
and I would appreciate it if we were characterized correctly.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
Mucarsel-Powell).
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam Speaker, I rise today in support of this
rule.
Right now, there are thousands of children detained in temporary
facilities, facilities like the ones in Homestead, which is right in
the middle of my district. We have no answers. We have no idea of when
these kids are going to be released. It is an overcrowded facility,
with kids who are sleeping in warehouse areas on bunk beds, of more
than 144 kids.
They are living in prison-like conditions. Many have been there for
months. These kids should not be detained without their freedom and
their rights. What we are asking from the Senate are reasonable
requests for the safety and for the well-being of thousands of
children.
We have to pass these provisions put forth by the House. We must put
in writing that no child can be held and detained in a temporary
facility like Homestead for more than 90 days.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentlewoman from Florida.
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam Speaker, many of the children have
families living right here in the United States that they could be
reunited with. But those who are running the facilities have no
incentive for reuniting them.
The Senate bill does not have a timeline. The Senate bill is
inadequate. We must pass the House-amended bill.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I know my friends are aware of this, but the Senate bill is
actually--well, I certainly would vote for it. I think it would have
overwhelming support on our side. The President, in the past, has
expressed some concerns, and that is an important thing, but the Senate
has really worked through a lot of these differences.
The bill that we would like to see put on this floor and that we know
would pass with overwhelming, bipartisan support is a product of
compromise, so much compromise that the entire Democratic leadership
felt comfortable voting for it.
With all due respect to my friends, their bill is not the product of
compromise. It is not going to get very many Republican votes here, if
any. I would be surprised, frankly, if it did. It is not going to get
accepted by the United States Senate. It absolutely won't be signed by
the President of the United States.
We are all concerned about the conditions. We have been expressing
that concern for 8 weeks. We never called this a manufactured crisis.
We never said that this was made up for political purposes. The
administration recognized it 8 weeks ago.
We have tried multiple times to get this House to focus on it. I am
very pleased that we finally reached a point that both sides are
focusing on it. But we also ought to focus on what is possible to
achieve in a limited timeframe.
We know we are running out of money. We know there are real-life
consequences to that. They are starting to unfold right now. There are
services being cut back. For a lot of these conditions, frankly, we
ought to look in the mirror, as Congress, and ask why we didn't get
these resources there a long time ago.
Frankly, the House rule that we are discussing on the House bill,
that bill actually reduces resources at the border. It doesn't expand
them. It reduces them. It reduces them also for the American military.
That is part of it.
The Senate bill, in my view, frankly, is much superior to my friends'
product, but it has one virtue above all: All we have to do is put it
on the floor and pass it, and it goes to the President of the United
States to be signed immediately. Resources begin to move to where they
are desperately needed immediately.
That is not true with my friends' bill. All it does is reopen the
dialogue with the Senate, where it has very little prospect of passing.
Then, frankly, if it did pass--not likely--it would be vetoed.
I am befuddled, Madam Speaker, that they are pursuing a goal that
they know will not work, but we have seen this time and time again. It
is more important to get a bill across the floor in a partisan fashion
than it is to put something on the floor that is bipartisan, that can
pass the Senate and come into law.
Now, my friends know we live in an era of divided government, and we
have wasted 6 months, in my view, dealing with a lot of things that we
knew would never pass. But I respect my friends' right to bring their
agenda to the floor.
This is different. This is a national emergency. It has to pass. We
have one vehicle where it can be passed and be signed so that help can
go immediately. We have my friends' vehicle, which I know they believe
in passionately, and I respect that, but it can't pass.
It is pretty simple. Sooner or later, I hope we get to the obvious
answer and pass the Senate bill and send it to the President.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. Tlaib).
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I take offense to my colleague from Arizona
saying we are not going to win. This is not a game. These are people's
lives.
When my colleague says we need to try, we have tried. I am asking
them to try harder because we are creating a whole generation of
children, Madam Speaker, who will remember what we did. They will
remember that we caged them up like animals. We ripped them away from
their parents and pumped them with drugs to make them stop crying for
their mothers.
No amount of apologizing and no amount of debating in this Chamber
will make it better, Madam Speaker. I am asking my colleagues to be
more humane, to debate real policy change that will address the crisis
at the border, like comprehensive immigration reform.
We must do better for these children. Again, no amount of
apologizing, no amount of debating, no amount of politicking will make
it better.
[[Page H5240]]
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I will just make the same point I have been making for days on end.
We have something that can pass versus something that can't. I don't
doubt for a minute that my friends are sincere in their concerns, but I
also respect my colleagues on the other side of the rotunda in the
United States Senate. I think they are sincere, too.
They have worked through and found a way to get something that got 84
votes. Three-quarters of the Democratic minority in the Senate voted
for it. The entire Democratic leadership voted for it. The President
has signaled that he will sign it.
We can continue the debates on some of these other things at a later
point. My friends might want to come back with another piece of
legislation addressing some of their concerns that they think are not
appropriately addressed in the Senate bill. But the reality is that is
the bill that can pass. The bill that they want to bring to this floor
cannot.
We all agree there is a crisis. We all agree we need resources there.
I think my friends know, if they would just put the Senate bill on the
floor, it could pass, and it would go to the President.
We can continue to have this debate. We can even end it, launch some
vehicle over to the Senate, and waste more time. That is all it will
be, a waste of time.
I would hope we have all had our say. We all feel strongly about our
points, but let's agree on the one thing we know can pass and the
President would sign, which would get us resources and relief
immediately on the border where we desperately need it.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding,
and I appreciate the gentleman from Oklahoma, but I am an optimist.
More importantly, I stand here in the name of Mr. Ramirez and his
little, baby girl who were found on the shores of the Rio Grande. The
question is: How did they wind up there? They wound up there because of
this administration's policies that rejected them as they stood on the
Brownsville-Matamoros International Bridge.
There was no reason to say the bridge was closed. They had a legal
right to claim asylum, fleeing from the horrible violence of El
Salvador. Yet, they could not stand there, and so this is their end.
I am supporting this bill because I believe we should not settle for
just anything. This bill particularly provides for the requirements
that have additional resources for these children so that they don't
die, so that they do have toothpaste, that they are clean, that they
are living in clean places. It acknowledges that children cannot be
held like cattle in one place beyond 90 days, that you must find their
family members, and, yes, there are family members.
This is a process that has been the law of the land and the
international law for decades. It is an asylum that can be sought so
the Nation can address it. It takes no one's place. It does nothing to
hurt this Nation.
I support the underlying legislation because, in the name of Mr.
Ramirez and his child, we must do what is right.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I personally thank my good friend, the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
Jackson Lee), for the professional and very patient manner in which she
handled the Chair and presided over this body. I wanted to recognize
that.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the distinguished gentleman from
New York (Mr. Katko), my very good friend.
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, I, too, want to recognize my colleague from
Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee) for having the coolest scarf in the House
today, the American flag.
Bipartisanship has broken out in the Senate. They passed H.R. 3401,
as amended, 84-8.
I am now happy to report to the House that bipartisanship has broken
out on the floor of the House of Representatives, for I am announcing
that 23 Democrats and 23 Republicans from the Problem Solvers Caucus
have just issued the following statement: ``Given the humanitarian
crisis at the border, the Problem Solvers Caucus is asking for the
immediate consideration on the House floor today of H.R. 3401, as
amended by the Senate.''
We now are certain that H.R. 3401 will pass. I ask us to let the
bipartisanship spread to the rest of this House and put an end to this
now, once and for all, and get the help to the border that is so badly
needed.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, may I inquire how much time is
remaining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms. Jackson Lee). The gentleman from
Massachusetts has 4 minutes remaining. The gentleman from Oklahoma has
8\1/4\ minutes remaining.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr. Cardenas).
Mr. CARDENAS. Madam Speaker, I have the honor and privilege to be
born as an American citizen. There are billions of people around the
world who don't have that privilege, that honor, and that blessing.
Today, I get to exercise my privilege as a Member of Congress to
bring my two grandchildren, ages 1 and 3, to the floor of the House of
Representatives. It is a very emotional moment for me because when I
see their beautiful brown eyes, I see their grandparents who were born
in another country, and I see their great-grandparents born in another
country, just like many people on this House floor whose grandparents
and great-grandparents came from Germany, Guatemala, Mexico, or any
other place on the planet.
We are fighting to do what is right, to do what is right for the gold
standard that the world has seen in the United States of America, a
place of hope and a place of future for people who are fleeing
persecution for religious reasons or otherwise to be able to come to
this country, kiss the ground that they walk on, and start anew.
My beautiful grandkids get to be American citizens because somebody
made the journey sometime before them.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentleman from California.
Mr. CARDENAS. Madam Speaker, I will close by saying this: The United
States of America has always been the gold standard, and that is the
argument that we are making here today.
This is not a game. We are fighting for the lives of human beings who
should have the opportunity to be just like every person on this floor:
to be allowed the freedom to be who they choose to be, who God made
them to be, by being in the greatest place on the planet. That is why
we are fighting today.
{time}  1315
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the distinguished
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Stivers), who is my good friend.
Mr. STIVERS. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding. We
have a crisis on our southern border, and H.R. 3401 with the Senate
amendments gets resources to give humanitarian assistance to those
seeking asylum.
It also adds judges and judge teams to hear the claims of asylum.
Many people have to wait up to 3 years to get their hearing. That is
too long. I have twice in the last 2 weeks attempted to offer an
amendment to add judge teams. Both times, the Rules Committee has
failed to include it.
My amendment this week would have included the amount that was in the
Senate bill, but it is now in the bill because we have the Senate bill
sitting at the Speaker's desk.
I urge my colleagues to take up the bill with the Senate amendments
that include judge teams. That is the only way to solve this real
crisis: adjudicate the claims of these people who want asylum, reunite
families, and stop people from being held in detention as long.
Mr. Gonzalez from Texas and I have worked together on this. It is a
bipartisan effort. This is a no-brainer. We need to add judges. The
Senate bill does that.
Madam Speaker, I hope we can take up the Senate bill and make it
happen.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
[[Page H5241]]
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, in closing, I urge opposition to this rule. Once
again, the majority is making the exact same mistake it made earlier
this week. We have a bipartisan bill already approved by the Senate.
The House should simply take it up and work its will on that bill.
Frankly, we all know, if that bill were allowed to come to the floor,
it would pass overwhelmingly with a majority of each side voting in
favor of it. Then it wouldn't have to go back to the Senate. It would
go immediately to the President of the United States. He could sign it,
and these resources would begin to flow.
Now, again, we have had a robust debate today, and I respect the
passions on both sides and every point of view about this. Actually, I
see a great deal of common agreement. We agree, which we did not 8
weeks ago, that there is an emergency on the southern border. We agree
it is a humanitarian crisis. We agree there need to be resources that
go there immediately. We agree that time is short.
We are also all elected officials who are privileged to be in this
Chamber, and my experience with my friends on both sides of the aisle
is that they are basically pretty practical people. They came here to
solve problems. They have different viewpoints, but they are almost
always very practical and try to get something done.
We know the Senate bill is not everything that my side would want. We
certainly know it is not everything that my friend's side would want.
But we know it is bipartisan. We know three-quarters of the Democrats
in the other Chamber voted for it. We know it will pass.
With all due respect to my friends, they have clung so tightly to
their bill, which I know they believe in. It will pass here, but it
won't pass the Senate, and it certainly won't be signed by the
President.
Where will we be if we continue down the road that they are laying
out in front of us?
I know they are sincerely concerned about children on the border, but
we are better off with a bill that passes so we have billions of
dollars moving to where they are supposed to go, and a bill, by the
way, that the entire Democratic leadership thought was appropriate and
good enough.
Let's not sit here and make the perfect the enemy of the good. Let's
be practical and deliver to the American people what they want, which
is a solution, a solution that both parties will vote for and a
solution that the President will sign.
How many times do we go home and hear that from our own constituents:
Can't you guys get together and do anything? Can't you work together?
Can't you put aside your differences and put the American people first?
It pains me as a House Member to admit it, I suppose, but the United
States Senate did that in this case before we did. We can accept that
and move on, and my friends can continue to fight for the things they
believe. It is not as if, for these things that are in this bill that
the administration won't accept, they can't wrap them up again and put
them back in another bill and start the process.
If we do not act, the resources will not get to the border where they
are needed, and these conditions that concern us all will continue.
I urge us to step back a little bit, accept that in this case the
Senate has a bipartisan solution that will work, and for goodness'
sake, just put it on the floor to see what happens.
We know what will happen. My friends will vote for it in overwhelming
numbers. My friends on my side of the aisle will vote for it in
overwhelming numbers. It will go straight to the President of the
United States.
That isn't going to solve the problem, but it is going to ease the
problem, and that is going to move us in the right direction and
provide our very hard-pressed people--who are working this problem by
caring for the migrants, trying to protect our borders, and trying to
provide justice--the resources they need to continue to work on this
problem while, frankly, we continue to try to arrive at a legislative
solution.
Madam Speaker, I want to end with a point I made just a little bit
earlier. I thank the Chair for the patient and professional manner in
which she has allowed us to conduct this debate. I thank her very much
for making sure that when we had an outside disturbance, it was quickly
dealt with.
I urge my friends to reconsider and, hopefully, come together around
a bill that neither of us thinks is perfect but both of us could
probably vote for and the President could sign.
Madam Speaker, I thank my good friend, the chairman of the Rules
Committee, for his participation in debate. It is always helpful and
always enlightening. He is a good friend and a person I admire a great
deal, even when we differ on a particular issue.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. McGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I think what is so frustrating to so
many of us is that there is controversy around language to guarantee
the protection of these children. The reason we think that is important
is because this administration has ignored all the warnings.
We have had whistleblowers talk about the abuse at the border and how
these children were being mistreated, and they did nothing.
This administration oversaw a policy of literally tearing children
away from their parents. As a dad, I can't imagine what that must be
like for any of those parents, and yet this administration thought it
was fine.
We have a crisis at the border largely as a result of this
President's policies. We need to deal with it, and we need to deal with
it now. But we want to make sure we are actually dealing with the
crisis and not giving him more money to create other crises.
I appreciate what the gentleman from Oklahoma said about the need for
us to continue to work together, and while these negotiations are
continuing.
Madam Speaker, I withdraw the resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The resolution is withdrawn.
____________________