[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 81 (Wednesday, May 10, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2864-S2865]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Unanimous Consent Request--Authority for Committee to Meet
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I have a request for the Indians Affairs
Committee to meet today at 2:30 p.m.
First, we have a markup in the Indian Affairs Committee. The two
bills we are marking up are Democrat-sponsored bills. The first one is
Senator Tester's bill, from the State of Montana, which would provide
support for Native languages. I guess the summary is that it would
support the education of Indian children. I believe it relates to
Native languages in that educational capacity. So that is one of the
bills, Senator Tester's bill.
The other bill we are marking up is Senator Tim Kaine's bill, also a
Democrat-sponsored bill. The short narrative I have is this: To extend
Federal recognition to the Chickahominy Indian Tribe, the Chicahominy
Indian Tribe-Eastern Division, the Upper Mattaponi Tribe, the
Rappahonnock Tribe, the Monacan Indian Nation, and the Nansemond Indian
Tribe.
The reason that is significant, that is something that both Senator
Kaine and Senator Warner--both Senators from Virginia--have been
working on for some time. The reason it is timely is that they have
Pocahontas's birthday celebration coming up, which I think is going to
be a large celebration in the Commonwealth of Virginia. They were
hoping to have these Tribes recognized before this birthday celebration
for Pocahontas. It is a timely issue.
Obviously, we can't advance the bill to the Senate floor unless we
mark it up. At the request of those two Democratic Senators from the
Commonwealth of Virginia, we are scheduled to mark up those bills and
get them to the floor and try to do it in a timely way because of the
celebration they are trying to get prepared for. Everybody knows the
story of Pocahontas and why that would be a big celebration and
certainly a big deal in the Commonwealth of Virginia.
Again, as we debate this on the Senate floor, I think Senator Daines
made some strong points, and I would certainly appeal to our colleagues
across the aisle to consider what I just described as far as those
markups.
In addition to those markups, we also have a hearing on several
bills. The first one is a McCain bill, and it is to amend the PROTECT
Act to make Indian Tribes eligible for AMBER Alert grants.
Everybody knows what the AMBER Alert Program is and how important
that program is to protect our young people when they get abducted. The
reason Senator McCain, from Arizona, is bringing this bill forward is
because there was an abduction in Arizona, and the AMBER Alert went out
late. I
[[Page S2865]]
think the AMBER Alert went out a day late.
Senator McCain has this PROTECT Act so we can make sure the AMBER
Alert is working in Indian Country, and you certainly can understand
how important it is that we do that. We have to have a hearing on the
bill again so we can advance the bill to the Senate floor for
consideration.
The final bill that we would have a hearing on in committee, if we
are allowed to meet, is a Murkowski bill, Senator Murkowski from
Alaska. It would provide the conveyance of certain property in this
State.
You have to realize that the witnesses--and I think certainly the
good Senator from Hawaii will appreciate this--had to come here from
Alaska, which is quite a lengthy trip. When the Senator travels back
home to Hawaii, that is a long trip. It is certainly a beautiful place
but a long trip to get there. Of course, it is not inexpensive to
travel from Alaska to Washington, DC.
Those witnesses will be out their costs to come here if we are not
able to have the hearing, and we would have to reschedule it. That
certainly creates a cost burden for them, which is certainly unfair and
not what they would want to have had happen on the part of their
government.
I am putting that in human terms. Again, we are talking about two
Democratic bills, and we are talking about two Republican bills. We are
talking about constituents who have traveled a long way to come here to
have the hearing and the markup.
Again, these are issues we should be able to work on in a bipartisan
way. I would certainly ask for that consideration. At this point, I ask
for unanimous consent that our committee be allowed to meet.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
The Senator from Hawaii.
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, reserving the right to object, of course
we acknowledge the importance of the matters raised by my colleague
from North Dakota and, representing my State, the State of Hawaii, yes,
there is support for education of Native people, of Native children,
which I hope will include Native Hawaiian children. That is important
as well as recognizing various Indian Tribes and the other matters that
were raised by my friend from North Dakota.
However, as I mentioned, these are not business-as-usual times. The
untoward firing of the FBI Director, who was conducting an ongoing
investigation into Russian attempts to interfere with our Democracy and
the Trump team's ties to those attempts, should be a matter of national
concern, should be a matter of concern to every single Member of the
Senate.
This is not a Republican or a Democratic concern. This is a threat to
our democracy. We know Russia did this. We know we need to get to the
bottom of this. We need to get to the bottom of the Trump team's ties
to these efforts, and this thinly veiled attempt by President Trump to
derail or disrupt these investigations cannot be sustained or
supported.
We continue to ask for a bipartisan call for a special prosecutor who
will conduct an impartial, thorough investigation, untainted by
political considerations into the Russia-Trump matter. Therefore, Mr.
President, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Senator from Minnesota.