material in it. so without further ado, congressman issa is a successful businessman, entrepreneur, former army captain, and now leader of the conservative resurgence that is really sparking up in southern california. i have firsthand knowledge. great things are happening. people are angry. they have gone from fear fearful to concerned to angry and things are happening. i assure you good stuff is coming out of california and we will bring that state back, especially the leadership of congressman darryl issa. please welcome him. this feels like reagan country. tim, thank you very much. it is not often i get an introduction that does not read from my old bio and it is really enjoyable not to talk about what i did in the past, but to talk about what we are doing here today. this is an exciting time for conservatives. scarcely a year ago, there was questions. questions about whether or not we were our ideas were out of favor. whether or not change was a change very different than the one that is being talked about here today. today, however, we are watching a movement that promises us that in fact the american people are with us. they want the ideas that made this country great and strong. the experiment in liberty, the george washington, thomas jefferson, james madison conceived of over 230 years ago, has stood the test of time and today is invoked like never before. please, feel free. now as tim said, i have the honor of overseeing the watchdog committee of congress. now some would say that the chairman of that committee oversees it, but the chairman of that committee is the party of the speaker, the party of the president, and the party that in fact is not going to oversee itself, it is going to basically apologize for this president to spend for this president. so i am the luckiest man in washington. i am lucky in a strange, strange way. i am lucky that the president shall candidate i did not vote for. in fact, got elected. now that kind of luck i can do without. and as dick cheney said to this group the other day, this is a one-term president we trust. but our standard that has sustained us for 230 years is the standard checks and balances. and so i am honored that at a time in which the party of the majority and the party of the president has ideas very different than those here, very different than the ideas that allowed us to survive and come out of the depression, which was free market and private enterprise, the policies that allowed us to defeat the soviet communism and to end it once and for all, which of course was strong national defense. the party and the principles that allowed us to be a shining light of liberty around the world, not in fact a collective for the greater good, willing to co-op our ideas in order to fit in in a ever more socialistic world. as a young kid growing up in a working class neighborhood in cleveland, ohio, there we go. a little bit for cleveland, please. i always take something from dan lungren, which is that he said when he was running for governor in california the new weather pioneers kept moving west. and by the way, it was not the great parks, the great museums, the great educational capabilities that drove them from cleveland. it was just the weather. and those of you who have gone for a walk today on the snow-filled sidewalks here know there is a reason that this place is not always a warm swamp. and in the year of global warming we have had four of 14 of the worst snowstorms since 1870. perhaps when the hot air leaves this town that is what happens. but the opportunities that i had, even though i left in my senior year of high school to go to the army and did not get a high school diploma and got a ged, the army scholarship and the opportunity to graduate from college, be commissioned, learn skills that have worked for me throughout my business career and today are still being used here in congress. all of that comes because in this country all one needs is a belief in our principles and a willingness to work and the opportunities have always been there and will always be there. before you leave i would ask you all to provide a few dollars to the metro or the cabs here and go down to the 1600 pennsylvania avenue and then go up to the nation's capital. our founding fathers knew that in fact what would oversee our government was the house of the people, the congress, a place where every two years we go back and we face you, the voters. we go back and ask you how we are doing and we are so often told quite rightfully we should do better and do better we will. this administration needs the scrutiny of my committee. i have been privileged to lead a group of individuals not to be the leader but to lead this group of individuals who have done great research, who have leveraged our capabilities with capabilities around the country with people who have done the things they should do. blue the whistle as former a.corn people on wrongdoing of a.corn. doug in the dumpsters in san diego to find 50,000 pages of documents intended to be destroyed but unfortunately left in an unlocked dumpster. we here today are here to a great extent for this panel to talk about the wrongdoing of a.corn but before that i want to talk very specifically about this president. this president would have you believe that in fact he inherited a great deal and that he does he is here today and doing the people's work to change america for the better and that he works for you. he would have you believe that but i would say one year after the stimulus of $787 billion without a single republican vote that his policies are not only failed but you can begin to see a pattern in his policies. the pattern in his policies are very clear. therefore the unions, they are for the democratic machine, they are for the liberal agenda and i am going to give you a case in point. my investigators have done what investigators do. they have searched through to see what is that the president is really committed to? where were his real campaign promises? so i would ask you to take a moment and look at this video and then see if the video does not answer exactly what is going on here in washington. you know what you have got a friend of me and i definitely welcome a.corn's input. you do not have to ask me about that. i am going to call you even if you did not ask me. when i ran project mode, voter registration drive in illinois, you know a.corn was smack dab in the middle of it. once i was elected, there was not a campaign that a.corn worked on down in springfield that i was not right there with it since i have been in the united states senate. i have been always a partner with a.corn as well. i have been fighting with a.corn alongside a.corn on issues you care about. my entire crew. i like my a.c. on my side. every major bill, this congress's sense of the president, has been loaded with kickbacks, payoffs and airmarks, designed to reward liberal special interest groups, youth labor unions and political allies of the democratic party. that is undeniable. what was also undeniable is yes, a.corn is at the center of the wall. the most important thing that you are going to hear on this panel today is not about a question of the left or the right. it is going to be about an organization, a.corn, who is an ally of the service employee international union and a number of other unions we have now uncovered that are directly working with them. they have formed a criminal enterprise. in my report last year, i asked the question, is a.corn intentionally structured as a criminal enterprise?