to say they represent both organizations. like that would not be a small conflict for a nonprofit community organization that only cares about the poor. carrying about the poor and union efforts, do they really go hand in hand? i believe on this panel today, you are going to see that it is just the opposite. that a-corn not only leveraged over $53 million of taxpayers' money, but tens of million dollars of money extorted from banks based on, you do not want us talking bad about you, so fund our outreach, fund our ability to help the underserved get alone. that money was unabashedly used in combination with the union and other democratic associations to, in fact, distort the very democracy we depend on. for all of us here today, the most important thing we care about is that our process be able to make a fair decision. in massachusetts, just a matter of weeks ago, we saw a decision that was unthinkable in the polls impossible a year ago and determined by the people of massachusetts, in spite of every effort to turn out unlimited democratic votes to exaggerate the support of a flawed candidate, scott brown got elected. the lights were on very bright and it was much harder to distort that election. it is not hard to do a few thousand votes in a congressional race. the amount of thousands of votes that you have to put together, the difference between a republican majority and a democrat majority, or vice versa, quite frankly, is usually less than a few hundred thousand votes and you do a district by district. i am telling you today that this organization, in fact, sets out to do exactly that. to shade it enough to make a difference and they do it at all levels. and in case some of you are conservative democrats, as you well might be, let me make something very clear. they do not just defeat republicans with democrats. they play in the primary when you have a conservative democrat that fits his or her district, they play to make sure they get their particular style of democrat. they distort democracy in the primary, they distort democracy in the general. now, before this panel comes up and i am going to do everything i can to get you the opportunity to hear this, i want to just set the record straight on this president, because i think it is important that somebody say that all we need to do is shine the truth and then let people decide for themselves. the american people need the facts on this administration and here they are. first, the president has the nerve to say he will limit his own campaign spending. well, he relies on acorn to illegally do his election work for him, and then lectures the supreme court justices on protecting the rights of those participating in elections. second, to my amazement, his economic team covers up what is really happening in our economy and in calling the shots they actually are trying to say that their bailouts and borrowing are part of our recovery. true, third and most dangerously, a national security team whose efforts to dismantle effective system of protecting american has won a pause, and even a nobel peace prize. and who gave us the award, those who have no vested interest in our security, not the american people who know that in fact a prisoner of war is not tried in a illinois or new york court. so why is an unlawful? go ahead, please. an unlawful combatant is a prisoner of war who has violated the laws of war. that person is less entitled to protection than a prisoner of war, and yet this administration is insisting on giving special rights beyond what a prisoner of war would have, and it is wrong. fourth, the campaign spins team has hyped the stimulus jobs that do not exist, has called record budget deficits, fiscal restraint, has pushed corrupted science to get a global warming tax, and has, most, most, most, unconstantly reached out to us saying that he wants part by partisanship in order to get a partisan advantage for a health care bill, the american people have already decided they do not want. i first voted in a federal election for richard nixon. for those who remember richard nixon, that means i am old. but if i were old enough to remember this, i would never forget it, and i want us all to take this to heart. president lincoln once warned our greatest danger if it is ever to reach us must spring up from among us. it cannot come from abroad. if destruction be our lot, lincoln said, it must be ourself, be its author, and finisher. as a nation of free men, we must live throughout all time or die by suicide. that is an amazing statement at a time when this administration's policy are both political and economic suicide. i charge you to be the truth bearers to change that in this election and the one that follows. thank you and god bless you.