it is so great to be here in the motor city. as someone who graduated from college just a few miles from here, and the son of an auto worker, it is so great to see all these people wanting to get america working again. when i arrived here and realized just a few weeks ago, how many of our chrysler and other workers are laid off because of this economy? how many people cannot afford what they want or need because of the inflation? and how this administration continues to talk about the great economy and no problem in the border is sealed, i realized that there is no better place to have a turning point in this race than right here in michigan. and as a proud arab american, someone who grew up knowing that the largest communities outside the middle east are here in the midwest, i also know that in fact the peace in the middle east that was achieved four years ago is in ruins today and can only be restored by a return to the kind of engagement we saw during the four trump years. so i am here today to tell everyone here that it is working. the american people and particularly the people of michigan see through the lies and the claims that the border is sealed, the economy is fine and the inflation is down, there is never been a better time for everyone. they see that is not the truth. all they have to do is cast a gas station to know that it is time for four more years of president trump and his leadership. now effectively on the first day of mass voting here in michigan, there is a message. tell your friends to vote now, to vote for president trump, and tell people why you are voting for president trump. because the last part of a winning campaign here in michigan that returns president trump to the white house and the leadership that we have known is in fact in your hands. the person you reach out to and you tell them that today is the day to vote for change. it is in your hands. 10,000 or 11,000 votes is all that it might take. everyone in this room and those who could not get into this room outside knows you make a difference, do it for your country, your children and our planet. god bless.