well, we promised you all that we would start at 8.30, so we are going to be prompt. i am darryl issa, and i am here as the sign might indicate, a little sneak preview. i am here to announce that in the weeks leading up to this, our exploratory committee has received more than 2,400 not just letters asking us to run but checks, averaging over $82 a piece. and in politics, when thousands of people respond to, i am looking at this, i am exploring it, you pay attention. and so today i am announcing that i will be the next congressman from the 50th congressional district. i am dedicated to do that because i believe that i have the history, the skills, the seniority and the capability to hit the ground running, not just for this district, but for california to help republicans compete in what has become a very treacherous and difficult congress and to retake the majority. i am surrounded today by some of the people that i have had the honor of speaking to over the last few weeks or in the case of supervisor jacob for many, many years. and i have asked each of them if they will give you their thoughts today on why they are here to support me. and with that, i would like to introduce the county supervisor standing in her district and my friend, diane jacob. all right. thank you, darryl, and i cannot tell you how excited i am to be here today to support darryl, isa for congress. there is, as we know, a significant amount of turbulence that is going on in washington, dc. and unfortunately, i think it is going to get worse rather than getting better. and we cannot afford to get this election wrong. darryl is battle tested. he has proven leadership that we desperately need in washington, dc. and he has seniority. that is very important. the seniority will help us get what we need in east county. and he will hit the ground running. that is one thing that makes him different from any other candidate. the election, far as i am concerned, cannot come soon enough. and i have total confidence that darryl will represent this district well. think about this. east county problems are america's problems. illegal immigration, the illegal traffic, human traffic, drugs coming across our border, homelessness, mental health issues, housing issues. he will be there to fight for us. on a personal note, whenever east county has needed help over the years, and i have been in this position for a few, whenever i have called darryl for help, he is always been there to help. and he not only has listened, but he has followed through and he is done the best that he could do to help us out here in east county. and he does not just listen. he is actually advocated on our behalf. and i truly believe that he will have our back when he wins this election. and that cannot come soon enough. so darryl, i am very proud to support you in this and i would ask all to join me in this effort. it is extremely important. thank you. thank you, diane. and now it is an honor. the man who has already been out there talking about this district and the need for representation of the mayor of el caj贸n and a man that i respect very much as a solid conservative bill wells. welcome to the city of el caj贸n. i am really glad you are here today. this is an important day. it is really an important day for me. i have spent the last year and a half of my life running for congress. and the reason i got involved in the congressional race in the first place was because i thought it was very important that the 50th congressional district continue to be led by a conservative republican. i think that at the time that i got involved, it seemed like i was doing something that was good for the district and i was not sure anybody else was going to step up and do it. this year it is a little bit different. and with darryl issa getting involved in the race, i feel confident that the right man is here to lead us into the future. and i feel safe and confident in taking back my promise to run for the 50th district. i am going to drop out of the race to support darryl issa fully. darryl issa is a matter of respect. darryl issa is an iconic conservative. darryl issa believes in the things that i think most people in the 50th district believe it. they believe in personal freedom. they believe in a limited government. they believe in personal responsibility. they believe in lower taxes. they believe in keeping the borders safe. and on top of all those things, i also have had conversations with darryl about things that are close to my heart. as the mayor of the city of elcahontas as a psychologist, i worry about things like homelessness. i worry about things like our refugee community. and congressman issa has been very interested in what i have had to say. and he has made promises to me that he will do everything he can as a congressman to work with myself and the other mayors of the district to combat homelessness and to combat the scourge of mental illness that has now become a national problem. it is because of these things and many, many more things that i confidently say, i am going to vote for darryl issa. and i hope that everybody else in the 50th district will vote for darryl issa. and i look forward to a much brighter future in washington. thank you very much. now, you never argue with people that are supporting you in such a wonderful way. but our next person, mayor sam abed, is probably going to mention that this district also includes north county, san diego, and south county riverside. so i will just say that in fact, it is been an honor over the years to work with sam and to work with people in north county and in riverside because a third of this district, a third of the area of this district was mine for most of my time in congress. and during that time, i grew to know sam abed very, very well as a leader. and bill, when you said iconic, i now give you mayor sam abed. i got it. thank you, darryl. and good morning. and thank you, bell, for hosting this great event in the great city of elcaj贸n. this is a city that is driving under the leadership of my good friend, bill wells. the 50th district is a large district representing 750,000 residents and also it includes north county as congressman issa said. it is a strong conservative district and also it has a history of electing conservative congress in the past. we have an unprecedented coalition of candidates here dropping out of the race to support the best candidate that can win the 50th district against campa najar. in 2016, it was close. we were close by 3.6 points to lose that district. our common goal is very simple. it is to keep the 50th district in the republican hands. i have known darryl for 15 years. he is a man of integrity. he loves america. he is passionate about serving our 50th district. he has the perfect conservative credential. he served honorably for 18 years fighting government corruption and also championing transparent government. he has a great list of accomplishments. and as diane said, he is a tested leader. people will focus on the 50th district. the 50th district will be his priority, the only priority. the 50th district will be his agenda, the only agenda. and he will get a critical committee assignment because of his seniority and that will best serve the 50th district. congressman issa represent our values, the 50th district values. today i am suspending my campaign for 2020 and i will proudly endorse and campaign from congressman issa. iscundiro was the ground zero in 2016 and iscundiro will be the ground zero for victory in 2020. thank you. just to let you know not everybody running in this race was an elected official. and my next friend is somebody that, be honest larry and i did not know we as other that well. but we have a lot in common and what we have in common is a love for our country years of service. and so when we first met i was not planning, i was not really thinking that larry would come on board as a supporter and drop out of his own race. but as we talked about our goals, we talked about the need for national defense and in fact to remember those when they come home, this navy seal began to be in my opinion. the ideal campaign manager, which my campaign manager in the back is going to worry about. but since i have met him and begun working with him as we explored, i have felt that larry is the kind of a person that i will be very proud to take everywhere with me because for all of us in san diego, riverside and orange county, we also know we are defined by the men and women who serve in the navy, the marines, a few army folks, a few air force folks, and a little bit of coast guard. but i give you larry willsky navy seal. thanks. well, i appreciate that those kind words. one of the things that is very important in this district is we have the highest concentration of veterans, retirees, department of defense employees, and active duty military in the state of california. we have to have a veteran support in this. it is plain and simple. and mr. isis' service is fantastic. ten years active duty, ten years in the reserves as well. another ten in the reserves. so he knows the needs of veterans, and as everybody knows what happens to veterans on a negative side bleeds over into society. we need to stop problems right there. my campaign has been wonderful. it is been something that is a great experience. and right now, sam, i am going to disagree with you. we are not dropping out of this race. what we are doing is we are joining one team, one fight. so sam's not dropping out. bill's not dropping out. i am not. what we are doing is we are unifying around leadership that has brought us together and that is the kind of leadership that will bring our country together. we need this to happen. we need to happen as one team, one fight. thank you very much, sir. do you want to? okay. i think we are, we have one more speaker, but the size of this district means that matt who is coming from temecula hit what we all hit. and i am going to open this up for questions, but i am going to make one short statement. for the 18 years that i served, one of the things that i worked on that was still unfinished business is the federal government ensuring that our interstate system, including the interstate 15 and its connecting roads, the interstate five and its connecting roads operate properly. and it is an area of contention. so it is no surprise that to get from the north part of this district in temecula down to here takes longer than it should. and that'll continue to be an effort. so with that, i would open up for questions and where is my kusi reporter? you were the first here. do you have a question? the president still wants to challenge your microbiome as your backbone? well, that is for the press and others to decide. we are not here to talk about any of the other candidates, not even at this point, camp in nishara, the democrat. we are here to talk about one team, one goal for this district. and i think that is what i am going to be campaigning on is i have a record. i am not going to be somebody that walks in and says i am going to change washington. no, i have been changing washington for 18 years. and when i return, i will continue to do exactly the kinds of things i did that made me friends and enemies, made me people who would certainly oppose me, but also made me somebody that could get things done for san diego county. and i will say one thing, and i think you are going to see this in the days to come. we were a good delegation with republicans and democrats able to get things done for san diego and to bring it home. and the chamber and others recognize that. i want to make sure that although we will fight hard in washington for conservative values, i intend to continue to work with across the aisle to get things done when we can agree. and thank you. do you use the word, adventurous, to describe the current poverty? is that like more than? no, i think that this attempt to find a reason to impeach the president is unheard of and uncalled for. historically, during my tenure, and well before, you had actual events that then led to people saying, well, should we look into it and then impeachment became a question. instead, we had the current chairman of judiciary, a committee i served on, and it would be the senior member if i went back there. judiciary, in fact, on a train before he was sworn in, he was already talking about impeaching the president. this kind of activity is wrong, and i will stand up to it when i return as i did when i was there. i told presidents accountable for what they do wrong and administrations and i have a proven track record on that with both parties. but i also know that you let a president lead and do his job, and you support that before you turn around and automatically try to undermine it, something that i have seen going on, which really bothers me. you know, duncan hunter senior was a mentor of mine and is a friend. and duncan hunter junior, i hope i have been a mentor to him at times. he is been a friend and a colleague. his current situation is regrettable, and i know that we are here today because of questions about whether or not he could win this if he were the nominee. we are not here for anything different than that, and i have said for a long time and i will say it again here, he deserves his day in court. but the 50th congressional district does deserve to have the ability to retain this as a conservative district and quite frankly to have a member who can show up and take all of his committee assignments. yes, sir. you know, i long ago figured out that telling, and i hopefully i did not tell anyone here to drop out, you know, telling people to drop out rather than letting them decide what is in the best interest of themselves and their families, i think is the right thing to do. we have all benefited by duncan hunter senior and duncan hunter junior fighting hard for a men and women in uniform, serving on the armed services committee, working hard to do things for san diego. there is a regrettable situation, and i have got to be honest, i served during the time in which duke cunningham was our congressman, and i was side by side with him. these are very unfortunate situations, unfortunate, but just as i would have said with duke and i will say it with duncan, he deserves his day in court. i expect everyone to presume he is innocent until proven guilty, but we do, we are here because we believe that we need a single candidate who can in fact assure that this conservative district stays in conservative hands. i have. i was with duncan senior not too long ago for an extended period of time, and i think there are even pictures of us standing together. i will tell you that i spoke to both duncan hunter senior and duncan hunter junior yesterday. those conversations are private, i wish them both well. they are both people that i have a long history with and that i have worked with, and we have done legislation together and we have been supportive. this campaign will not be about the other guy. this will be a referendum on am i the right person to come back and serve for a number of terms again in the united states congress? yes, please. you know, i have only browsed when it came up as content online and i read through it and i have to tell you that it is the chief law enforcement officer of the united states is the president of the united states. i do find it interesting as a republican that immediately this was somehow supposed to be bad even before we saw the content. now that i have seen the content, quite frankly, a discussion about an individual and asking for an investigation, does not that sound pretty familiar? did not we have a secret investigation and wiretap of the president when he was a candidate and was not that in some cases arranged with the government? so i think the fact that he simply said, make sure we have the facts, does not to me personally does not bother me, but i will read the thing more thoroughly, but i did browse it over knowing that might be a question this morning. yes, sir. but what is the difference between the case of foreign government to help them with this well, i do not think for a moment asking a question about whether somebody broke the law is in fact engaging in anything related to the campaign. i think people have to remember one thing and i will say it here today and i will stand by it. you have two jobs when you are a elected official. one of them is about politics and elections and you cannot divorce yourself, but you also have your basic duty, the basic duty of whether or not there is foreign corruption. and i will comment specifically on this one, we give a lot of money and i have been very active in giving money for an aid to countries all over the world. and one of the things we ask them to do is to stop corruption and one of the things they often fail to do, ukraine being no exception is to stop corruption. so whether it is $400 million to ukraine or it is half a billion dollars to nigeria, stopping the corruption there of all sorts is critical. other questions? i know you do not have to live in a different way, but i do. you know, i have a voter in the district. i have a house in the district that i have owned for 15 years and i want you to know that i have my mother's full support from that house in bonzl. and i am glad you asked that question because my mom will not be coming on camera. she has chosen not to for years. but one of the things that people forget is that a third of this district i represented for all those years. my mother and her late husband were able to vote for me until redistricting. my good friend and i, she wrote, i walked in julian's parades for all those years. and so whether it was going up to julian, going to valley center or going all the way to be honest, well beyond this address, i used to have to go to lake elsinore in paris during my 10 year. members of congress are elected to uphold and defend the constitution. they go back as a state delegation. and when we do so, we represent much more than geographic lines. and so yes, i have represented a third of the geographic lines of this current district, but i have also represented, and i think supervisor jacobs said this very well, i have represented san diego, orange and riverside county and the state of california for 18 years. and if you do not think of it that way, you get into trouble. and i will give you even one more. back to the belabor of the point, i am not a senator just a house candidate. when you go there often, you are representing the best interest of people who have had a hurricane damage in florida or floods along the mississippi. when you send somebody to congress, you send them to think about bigger than your backyard. i have got mayors behind me and a county supervisor and they do a great job of that and will bring support from washington where appropriate. and quite frankly, i have had the honor of being in those parades along this route and i have been down to visit with sequoan and i have been these areas because that is what you do. and every time there was a fire, whether it was in east county, north county or up all the way in san bernardino, the fact is we as congressmen show up. and so hopefully that is what people will be looking for is somebody that is going to be bigger than just a line which does include my mom. other questions? yes, sir. well, you know, in this district, a democrats expected to get about 40 percent. so we have got close to 50 percent last time. and so it is going to be important after we go through a robust primary for one republican to go forward who can clearly strike a difference and engage voters. and you know, a question that has not been asked, but it is been out there is, well, you represented a district. how did you do there? well, you know, the thing about my other district, which we now have a good candidate running for is in the 2016 election, i got 9 percent more vote than president trump, meaning that 9 to 10 out of every people who voted for hillary clinton saw it fit on top of that to vote for me. and one of the reasons is that i do not just represent republicans and conservatives. i represent americans. i am a conservative. and my voting record indicates that. but it also you will find that whether it is juan vargas and i going to the sinai to look at the peril for israel or going to the border and standing at the tijuana river demanding that we do more and that the mexican government do more to clean it up. so it does not pollute our beaches. the fact is i will work across the aisles. and i think that is why when people get through that first round, they are going to vote for me again over a progressive democrat who i quite frankly do not think understands that you have to represent everybody as i have. yes, madam. well, i am glad you separated those two because there is no question at all that the emphasis on improving our treatment for people that are either mentally ill or quite frankly, many of our troops that come back with ptsd which has similar effects is an important area. and that is medical. and one of the things i championed while i was in congress was getting, for example, for our veterans direct access so they would not have to wait in line sometimes dying before they got treatment at the veterans facilities. we need to do that for everyone who is in mental distress or homeless because of a need for care. i am going to tell you that there is no one answer that is a solution to homelessness. up in north county and esconditos and marcos and so on, we have solutions for change. we also have the alpha project. we have a number of groups, but we also have what you see in san diego, which is an overwhelming number of people on the street. and we are going to need to work federally with funding, but also locally with the kind of caring compassion that does not let people stay on the street in disease situations. and so, you know, i look at san diego mayor faulkner and realize that he is been fighting that. he is been fighting it fairly well to try to get people off the street. so the answer is that working with, you know, hud and other agencies of federal government, congress needs to work also with programs that work. and i think the short answer to your question is, i will continue to ensure that federal funding goes to programs that work, to cities that are willing to do their part of it, like san diego and quite frankly, like el caj贸n and other cities that are trying not to become 10 cities and cities in which people's individual rights, their home rights are being intruded on. i think are critical. that is a great question. and i will repeat it for everyone. i was honored to be nominated by the president for a confirmable position. the senate delayed me like it has delayed hundreds and hundreds of other people. i believe that had i been in that position and other positions that the president wanted me to do, i might not have been able to focus on this race. but i would like to believe that everything happens in life for a reason. and those reasons are not controlled by man, but by a higher power. and so i am here today, oddly enough, because democrats in the senate have slowed everything down to a crawl. and it became obvious that i could do more for my country. so to answer the second half of your question, after the president was here last week, i flew back with him on the plane. we talked for a short time on the plane. he asked me to come back to the white house. i spent an hour in the oval with he, the vice president, the secretary of state, and chief mulvaney. and we talked about what i could do and about this race. and i left there with a clear understanding when i have sent a follow-up letter to the president that i would not continue. and that i thank the president, but i felt that secretary pompeo absolutely deserved to have people put forward through that committee ahead of the tda position. and that was part of the consideration, is i am sitting there with the secretary of state. and he absolutely positively has a backup of not a few, but like 100 positions that need filled. so that all went into it. and the discussion with the president, i left with his knowing that i would not be pursuing the tda. and i came home to prepare for this. well, first of all, brian merriott, i have already endorsed him. he is a good candidate. but i will be candid. when the district changed, i did not fit the district. it was a, it became a very, very, if you will, moderate district. and although i was able to hold it, hold it by almost 10 out of every 100 people that voted for hillary clinton, then voted for me, i really was not the person that fits it. i have been somebody that is worked with the freedom caucus, jim jordan and mark meadows are people that were worked for me in my committee that i helped and that helped me. and my politics are conservative politics. so sometimes you have to ask, do you fit the district? and the new 49th district with salana beach in the university of california, san diego, really did not fit my politics. we tried to find somebody who would do better in it. we thought we had it. we now have another candidate. and to be honest, brian merriott's working very, very well. and i expect him to do well in that district. okay. again, i want to thank all of you for being here. it is going to be an exciting race. stay tuned. and i want you to see my kitchen cabinet one last time because these are the people that help me make the decision to run. thank you. thank you. great job. great job. i do not do it without you. i mean that. honestly.