press releases filter results year month january february march april may june july august september october november december filter gillibrand, colleagues introduce legislation to help ensure health care access for pregnant women nov 25, 2025 today, u.s. senator kirsten gillibrand (d-ny) and senator angela alsobrooks (d-md) introduced the healthy maternity and obstetric medicine (mom) act, legislation designed to expand health care access for pregnant women and ensure they receive coverage that meets their... read more gillibrand slams trump administration over skyrocketing costs this thanksgiving nov 24, 2025 with the holiday season approaching, trump administration actions are increasing thanksgiving expenses for new yorkers today, u.s. senator kirsten gillibrand is slamming the trump administration for rising food costs that are squeezing families and forcing new yorkers... read more gillibrand, house colleagues introduce legislation to protect lgbtq+ youth in foster care, outlaw discrimination against same-sex couples looking to adopt nov 21, 2025 legislation would outlaw discriminatory practices against both lgbtq+ children and adopters today, u.s. senator kirsten gillibrand (d-ny), along with reps. danny k. davis (d-il-07), angie craig (d-mn-02), judy chu (d-ca-28), and gwen moore (d-wi-04), introduced... read more gillibrand statement on president trump’s calls for violence against democratic senators and members of congress nov 20, 2025 in response to president trump’s social media posts calling for the deaths of several democratic senators and house members, u.s. senator kirsten gillibrand released the following statement: “we have reached an extremely perilous moment in our history. the president... read more senator gillibrand demands that the trump administration release funding to help new yorkers heat their homes nov 20, 2025 1.5 million new yorkers rely on the low income home energy assistance program (liheap) to heat their homes today, u.s. senator kirsten gillibrand (d-ny) held a virtual press conference to demand that the trump administration immediately release federal liheap funding,... read more gillibrand leads colleagues in demanding trump administration stop stalling toxic chemical cleanups, protect military families and nearby communities nov 19, 2025 trump administration delaying toxic pfas chemical cleanup at approximately 150 military installations, putting remediation efforts on hold for nearly a decade in some cases holdups are affecting dod facilities across new york state u.s. senator kirsten gillibrand... read more gillibrand urges passage of her bill to ban stock trading by members of congress and other senior government officials nov 19, 2025 today, in light of the house administration committee’s hearing on congressional stock trading, u.s. senator kirsten gillibrand reiterated her call to pass legislation she authored to ban stock trading by senior government officials. the no stock act, which senator... read more gillibrand, kim, pingree, goldman, and anti-hunger leaders demand increased action to fight hunger nov 19, 2025 ***a recording of the press conference is available here*** 47 million americans—including roughly 2.4 million new yorkers—experienced food insecurity in 2023 hunger free america released new national reports to fill the information gap caused by the elimination of... read more gillibrand, democratic colleagues call on leader thune to quickly bring the epstein files transparency act to floor for vote nov 18, 2025 u.s. senator kirsten gillibrand (d-ny), along with senate democratic leader chuck schumer (d-ny), senators dick durbin (d-il), gary peters (d-mi), and jeff merkley (d-or), and the rest of the senate democratic caucus, called on majority leader john thune (r-sd) to... read more gillibrand, schumer announce more than $100 million for new low- and no emission buses — plus key transit improvements across new york state nov 18, 2025 the funding was secured and distributed under the fy25-26 low or no emission grant program and the fy25 buses & bus facilities program u.s. senator kirsten gillibrand, ranking member of the senate appropriations subcommittee on transportation, housing and urban... read more « older entries