filter press close press filter press releases filter press november 24, 2025 icymi: senator alsobrooks on fox 5’s on the hill november 24, 2025 montgomery county, md – in case you missed it, senator angela alsobrooks (d-md.) joined tom fitzgerald on fox 5’s on the hill to discuss the urgent need to release the epstein files, her continued call on rfk jr. to resign or be fired, and team maryland’s commitment to being the home of […] read more november 20, 2025 senator alsobrooks, congresswoman watson coleman introduce legislation to ensure health care access for pregnant women november 20, 2025 washington, dc– today, senator angela alsobrooks (d-md.) and congresswoman bonnie watson coleman (d-n.j.-12) introduced the healthy maternal and obstetric medicine (mom) act. the healthy mom act would ensure that all women eligible for coverage through the affordable care act (aca) insurance marketplaces, as well as women eligible for other individual or group […] read more november 11, 2025 senator alsobrooks statement honoring veterans day november 11, 2025 washington, dc – today, on veterans day, senator angela alsobrooks (d-md.) released the following statement: “join me in honoring all our veterans here in maryland and across our great country today. while we owe veterans our gratitude and respect every day of the year, this tuesday in november allows us to take a […] read more november 10, 2025 alsobrooks no on cr final passage november 10, 2025 washington, dc – tonight, senator angela alsobrooks (d-md.) re-released the following statement: “i voted no tonight on the final passage of the cr proposed yesterday. “i have voted eight separate times to reopen the government. and each of those times, i voted for a cr that addresses the health care crisis republicans have […] read more november 9, 2025 alsobrooks no on cr november 9, 2025 washington, dc – today, senator angela alsobrooks (d-md.) released the following statement: “i will be voting no on the cr proposed today. “i have voted eight separate times to reopen the government. and each of those times, i voted for a cr that addresses the health care crisis republicans have unleashed on working […] read more november 7, 2025 dmv senators continue to fight for civil servants, introduce legislation to pause mortgage payments for federal workers november 7, 2025 washington, dc – as covered tonight in punchbowl news, senators angela alsobrooks (d-md.), chris van hollen (d-md.), mark warner (d-va.), and tim kaine (d-va.) introduced the federal worker mortgage forbearance act. this bill would require 90 days of mortgage forbearance for federal workers and contractors with federally-backed mortgage loans. “in this republican […] read more october 30, 2025 maryland delegation members express support for governor’s action to provide food support to marylanders october 30, 2025 washington – today, u.s. senators chris van hollen and angela alsobrooks and u.s. representatives steny hoyer, kweisi mfume, jamie raskin, glenn ivey, sarah elfreth, april mcclain delaney, and johnny olszewski (all d-md.) released the following statement on governor moore’s decision to declare a state of emergency in order to support maryland families impacted […] read more october 29, 2025 alsobrooks, van hollen, elfreth introduce legislation to pause student loans for federal workers, contractors, and military washington, dc – as reported in the baltimore sun, senators angela alsobrooks and chris van hollen (both d-md.) and congresswoman sarah elfreth (d-md.-03) released legislation, the shutdown student loans for feds act, that would require the department of education to pause student loan payments for federal workers – including federal contractors and military personnel – […] read more october 29, 2025 senator alsobrooks puts republicans on record for ignoring fbi security concerns october 29, 2025 washington, dc – today, at the senate environment and public works (epw) business meeting, senator angela alsobrooks (d-md.) stood up to republicans trying to jam through committee a partisan resolution, breaking with years of precedent, for the relocation of the federal bureau of investigation (fbi) headquarters. senator alsobrooks asked for unanimous consent […] read more october 23, 2025 alsobrooks, wyden continue to build the case against rfk jr. after releasing a 54-page report chronicling every day of rfk jr.’s costly, chaotic, and corrupt reign as secretary, senators alsobrooks and wyden continue to build their case for why rfk jr. must resign or be fired. october 23, 2025 washington, dc – despite the republican shutdown, rfk jr. continues to harm the american people. senators […] read more