[congressional record volume 166, number 52 (wednesday, march 18, 2020)] [senate] [pages s1790-s1796] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] legislative session ______ families first coronavirus response act the presiding officer. the clerk will report the bill by title. the senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows: a bill (h.r. 6201) making emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2020, and for other purposes. the presiding officer. the senator from kentucky. amendment no. 1556 mr. paul. mr. president, i call up my amendment no. 1556 and ask that be it reported by number. the presiding officer. the clerk will report the amendment by number. the legislative clerk read as follows: the senator from kentucky [mr. paul] proposes an amendment numbered 1556. the amendment is as follows (purpose: to amend the internal revenue code of 1986 to require a social security number for purposes of the child tax credit, to provide the president the authority to transfer funds as necessary, and to terminate united states military operations and reconstruction activities in afghanistan) at the appropriate place, insert the following: sec. ___. social security number requirement for child tax credit. (a) in general.--paragraph (1) of section 24(e) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended to read as follows: ``(1) social security number required.--no credit shall be allowed under this section to a taxpayer with respect to any qualifying child unless the taxpayer includes the social security number of such child on the return of tax for the taxable year. for purposes of the preceding sentence, the term `social security number' means a social security number issued to an individual by the social security administration, but only if the social security number is issued-- ``(a) to a citizen of the united states or pursuant to subclause (i) (or that portion of subclause (iii) that relates to subclause (i)) of section 205(c)(2)(b)(i) of the social security act, and ``(b) before the due date for such return.''. (b) conforming amendments.-- (1) subsection (h) of section 24 of such code is amended-- (a) by striking ``paragraph (7)'' in paragraph (4)(c) and inserting ``subsection (e)(1)'', (b) by striking paragraph (7), and (c) by striking ``(2) through (7)'' in paragraph (1) and inserting ``(2) through (6)''. (2) section 6213(g)(2)(i) of such code is amended by striking ``tin'' and inserting ``social security number''. (c) effective date.--the amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this act. sec. ___. transfer authority. (a) in general.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the president may transfer, as necessary and without limitation, amounts from any account in the treasury to any other account in the treasury being used for the purpose of combating, addressing, or ameliorating the coronavirus pandemic. (b) congressional notification.--the president shall submit to congress, on each of the following dates, a notification detailing each transfer made under subsection (a) during the time period preceding the notification: (1) july 1, 2020. (2) october 1, 2020. (3) january 1, 2021. (c) expiration.--the transfer authority in subsection (a) shall expire on december 31, 2020. sec. ___. termination of united states military operations and reconstruction activities in afghanistan. (a) termination.--military operations of the united states armed forces and reconstruction activities of the united states government in afghanistan are hereby terminated. (b) deadline for complete cessation.--not later than december 31, 2020-- (1) all united states armed forces shall be removed from afghanistan; and (2) all reconstruction activities of the united states government in afghanistan shall be wound up. [[page s1791]] (c) prohibition on use of funds.--appropriated funds may not be obligated or expended in connection with military operations and reconstruction activities described in subsection (a) after december 31, 2020. mr. paul. i ask for the yeas and nays. the presiding officer. is there a sufficient second? there appears to be a sufficient second. the yeas and nays were ordered. the presiding officer (mrs. loeffler). the senator from kentucky is recognized. mr. paul. madam president, i ask unanimous consent that the votes scheduled at 12:10 p.m. be allowed to begin now. the presiding officer. is there objection? without objection, it is so ordered. the question is on agreeing to the paul amendment. the yeas and nays were ordered. the clerk will call the roll. the senior assistant legislative clerk called the roll. mr. thune. the following senators are necessarily absent: the senator from colorado (mr. gardner) and the senator from florida (mr. scott). the presiding officer (mr. romney). are there any other senators in the chamber desiring to vote? the result was announced--yeas 3, nays 95, as follows: [rollcall vote no. 73 leg.] yeas--3 braun lee paul nays--95 alexander baldwin barrasso bennet blackburn blumenthal blunt booker boozman brown burr cantwell capito cardin carper casey cassidy collins coons cornyn cortez masto cotton cramer crapo cruz daines duckworth durbin enzi ernst feinstein fischer gillibrand graham grassley harris hassan hawley heinrich hirono hoeven hyde-smith inhofe johnson jones kaine kennedy king klobuchar lankford leahy loeffler manchin markey mcconnell mcsally menendez merkley moran murkowski murphy murray perdue peters portman reed risch roberts romney rosen rounds rubio sanders sasse schatz schumer scott (sc) shaheen shelby sinema smith stabenow sullivan tester thune tillis toomey udall van hollen warner warren whitehouse wicker wyden young not voting--2 gardner scott (fl) the presiding officer. under the previous order requiring 60 votes for the adoption of this amendment, the amendment was rejected. the amendment (no. 1556) was rejected. the presiding officer. the senator from new hampshire. coronavirus ms. hassan. mr. president, granite staters are known for our all- hands-on-deck spirit--coming together in difficult times to support our friends and neighbors. the covid-19 pandemic has forced us all to change our daily routines and adjust to new challenges; however, one thing that has not changed throughout this public health emergency is the compassion and empathy we are seeing from people all across our state. every month, i recognize a person or a group of people in new hampshire who have gone above and beyond to help their community. i recognize them as the granite stater of the month. but this month, i could not choose just one person and, instead, wish to recognize all granite staters for coming together to try to slow the spread of this virus and to help those in need. all across new hampshire, people are taking commonsense steps, both to keep themselves healthy and to avoid unknowingly passing along the virus to others, particularly those who are at high risk. this includes washing your hands thoroughly and for at least 20 seconds and wiping down frequently touched surfaces, like cell phones and door handles. it also means practicing social distancing by going out in public only when absolutely necessary and keeping at least 6 feet between you and another person. we have also seen that events people look forward to all year, like the boston marathon or st. patrick's day festivities, have been canceled or postponed. people are following public health officials' guidelines by staying at home and canceling long-awaited travel plans. taking these necessary measures is hard and unpleasant, but it has been inspiring to see how many people are willing to make these sacrifices to protect the public health. additionally, many people might contract only mild symptoms from covid-19, especially those who are younger and in good health; however, it is heartening that so many of those individuals recognize how important it is to protect others who might be at higher risk, like those over 60 or people living with chronic health conditions. as many americans know, it is also crucial that we do not overwhelm our healthcare system and prevent an influx of patients from crowding hospitals, which could lead to a shortage of critical medical equipment and personal protective gear. collective actions, like staying home and minimizing interactions with others, will be crucial in combating this public health emergency. as people's lives continue to experience disruption, i have been inspired to see such a tremendous outpouring of support from people all across new hampshire in an effort to help one another during this very difficult time. for instance, nonprofits, food pantries, and volunteers are partnering with local schools in new hampshire to combat food insecurity in their communities. one school district held a food drive over the weekend with a local nonprofit. they were concerned that given the last-minute nature of the event, there would be low participation. to their surprise, the school reported that the community came out in droves to donate goods. stories like this are abundant in communities across my state, and i am immensely proud of how people across new hampshire have come together to respond to this public health emergency. in the coming weeks and months, it will be even more important that granite staters and all americans lean on one another for support. i encourage everyone to reach out to your neighbors, especially those at higher risk, to see what you can do to help. if you have an older neighbor, see if they need help picking up their groceries. if you know someone who is a medical professional with young kids at home, ask if you can babysit. right now, it is important for people to remember what we can all do to help contain the spread of this virus and that we all have a role to play in doing so. in new hampshire, we pull together, and we help one another to get through challenging times, and i know we can come together to slow the spread of this virus. i yield the floor. the presiding officer. the senator from texas. mr. cornyn. mr. president, as healthcare professionals, first responders, and communities across our country work around the clock to fight the spread of the coronavirus, our televisions and news feeds have been filled with a lot of numbers--the number of new cases reported each day, the rising number of fatalities, unfortunately, and the volatile ups and downs of the stock market. all of this data paints a picture of the widening scope of this outbreak on a national scale, but it fails to represent the impact it is having on individuals and on small businesses in our communities. i think of people like joe kenney, who opened cobbleheads bar & grill in brownsville, tx, nearly 25 years ago. like other restaurant owners around the country, he is trying to adapt so he can keep his doors open while he follows guidelines from the centers for disease control and prevention. he canceled the restaurant's popular st. patrick's day celebration and, instead, offered corned beef and cabbage as a takeout option, but he is nervous about just how long he can hold on and how he will be able to stay afloat. joe said: ``shutting down two, three, four weeks, you can leave 25 years on the table with what we put into this place.'' joe, to his credit, is especially, worried about his more than 30 employees and what will happen to them. [[page s1792]] this is a familiar story for countless small businesses and their employees--small businesses that are losing customers through no fault of their own. erin willis owns rm 12:20 bistro in northeast dallas. when she heard mayor johnson's announcement of limiting restaurants to takeout service, she said: ``i just hope we can survive this.'' like joe, erin is mostly concerned about the well-being of her staff. hourly workers, particularly those who rely on tips, are seeing fewer and fewer opportunities to collect paychecks. erin is rotating employees so that everyone can have some work, but the fears about how long this could last are really settling in. she said: the service industry is their livelihood. if we all close, they literally have nothing. as more and more americans are staying home, small businesses and their employees are the hardest hit, but the impact does not end with them. the hard stop on large gatherings does not just mean businesses, schools, and workplaces are shutting down; it means vital community events, including things like blood drives, are being canceled. officials from the south texas blood & tissue center said this has put their community blood supply at risk of collapse, and while this is not related to treating those who have been diagnosed with the coronavirus, it is vital to the ongoing, everyday work of our healthcare system. blood donations help people who lose blood during major surgeries or after having suffered traumatic injuries. they also help those who have chronic conditions and require occasional blood transfusions. hospitals and donation centers are taking every precaution to protect donors while they are fulfilling the need of blood donations, and i encourage all texans who are healthy and at low risk of contracting the coronavirus to consider donating blood. during times like these, when it is, perhaps, easy to feel that circumstances are beyond your control, this is one small step each of us can take to support our communities. i know this is a time of serious uncertainty for both the physical and financial health of our families and our country, but i want to assure my constituents--the 29 million people i am privileged to represent in the state of texas--that the senate is working to provide them with the relief that we can. less than 2 weeks ago, the president signed a bill we passed that provided $8.3 billion in emergency funding to combat the virus, which has sent vital funding toward treating and preventing the spread of the virus, including toward the purchase of masks and personal protective equipment, as well as in supporting the development of a vaccine, possible treatments, and more diagnostics. this was an important first step toward bolstering our response in the early phases of community spread, and now we are working to address the larger impact this virus is having on american workers, families, and our economy. soon, the senate will take another bipartisan step of providing support by passing the families first coronavirus response act. this legislation will go a long way in providing immediate relief for those who are struggling to make ends meet during this challenging time. it creates a new federal emergency paid sick leave program for those who are impacted by the coronavirus. whether workers are diagnosed with the virus or are caring for dependents who are affected, they will be able to take up to 10 days of paid sick leave, and many texas workers will have access to 12 weeks of paid leave in order to care for dependents because of coronavirus-related school closures. this legislation makes important changes to unemployment insurance to ensure that texans can take advantage of these benefits during this time of uncertainty. it also provides food security for americans of all ages, from schoolchildren who rely on free lunches at school to seniors who are unable to leave their homes, for every american deserves access to basic nutrition. this bill also makes coronavirus testing free of charge for all americans, and it includes a range of measures to support the healthcare professionals who are literally on the frontlines of this fight. i proudly support the bill, and i am eager to get it to the president for his signature. we should not delay in sending it to his desk. we have been able to come together and move two bills through congress that support healthcare workers, neighbors, and communities that are being impacted by the coronavirus. i hope this trend of bipartisanship will continue in the coming weeks and months as we work to build on the actions we have already taken. i echo the comment made by the majority leader that this is only the beginning of our efforts to support our country. we will keep working this week and next and for however long it takes in order to assist american workers and families, to support our local businesses, and to secure both the immediate and long-term viability of our economy. via three task forces, the senate has already begun the work of putting together the next economic recovery legislation, and we will not leave until we get that bill passed, too. while most americans' daily lives have been upended by the spread of the coronavirus, there are countless men and women who continue to go to work and fill critical needs in our society. we owe a debt of gratitude to the dedicated healthcare professionals who are on the frontlines of this pandemic; to the scientists who are working diligently to develop a vaccine; to the first responders who are continuing to expose their own health for our safety; to the farmers and ranchers and producers who are keeping us fed; to the grocery store employees who are restocking shelves; and to the countless others who are leaving their homes and their families each morning to keep us safe and healthy. we need to say thank you to each of them. as these men and women continue doing everything they can to respond to the spread of the coronavirus, the senate will do the same. i yield the floor. i suggest the absence of a quorum. the presiding officer. the clerk will call the roll. the legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll. mrs. murray. madam president, i ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. the presiding officer (mrs. loeffler). without objection, it is so ordered. amendment no. 1559 mrs. murray. madam president, i call up amendment no. 1559, as provided for under the previous order. the presiding officer. the clerk will report. the legislative clerk read as follows: the senator from washington [mrs. murray] proposes an amendment numbered 1559. mrs. murray. madam president, i ask unanimous consent that the reading be dispensed with. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered. (the amendment is printed in today's record under ``text of amendments.'') mrs. murray. madam president, i have been in the senate during 9/11, for hurricane katrina, for the 2008 financial crisis, and i still have never experienced anything like what we are seeing today. these are truly extraordinary circumstances, and the stories i am hearing from my constituents and from people across the country are crushing. some of the most heartbreaking stories are the ones about people who want to do the right thing in this moment but are having to choose between staying home, as public health experts say we must, and paying the rent or putting food on the table. i am hearing from workers like cristal westwood from auburn, wa. she and her husband just welcomed their first child on february 7 of this year. they both have autoimmune diseases, but her husband's job is not allowing him to work from home. and she says: this is an extremely stressful situation for our family. we have the option for my husband to take leave without pay for the next month or so, but that would mean we would not have any income coming in to support our family. he could use up all of his sick and vacation time, but that would mean he does not have any left for the rest of the year in case something happens. both of those options do not seem right. i agree. that is not right. a pastor in tukwila, wa, shared similar concerns [[page s1793]] from a parent in their congregation with school-aged children who worries: what if they call off school? i do not have anyone to care for the kids. then, without a paycheck, we will get evicted. as it is, we already run close to eviction every month. since that time, all of our schools in washington state are closed. and then there is chris, who lives in seattle, works in a grocery store, and is at high risk for coronavirus. she writes: it is an awful decision: go to work and put your life at risk, or lose your job, lose your income, and lose your insurance. i have not committed either way at this point. i am trying to find a way to stay home. i am not just hearing from workers but from small business owners, as well, across our state, people who own restaurants and shops. everyone from farmers to fishers who are used to the spring being a time when the phones are ringing off the hook. now no one is coming in the door. no one is calling. they want to do the right thing for their workers, but they do not have the cashflow to keep them on. people are scared. they feel they have gotten the rug pulled out from under them, and they need our help. unfortunately, here is what the senator from wisconsin wants to do. after the house overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan agreement that includes an important step forward to provide workers the paid sick leave they need in this crisis, his amendment would undo that bipartisan work by stripping any paid sick leave progress out of the bill we are voting on today. instead of helping people keep their jobs and their paychecks by providing sick leave, senator johnson's amendment would force workers to seek compensation through their state unemployment system, meaning they would be on their own until they were compensated by the state, and the unemployment system in each state would be drastically overburdened at a time when workers are going to need it in the event they are laid off. democrats are pushing for solutions through the unemployment insurance to support families and workers in the months ahead, but simply using this program now as a replacement for paid sick leave workers is unacceptable, and it is shameful. we have to do better than that. at a time when families are facing impossible decisions, my fellow senators face a glaringly simple one. we need to be doing as much as we can as fast as we can, and his amendment would set us backward at the worst possible time. that is why i am here on the floor to offer our amendment, based on legislation i have worked on with senator gillibrand and representative delauro, introduced yesterday. our legislation would simply provide workers with 7 days of accrued paid sick leave, 2 weeks of paid emergency days, and 12 weeks of paid emergency leave, and it would make sure that their employers can be quickly and fully reimbursed by the treasury department for providing that leave. for those who may not be ready just yet to agree we need paid sick days and paid leave going forward permanently, the amended version of this bill that we are introducing today and asking for a vote on shortly would only provide this support through december 2021. my no. 1 priority right now is getting people the support they need right now for this emergency that is at hand, and this is a commonsense step. it is good for workers who need to stay home if they are sick or to take care of their family without losing a job or their paycheck, and it is good for small businesses that want to keep their workers and communities safe and that are struggling to stay afloat during this crisis. it is the right thing to do for our economy, for our public health, and we should get it done as soon as possible. if we do not do this, if we let this opportunity slip by, we are sending a message to scared people across the country that we are still not willing to acknowledge the scope of the tragedy we are seeing unfold and not listening to the stories like the ones i just shared, stories that i know my colleagues have heard as well. we must not and we cannot send that message. people need help; they need hope; and they need to see that we are willing to do the right thing and pass big solutions. so i hope all of our colleagues join us in supporting our amendment. i want to see this passed and sent to the president's desk as part of this response, and by the way, i am not going to stop fighting until that happens. i yield the floor. the presiding officer. the senator from new york is recognized mrs. gillibrand. madam president, across new york state and around the country, schools are closing and businesses are shutting their doors as we face this unprecedented crisis. this public health emergency has exposed the weakness in our economy and in our system. we are not doing nearly enough for workers, for their families, and those who need to deal with medical and financial emergencies that this virus has caused. congress has a duty to look out for families who are staring down uncertainty, fear, and financial ruin. our top priority must be strengthening our public health system and ensuring that hard-working americans, who are facing this crisis due to no fault of their own, can keep their jobs while taking care of themselves and their loved ones. we must also ensure that businesses, many of which have been forced to close their doors in the name of the public good, do not have to cover these unexpected costs alone. the paid leave act ensures that every worker in america has full paid sick and family leave. it strengthens their financial footing. it gives certainty and confidence to businesses. congress has a responsibility to pass this legislation. it is not only a health imperative but a financial one too. unfortunately, our colleague, senator johnson--his amendment is cynical and counterproductive. this amendment would eliminate paid sick and family leave provisions in favor of providing coronavirus-infected people with unemployment compensation. so what he is saying is you have to actually lose your job if you need to stay home to care for a loved one or because you are sick yourself, and that is just wrongheaded because, the truth is, we want people to keep their jobs. we want people to have their jobs be there when they get better or when their family member gets better. we want them to have their jobs after they recover themselves. this is why paid leave and sick leave is such a better solution than just straight-up unemployment insurance. workers deserve protections so they do not lose their job just because their kids' school closed, and they need to be home to look after them. would not any employee in america today prefer to keep their job and have paid sick leave rather than having to quit and take unemployment insurance? would not every member of this body and president trump himself want to keep unemployment numbers from exploding any further than they are already? while the unemployment system will continue to play a very important role for those who have lost their jobs, it cannot be the only answer. i thank senator murray for her leadership and her steadfast advocacy for family and medical leave and paid sick days. this amendment is crafted to provide extraordinary economic stimulus and support to our businesses when they need it absolutely the most, and most of all, it is giving certainty because people are afraid. they do not want to have to spread coronavirus to every person they work with. they do not want to have to leave their children unattended at home. they would love to stay at work, but under the circumstances, they cannot. allow them to keep their jobs. allow them to draw down on paid leave while their child is at home for a week, a month, or 3 months. if they themselves are sick, god forbid, make sure they are not in the community spreading this virus, make sure they can be home getting better and reemerging to do their work when they are well. democrats stand ready to work with senate republicans to pass this important bill. we need to meet the needs of the american people today. this is our duty in this grave time of need. i yield the floor. the presiding officer. the senator from wisconsin is recognized. amendment no. 1558 mr. johnson. madam president, i call up my amendment no. 1558 and ask it be reported by number. [[page s1794]] the presiding officer. without objection, the clerk will report the amendment by number. the bill clerk read as follows: the senator from wisconsin [mr. johnson] proposes an amendment numbered 1558. the amendment is as follows (purpose: to strike federally mandated sick pay and paid family leave and replace it with financial support provided through state administered unemployment insurance systems and funds) strike divisions c, e, and g. at the end of division d, add the following: sec. __. sense of congress. it is the sense of congress that-- (1) it is the intention of congress and the administration to provide immediate financial support to workers who will be idled and lose pay and benefits because of covid-19; (2) federally mandated sick pay and paid family leave will prompt some employers who cannot afford this mandate to preemptively terminate the employment of workers they no longer have work for due to circumstances surrounding covid- 19; (3) even without that negative incentive, the covid-19 will cause many americans to lose their jobs, and not be eligible for federally mandated sick pay or family and medical leave, so the only income support will be unemployment insurance; and (4) it would be more efficient to administer this federal financial support for workers using only one, rather than two or more programs. sec. __. temporary emergency federal coronavirus unemployment insurance benefit program. (a) in general.--in order to receive the credit against the federal unemployment tax act (26 u.s.c. 23), states shall provide temporary emergency federal coronavirus unemployment insurance benefits to any individual who has worked for pay at any time in the last 30 days and who for any calendar day is not able to engage in employment due to any of the following reasons: (1) the individual is subject to a federal, state, or local quarantine or isolation order related to covid-19. (2) the individual has been advised by a health care provider to self-quarantine due to concerns related to covid- 19. (3) the individual is experiencing symptoms of covid-19 and seeking medical diagnosis; (4) the individual is caring for an individual who is subject to an order as described in paragraph (1) or has been advised as described in paragraph (2); (5) the individual is caring for a son or daughter under the age of 18 years of such individual if the school or place of care of the son or daughter has been closed, or the child care provider of such son of daughter is unavailable, due to covid-19 precautions. (6) the individual is subject to a temporary lay-off under section 604.5(a)(3) of title 20, code of federal regulations, due to covid-19. (b) waiting period.--states shall not require any waiting period in order to receive benefits for those individuals described in subsection (a). (c) benefits.-- (1) in general.--states shall pay benefits to those individuals described in subsection (a) on a weekly basis for each calendar day an individual is not able to engage in employment for up to 14 weeks. (2) calculation.-- (a) amount.--the weekly benefit shall be the lesser of-- (i) two-thirds of the individual's average weekly earnings; or (ii) $1,000. (b) determinations.--the amount of an individual's average weekly earnings shall be determined by the state. (d) retroactive application.--states shall make temporary emergency federal coronavirus unemployment insurance benefits under this section retroactively available to march 1, 2020. (e) work requirements.--individuals receiving temporary emergency federal coronavirus unemployment insurance benefits under this section shall not be required to search for work. (f) federal reimbursements.--the federal government shall-- (1) reimburse states for the full cost of complying with the requirements under this section that are above and beyond the benefits currently provided under each state's current unemployment insurance law for benefits paid under this program; and (2) reimburse any employer who employs fewer than 500 employees and who voluntarily provides paid leave to an employee for the reasons described in subsection (a) an amount equal to two-thirds of the actual payment made up to $1,000 per week and not to exceed $10,000 per employee. (g) national unemployment rate.--for purposes of calculating the national unemployment rate, the bureau of labor statistics of the department of labor shall not include workers obtaining temporary emergency federal coronavirus unemployment insurance benefits. (h) regulatory authorities.-- (1) labor.--the secretary of labor (or the secretary's delegate) shall prescribe such regulations or other guidance as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section. (2) treasury.--the secretary of treasury (or the secretary's delegate) shall prescribe such regulations or other guidance as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this section. (i) sunset.--the temporary emergency federal coronavirus unemployment insurance benefit program under this section shall expire on the earlier of the date of the termination of the national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) or december 31, 2020. additional cosponsors mr. johnson. madam president, i ask unanimous consent that senator blackburn, senator cotton, senator cruz, senator loeffler, and senator perdue be added as cosponsors to my amendment no. 1558 to h.r. 6201. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered. mr. johnson. madam president, i ask unanimous consent that i be allowed and the senator from pennsylvania be allowed to finish our comments before we start the vote. the presiding officer. is there objection? without objection, it is so ordered. mr. johnson. madam president, we are facing, with the coronavirus, an unprecedented situation, certainly in my lifetime. these are extraordinary times we are living in and trying to live through, and there is no doubt that extraordinary times require extraordinary measures. the good news is that there is a lot of agreement in terms of what we need to do. we all recognize that americans and american businesses are suffering, through no fault of their own, and they need help. we all want to provide that help. hopefully, we want to provide that effectively and efficiently with as few negative, unintended consequences as possible. what i would suggest is, this is really no time, though, to follow rahm emanuel's famous dictate that you should never let a crisis go to waste. from my viewpoint, i think one of the reasons we have had a more successful economy--certainly far more successful than the economy, the slow recovery we had out of the 2009 recession--is that this administration has focused on reducing the regulatory burden. first we stopped adding to it, and then we actually reduced it. that brought a fair amount of optimism and animate spirits to our economy because businesspeople could actually concentrate on their products and their services rather than looking over their shoulders to find out what new government regulation was going to cause them to hire a new compliance officer, increase their cost, and possibly put them out of business. what i am suggesting is, when we provide that help--and we need to provide that help to both hard-working american workers as well as american businesses--that we do it in the most efficient and effective manner, and we do more good than harm. now, i would argue that a new mandate on business is going to do a great deal of economic harm. it may sound good, but it is not the right way to go. we will eventually come out of this. we will be recovering from economic woes. we need to learn the lesson from 2009, where overregulation hampered our recovery. so let us not add a new mandate. i know the house bill is only temporary, but temporary becomes permanent around this place pretty good. as ronald reagan once said, the closest thing to eternal life in our lifetime is a government program. i will also say that my office has been flooded with businesses calling in also not believing this is only going to be temporary and not really having confidence in the rube goldberg financing mechanism for this, again, temporary mandate for paid sick and family leave. the good news is, there is a better way, and that is what my amendment does. it creates a temporary emergency federal unemployment insurance program sitting on top of what already exists. rather than having two or three or more programs trying to provide that funding to workers for whom we all want to provide that support, we would have basically a single program, a single method for doing that using state unemployment offices. they are already set up to do this. with some slight modifications, they would be able to handle this, and here would be the slight modifications. [[page s1795]] first of all, our bill waives any waiting periods, but then, we also reimburse the states for paying unemployment during that waiting period. we have the exact same eligibility as the house bill. it is focused on those individuals affected by the coronavirus, the exact same definition. the benefits are identical as well. we would provide support. we would plus-up the state unemployment benefits up to two- thirds of employee's wages, not to exceed $1,000 a week. we also recognize those companies that are willing to voluntarily offer sick pay and paid family leave by reimbursing them up to that same level--two-thirds of actual wages, up to $1,000 per week, no more than $10,000 per employee. they are the exact same benefits as the house bill. and, of course, we actually make ours temporary. there will be a great deal of pressure on the part of state unemployment programs to get out of this as soon as they possibly can. but they can accept it, accept that federal help, while they need it. so our bill sunsets; the earliest would be either at the expiration of the national declared emergency or on december 31, 2020. this is a commonsense piece of legislation. it does not saddle small businesses, american businesses, with a new mandate that they do not have a great deal of confidence in. it would actually be funded 100 percent by the federal government. by the way, the house bill does not fund this 100 percent. it leaves gaps. and it would definitely be temporary in utilizing the existing programs in the states that are sitting on top of it, providing federal support for the workers who are going to actually need it as we go through this unprecedented event in our nation's history. with that, i yield the floor to the senator from pennsylvania. the presiding officer (mr. perdue). the senator from pennsylvania. mr. toomey. mr. president, i thank the senator from wisconsin for leading on this effort. i rise in strong support of this amendment. the two of us--and i suspect almost everybody in this chamber--fully support the idea, the goal, and the need to provide relief to workers who have been affected by this pandemic. that is not what is in dispute here. there is a legitimate and serious concern about the mechanism by which that is provided. the house bill imposes a very significant administrative burden on the very small businesses struggling to survive. we are all taking these phone calls from all across our states--men and women who are operating a business. they are on the edge, and they are trying to figure out: how do we stay alive? how do we keep this business alive until we can come out on the other side? they are struggling with all kinds of very, very tough decisions that they are having to make for the first time ever in completely unchartered waters. then this legislation comes along and says: now, by the way, you are going to have to figure out and navigate your way through a whole new system you have never heard of before, and you are going to have to go through all the books and the rules and regulations and consult your lawyer and figure out exactly how you comply with this complex, new mechanism so that you comply with the law and get the reimbursement that is intended. that is a huge problem for these folks who are struggling to stay alive. so what senator johnson's amendment does is this: it just shifts the substantial administrative costs and burdens off the back of the business owner and operator and allows it to be managed by the state unemployment systems that are in the business of providing compensation. we plus it up, and we waive the waiting periods so that the individual workers who are adversely affected by this covid-19 pandemic will still get the benefits that we all want them to get. it is just a better way to deliver this. so i hope my colleagues will vote in favor of it. i yield the floor. the presiding officer. the senator from new york. mrs. gillibrand. mr. president, i strongly disagree with both of my colleagues' statements because, in fact, there is no administrative burden given to the small businesses. in fact, our bill is doing exactly what the small businesses want, which is to provide direct payments to the businesses--not a tax credit that they get many months in the future but direct payments to them. i do not think unemployment insurance given to the states is going to result in immediate relief for the employees who need it. again, you are creating a false structure. requiring people to quit their jobs so they can care for a child who has been sent from school is absurd. it is far better to have a national paid leave program in this country. and unlike what my colleague said, it is not permanent; it is temporary, and there is no administrative burden. i yield the floor. vote on amendment no. 1559 the presiding officer. all time has expired. the question is on agreeing to the murray amendment. mrs. murray. i ask for the yeas and nays. the presiding officer. is there a sufficient second? there appears to be a sufficient second. the clerk will call the roll. the bill clerk called the roll. mr. thune. the following senators are necessarily absent: the senator from colorado (mr. gardner) and the senator from florida (mr. scott). the presiding officer. are there any other senators in the chamber desiring to vote? the result was announced--yeas 47, nays 51, as follows: [rollcall vote no. 74 leg.] yeas--47 baldwin bennet blumenthal booker brown cantwell cardin carper casey coons cortez masto duckworth durbin feinstein gillibrand harris hassan heinrich hirono jones kaine king klobuchar leahy manchin markey menendez merkley murphy murray peters reed rosen sanders schatz schumer shaheen sinema smith stabenow tester udall van hollen warner warren whitehouse wyden nays--51 alexander barrasso blackburn blunt boozman braun burr capito cassidy collins cornyn cotton cramer crapo cruz daines enzi ernst fischer graham grassley hawley hoeven hyde-smith inhofe johnson kennedy lankford lee loeffler mcconnell mcsally moran murkowski paul perdue portman risch roberts romney rounds rubio sasse scott (sc) shelby sullivan thune tillis toomey wicker young not voting--2 gardner scott (fl) the presiding officer (mr. cotton). under the previous order requiring 60 votes for the adoption of this amendment, the amendment was rejected. the amendment (no. 1559) was rejected. vote on amendment no. 1558 the presiding officer. the question occurs on agreeing to amendment no. 1558. ms. duckworth. i ask for the yeas and nays. the presiding officer. is there a sufficient second? there appears to be a sufficient second. the clerk will call the roll. the senior assistant legislative clerk called the roll. mr. thune. the following senators are necessarily absent: the senator from colorado (mr. gardner) and the senator from florida (mr. scott). the presiding officer (mr. boozman). are there any other senators in the chamber desiring to vote? the result was announced--yeas 50, nays 48, as follows: [rollcall vote no. 75 leg.] yeas--50 alexander barrasso blackburn blunt boozman braun burr capito cassidy cornyn cotton cramer crapo cruz daines enzi ernst fischer graham grassley hawley hoeven hyde-smith inhofe johnson kennedy lankford lee loeffler manchin [[page s1796]] mcconnell mcsally moran paul perdue portman risch roberts rounds rubio sasse scott (sc) shelby sinema sullivan thune tillis toomey wicker young nays--48 baldwin bennet blumenthal booker brown cantwell cardin carper casey collins coons cortez masto duckworth durbin feinstein gillibrand harris hassan heinrich hirono jones kaine king klobuchar leahy markey menendez merkley murkowski murphy murray peters reed romney rosen sanders schatz schumer shaheen smith stabenow tester udall van hollen warner warren whitehouse wyden not voting--2 gardner scott (fl) the presiding officer. on this vote, the yeas are 50, and the nays are 48. under the previous order requiring 60 votes for adoption of this amendment, the amendment is rejected. the amendment (no. 1558) was rejected. the presiding officer. the clerk will read the title of the bill for the third time. the bill was ordered to a third reading and was read the third time. the presiding officer. the bill having been read the third time, the question is, shall the bill pass? mr. lee. mr. president, i ask for the yeas and nays. the presiding officer. is there a sufficient second? there appears to be a sufficient second. the clerk will call the roll. the legislative clerk called the roll. mr. thune. the following senators are necessarily absent: the senator from colorado (mr. gardner) and the senator from florida (mr. scott). the presiding officer (mrs. blackburn). are there any other senators in the chamber desiring to vote? the result was announced--yeas 90, nays 8, as follows: [rollcall vote no. 76 leg.] yeas--90 alexander baldwin barrasso bennet blumenthal blunt booker boozman braun brown burr cantwell capito cardin carper casey cassidy collins coons cornyn cortez masto cotton cramer crapo cruz daines duckworth durbin enzi ernst feinstein fischer gillibrand graham grassley harris hassan hawley heinrich hirono hoeven hyde-smith jones kaine kennedy king klobuchar leahy loeffler manchin markey mcconnell mcsally menendez merkley moran murkowski murphy murray perdue peters portman reed risch roberts romney rosen rounds rubio sanders schatz schumer shaheen shelby sinema smith stabenow sullivan tester thune tillis toomey udall van hollen warner warren whitehouse wicker wyden young nays--8 blackburn inhofe johnson lankford lee paul sasse scott (sc) not voting--2 gardner scott (fl) the bill (h.r. 6201) was passed. the presiding officer. under the previous order, the motion to reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table. the majority leader. mr. mcconnell. madam president, we just passed the bill that came over from the house, and it is on its way to the president. it is a very important first step, which we are calling phase 2. we continue to work on the next bill to respond to the crisis. i want to repeat again that the senate is going to stay in session until we finish phase 3, the next bill, and send it over to the house. now, republicans hope, shortly, to have a consolidated position along with the administration. then we intend to sit down with our democratic colleagues to see what we can agree to. i would recommend that senators stay around, close. just how long it will take to get through these steps is unclear, but as everyone knows, we are moving rapidly because the situation demands it. the presiding officer. the senator from oklahoma. ____________________