[congressional record volume 162, number 45 (tuesday, march 22, 2016)] [house] [page h1499] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] u.s.-india defense strategic partnership act the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from north carolina (mr. holding) for 5 minutes. mr. holding. mr. speaker, the united states is fortunate to have allies and partners across the world that we work with every day to combat terrorism and our other security challenges. one of these relationships that i work closely on is the strategic partnership between the united states and india. together, the u.s. and india face a set of common security challenges, and there can be no question that closer defense and security cooperation between our two democracies will greatly benefit all of our people. over the last few years, mr. speaker, we have seen substantial growth in this partnership, most recently formalized last year with the 10- year renewal of the defense framework. this partnership is also highlighted by forums such as the u.s.-india defense technology and trade initiative. i firmly believe that congress should be supporting and offering more opportunities for the u.s.-india defense partnership to succeed. {time} 1015 that is why today i will be introducing the u.s.-india defense technology and partnership act. this legislation will cement the progress that has already been made and will lay the foundation for future cooperation and growth. additionally, this legislation will elevate india's status by shortening the time required for the notification of sale or export of defense articles from the united states to india. it will also bring our defense establishment closer together by encouraging more joint contingency planning and will require the u.s. government to review and assess india's ability to execute military operations of mutual interest. just as important as efforts like the legislation i am introducing today, i believe, is congress' closer examination and oversight of other actions that impact the u.s.-india partnership. one that certainly comes to mind, mr. speaker, is the delicate and, at times, seemingly confused policy with pakistan. pakistan has proven time and time again that it is an unreliable partner. while pakistan has taken some, but very limited, action to disrupt terror elements that operate within their borders, their demonstrated unwillingness to fulfill and execute counterterrorism efforts should leave no question as to their true intentions. so why, mr. speaker, last month, did the administration notice a sale of eight f-16s to pakistan? what, i ask, is the benefit of the sale to our national security and the security of the region and our partners? this is one question, mr. speaker. but the request to use taxpayer dollars to finance the sale of these f-16s to pakistan is entirely another question. what has pakistan actually done to deserve these fighter jets, let alone financing from the united states taxpayers? certainly not enough, in my view, as i firmly oppose the sale from start to finish. every year since 2011, the administration has been required to utilize a waiver to continue providing security assistance to pakistan. why, you might ask, does the administration need to continually use a waiver? well, it is because pakistan has failed to be an honest and real partner in the efforts to combat terrorism that is exported from its borders. on this front, mr. speaker, i have joined with congressman bera to seek a restriction on the availability of security assistance to pakistan next fiscal year. we are not seeking to completely prohibit the use of the presidential waiver--although, i might add, this is a debate worth having here in the house. we are simply asking that 30 percent of the funds should not be subject to a waiver. this is a commonsense step that will, hopefully, after years of trying, get the pakistani government to cooperate and meet the requirements set in law. mr. speaker, india should know that they have a strong and committed partner in the u.s. congress, and i believe that steps such as passing the appropriations fence i just outlined and passing the u.s.-india defense technology and partnership act would send a strong message and certainly enhance our strategic partnership with india. mr. speaker, we have a tremendous opportunity in front of us right now to further build an enduring defense and security partnership with india that will endure for years to come and, indeed, benefit both of our great democracies. ____________________