[congressional record volume 162, number 30 (thursday, february 25, 2016)] [house] [pages h898-h899] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] honoring allan bowles on his retirement the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from illinois (mr. dold) for 5 minutes. mr. dold. mr. speaker, on the occasion of his retirement on february 29, 2016, i rise to thank allan bowles for over 32 years of outstanding service to the united states house of representatives. allan began his career in the labor division on september 1, 1983. shortly after that, he worked as a storeroom clerk. not long after that, he made his way into the cabinet shop and began his rapid assent through the ranks from apprentice to journeyman cabinetmaker. he can be proud of the many projects that were successfully completed during his tenure. some of these projects include custom cabinets made for speaker wright and members in leadership, such as mr. hoyer, mr. army, and ms. pelosi. allan's list of accomplishments is indeed long. in over 32 years, he has produced some of the most exemplary and useful projects, many of which are still being utilized today. [[page h899]] allan's cabinetmaking expertise and craftsmanship are evident in his body of work. he has worked tirelessly alongside other house employees to make the house more secure following the events of september 11 and the anthrax incident of 2001. his reputation in the shop for lighthearted humor and quick wit made for long-lasting friendships and camaraderie in the shop. he brought a unique brand of comedy and teamwork to the cabinet shop, which serves the house from behind the scenes. he made a long-term commitment to excellence and improved services to the house community. in addition, allan's dedication to his craft and customer service skills made him an extremely valuable member of the service team. allan has dedicated his life to making the cao and the united states house of representatives a better place. after his retirement from the house, he plans to enjoy country living, fishing, and hunting. he also plans to keep busy working in his own shop in southern maryland. on behalf of the entire house community, i extend our congratulations to allan bowles for his dedication and outstanding contributions to the united states house of representatives. we wish him many wonderful years in fulfilling his retirement dreams. honoring anthony thompson on his retirement mr. dold. mr. speaker, on the occasion of his retirement on march 3, 2016, i rise to thank anthony thompson for over 34 years of outstanding service to the united states house of representatives. anthony began his career with the house, in november 1981, as an apprentice cabinetmaker in the house cabinet shop. over the next 34 years, he was promoted to various positions, to include lead cabinetmaker, or ``third man''; assistant foreman; and eventually became manager of the house cabinet shop. his accomplishments are far too lengthy to list in this tribute; however, there are two examples of his contributions that are worthy of recognition. anthony designed and constructed the first offsite house floor furniture set which may be used, heaven forbid, in the event that the house chamber is unavailable for use. he has been instrumental in the design and construction of all the succeeding sets of furniture as well. he was also involved in the design and construction of the house floor stenographer's table that sits to my right. the table was designed with new technology in mind, while still matching the original design, look, and feel of the existing dais. on a more personal note and equally worthy of recognition, anthony has dedicated his life to making the cao and the united states house of representatives a better place. he has passed along his many years of cabinetmaking experience to staff and coworkers so that they can continue the extremely high standards of quality craftsmanship that have come to be expected of the house cabinet shop. upon his retirement, he plans to use his extraordinary talents continuing to make beautiful, one-of-a-kind pieces of furniture for the private sector. on behalf of the entire house community, i extend our congratulations to anthony for his many years of dedication and outstanding contributions to the united states house of representatives. i am honored to call him a friend, and i wish him all the best in the years to follow. ____________________