[congressional record volume 169, number 214 (tuesday, january 2, 2024)] [extensions of remarks] [page e1265] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] recognizing mr. glenn e. denton, jr. ______ hon. david g. valadao of california in the house of representatives tuesday, january 2, 2024 mr. valadao. mr. speaker, i rise today to honor the life of mr. glenn e. denton, jr., who passed away on november 25, 2023. he was 73 years old. mr. denton was born in rushville, nebraska to glenn and joyce denton. he was one of nine children. from an early age, mr. denton learned the value of hard work and perseverance, having grown up working on his family's ranch. after his high school graduation in 1968, mr. denton enlisted in the united states marine corps, following in the footsteps of his grandfather, who served in the civil war, and father, who served during world war ii. in 1969, while on a mission to recover the remains of fallen marines in vietnam, mr. denton, along with seven of his comrades in the 1st marine division, made a promise to each other to share the stories of the marines who lost their lives--all while sharing kool-aid together. from that day on, the eight marines became known as the kool-aid kids. after his service, mr. denton moved to bakersfield, where he became a recruiter for the marine corps. soon after his move, mr. denton acquired a 10-acre parcel of land, which was first used by his fellow marines as a place to gather. during this time, he remained steadfast in his commitment to preserving the legacy of his fellow servicemembers who lost their lives during the war. in 1978, the kool-aid kids' mission inspired him to start camp hamilton veterans memorial on his parcel, a nonprofit dedicated to honoring service men and women from all branches of the military. mr. denton named the memorial after his brother in arms, leonard hamilton. today, camp hamilton has planted more than 339 trees to honor servicemembers who lost their lives during or as a consequence of war. with the help of the memorial's dedicated volunteers, camp hamilton has become a place where servicemembers, veterans, families, and loved ones come together to celebrate the sacrifice and bravery of the marines, airmen, soldiers, and sailors from across the central valley. after a career spanning nearly thirty years, mr. denton retired in 1995 as a master gunnery sergeant. he was a highly decorated marine, having been awarded a prestigious purple heart medal to honor his bravery and sacrifice during the vietnam war. mr. denton is survived by his siblings, children, and his loving wife, esther. mr. denton's service to our country, commitment to his family, and dedication to the bakersfield community will forever be remembered. mr. speaker, i ask all of my colleagues in the house of representatives to join me in honoring the incredible life of mr. glenn e. denton, jr.