[congressional record volume 162, number 25 (thursday, february 11, 2016)] [house] [page h716] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] in recognition of admiral robert shumaker on the 51st anniversary of his imprisonment during the vietnam war the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from illinois (mr. dold) for 5 minutes. mr. dold. mr. speaker, today, february 11, a day that for at least me, and i know many other families around our country, is a very dark day. february 11, 1965, flying off of the uss coral sea, a young lieutenant commander, robert harper shumaker, was prepared to do a bombing run over north vietnam. taking antiaircraft fire, he was shot down over north vietnam. he ejected from his f-8 crusader 35 feet above the ground, broke his back upon impact, and was immediately captured. over the next 8 years, 8 years and a day, he spent time in the hoa lo prison, a prison that we now know as the hanoi hilton, one that he was able to name the hanoi hilton. he was considered to be the great communicator because, while he was in captivity, he and a few others devised a tap code system, a tap code system with five rows and five columns that enabled american pows to communicate with one another to be able to let them know that they were thinking of each other, to be able to make sure that they were exercising the most important muscle in captivity, that is, their brains. over the course of those 8 years, lieutenant commander shumaker was considered to be one of the top greatest threats to camp security. he and 10 other pows, commonly known as the alcatraz 11, were taken out of the hoa lo prison, brought over to a prison now known as alcatraz, and put in solitary confinement. these 11 heroes included james stockdale; george coker; jeremiah denton, who was a senator from the great state of alabama; harry jenkins; george mcknight; james mulligan; howard rutledge; ron storz; nels tanner; and, mr. speaker, our colleague sam johnson of texas, who was elected to this body in 1991 and has served with distinction ever since. {time} 1030 many of the stories that we look back on came from these heroes about the efforts they made to resist their captors. they were tortured day in and day out for information. yet, day in and day out, they battled back. for me, it is very important that we never forget. fifty-one years after february 11, 1965, i am honored to be able to rise in this body to remember robert harper shumaker for his valiant efforts and heroism. he is near and dear to my heart, mr. speaker. he is my uncle. when my wife and i had our first child, we decided we would name her after him, in the hopes that she would have a little bit of the courage, a little bit of the intelligence, and the stick-to-itiveness that admiral shumaker has. the good news, mr. speaker, is that february 12, 1973, 591 pows started their return home. bob shumaker, the alcatraz 11, and many others were on that c-141 that flew out of hanoi. i am proud to say that they returned home with honor, which was absolutely critical not only for them, but for all of the pows. it is imperative that we in the united states congress never forget their sacrifice and heroism. for me, from now, until as long as i am able to serve in this body, on february 11, i will rise and recognize the heroism of our pows and say: you will never be forgotten. we will always remember the sacrifice and the heroism that you all have given to our nation. ____________________