[congressional record volume 162, number 3 (wednesday, january 6, 2016)] [house] [page h19] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] recognizing human and sex trafficking awareness month the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from illinois (mr. dold) for 5 minutes. mr. dold. mr. speaker, i rise today to recognize january as human and sex trafficking awareness month. mr. speaker, let us call sex trafficking what it is. it is modern-day slavery that exploits our society's most vulnerable. unfortunately, sex trafficking is the fastest growing business of any organized crime in the world. this is not a faraway problem. in the united states, it is an estimated $9.8 billion industry and, sadly, children aged 12 to 14 are the largest at risk for sex trafficking. this is absolutely disgusting. last year we passed important legislation aimed at stopping sex trafficking, but the fight is far from over. it is our collective obligation to do everything that we can to put a definitive end to this modern-day slavery, which is why we must come together as a country, we must come together as a congress, to do everything we can to stop this disgusting crime. mental wellness month mr. dold. mr. speaker, i rise today to recognize mental wellness month. to this point, our government's approach to mental health has consisted of ineffective and disjointed policies. too often, those in need of care end up either in jail or on the streets because adequate services are simply not available. i am proud to be a cosponsor of the helping families in mental health crisis act, which would help the nation's broken mental health system and care for those who are most in need. this bipartisan bill would improve effectiveness and efficiency in federal programs that help people, with a focus on early intervention and prevention programs in addition to suicide prevention. i want to thank my friend tim murphy for his leadership on this bill. i am glad that the administration this week recognized the importance of mental health programs in reducing gun violence, but we need a long- term legislative fix if we are really going to make progress on solving the mental health crisis in our nation. that is why, in recognition of mental wellness month, i call on my colleagues to pass this bipartisan bill and to stop playing partisan games with people's lives. waukegan high school junior reserve officer training corps mr. dold. mr. speaker, i rise today to recognize the waukegan high school junior reserve officer training corps, which is celebrating its 100th anniversary this week. waukegan's program is the oldest jrotc program in the nation. it was created before the national jrotc program was instated in late 1916. its initial purpose was to prepare high school young men for military service during world war i. this organization has come a long way over the past century, as half of the cadets of this 777-member corps are young women. the waukegan high school jrotc offers a curriculum not only of military training, but also of good leadership and citizenship skills. students receive an education of flag and military structure, self- discipline and guidance on personal, financial, college, and career planning. of the 777 cadets, 75 percent go on to postsecondary education and 10 percent serve in our military. congratulations to the waukegan high school jrotc for this program and for leading and being a strong and positive representative for our waukegan community. ____________________