[congressional record volume 170, number 5 (wednesday, january 10, 2024)] [house] [pages h25-h29] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] providing for consideration of h.r. 788, stop settlement slush funds act of 2023; providing for consideration of h.j. res. 98, providing for congressional disapproval under the rule submitted by the national labor relations board relating to ``standard for determining joint employer status''; and providing for consideration of s.j. res. 38, providing for congressional disapproval under the rule submitted by the federal highway administration relating to ``waiver of buy america requirements for electric vehicle chargers'' mrs. houchin. mr. speaker, by direction of the committee on rules, i call up house resolution 947 and ask for its immediate consideration. the clerk read the resolution, as follows: h. res. 947 resolved, that upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the house the bill (h.r. 788) to limit donations made pursuant to settlement agreements to which the united states is a party, and for other purposes. all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. in lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the committee on the judiciary now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of rules committee print 118-18 shall be considered as adopted. the bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. all points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on the judiciary or their respective designees; (2) the further amendment printed in the report of the committee on rules accompanying this resolution, if offered by the member designated in the report, which shall be in order without intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as read, shall be separately debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question; and (3) one motion to recommit. sec. 2. upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the house the joint resolution (h.j. res. 98) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, united states code, of the rule submitted by the national labor relations board relating to ``standard for determining joint employer status''. all points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. the joint resolution shall be considered as read. all points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on education and the workforce or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit. sec. 3. upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the house the joint resolution (s.j. res. 38) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, united states code, of the rule submitted by the federal highway administration relating to ``waiver of buy america requirements for electric vehicle chargers''. all points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. the joint resolution shall be considered as read. all points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on transportation and infrastructure or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to commit. the speaker pro tempore. the gentlewoman from indiana is recognized for 1 hour. mrs. houchin. mr. speaker, for the purpose of debate only, i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from massachusetts (mr. mcgovern), pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume. during consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the purpose of debate only. general leave mrs. houchin. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentlewoman from indiana? there was no objection. mrs. houchin. mr. speaker, last night, the rules committee met and produced a rule, house resolution 947, providing for the house's consideration of several pieces of legislation. the rule provides for h.r. 788, the stop settlement slush funds act, to be considered under a structured rule. it provides 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on the judiciary, or their designees, and provides for one motion to recommit. additionally, the rule also provides for h.j. res. 98, a joint resolution related to a rule submitted by the national labor relations board relating to the ``standard for determining [[page h26]] joint employer status.'' h.j. res. 98 would be considered under a closed rule, and it also provides 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on education and the workforce, or their designees, and provides for one motion to recommit. finally, the rule provides for consideration of s.j. res. 38, a joint resolution nullifying the final rule of the federal highway administration relating to ``waiver of buy america requirements for electric vehicle chargers.'' it also provides 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on transportation and infrastructure, or their designees, and provides for one motion to commit. mr. speaker, i rise in support of this rule and in support of the underlying pieces of legislation. beginning with h.r. 788, the stop settlement slush funds act, mr. speaker, we have picked up right where we left off in the first session of the 118th congress, stopping this administration from overstepping. during the trump administration, the department of justice went about ending the practice of allowing these third-party settlement agreements. because the focus of the justice department should be delivering justice and doing so under equal application of the law, the justice department should not be picking winners and losers. the doj should not be in the business of choosing parties far removed from the taxpayer and not directly related to the case at hand to be benefiting from a settlement. sadly, from the very onset of the biden presidency, this administration has been laser focused on undoing the progress of the previous administration. this administration has consistently and simultaneously overstepped their authority in rulemaking and underdelivered for the american people. that is why we are here. following the president's day-one directive to review reinstating obama-era policies, the biden administration began rescinding trump-era policies. {time} 1215 i think most americans would agree that the federal government should not be requiring settling parties to make donations to unrelated third parties. i think most americans would be shocked that these settlement payments do not go to the u.s. treasury but to liberal wish-list recipients. justice is not best served by this practice and it is why the trump administration ended the process. just as important, ending this practice ensures accountability from the government by preventing those in power from rewarding political allies, as well as protecting this body's constitutional responsibilities. we have seen this practice used to push funds to far-left organizations that use the money to support out-of-touch or woke ideologies. we should put an end to this egregious practice by the biden administration. moving on to the workforce. as a member of the committee on education and the workforce, i am glad to see consideration of h.j. res. 98, of which i am an original cosponsor. this legislation is meant to protect small businesses, particularly franchisees from the biden administration's assault. this resolution is meant to preserve the job opportunities these leaders create and to protect their freedom to run their businesses as they see fit. it also preserves choice and flexibility for prospective employees. this joint resolution will ensure a predictable and rational legal standard for what qualifies as a joint employer. for an administration that cannot seem to put far-left ideology aside long enough to get our economy on track, i suppose this rule fits in with a larger pattern of stifling economic growth and driving the cost of doing business even higher. we should be taking up policies that empower employers, not finding ways to make it more difficult to do business in america. finally, on to s.j. res. 38. similarly, and it seems there is a pattern here, mr. speaker, this joint resolution fights back against the biden administration's policies that hurt american manufacturers in favor of the communist party of china. s.j. res. 38 will ensure buy america requirements are applied and that this misguided biden rule does not strengthen china over american companies. we understand the administration wants to force electric vehicles on the american people, and that in order to make these chargers less expensive and to meet their unrealistic green goals, they want to rely on chinese manufacturers, but we cannot let those political objectives hurt our own american manufacturing while strengthening china at the same time. mr. speaker, as we all have said and highlighted before on the floor, we know the biden administration's priority is to pour billions into green energy and clean cars. by rushing to reach arbitrary green and climate agendas, the united states is more likely to solidify china's control of our energy future rather than save the planet. mr. speaker, we must be strengthening our american manufacturers. i hope my colleagues will join me in supporting s.j. res. 38 as the senate, including senate democrats, have already done. if the president really wants to veto this bill, despite his administration's flawed approach, then we should give him that opportunity. i look forward to consideration of all of these three pieces of legislation, and i urge the passage of this rule. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i thank the gentlewoman from indiana (mrs. houchin) for yielding me the customary 30 minutes, and i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, you would think that for the very first week back of the new year, house republicans would try to correct course and fix their failing majority. you would think that after presiding over one of the most unproductive, ineffective, incompetent sessions of congress in history, certainly since i have been here, that republicans would use the new year as a fresh start to reset their priorities and to actually work with democrats to get stuff done. you would think that they would bring to the floor some big, important piece of legislation to follow through on their promises, or, i do not know, a bill to stop the government shutdown that is right around the corner. you would think all of that, but you would be wrong. today, we are here for the first meeting of 2024 to consider more junk, more filler, more nonsense messaging bills that do nothing to help everyday people--bills that seek to help their billionaire friends and corporate sponsors. first is h.r. 788, the so-called stop settlement slush funds act. this bill stems from a fruitless republican-led investigation based on meritless allegations of political bias when the obama administration's justice department held big banks accountable for their predatory lending practices. after a full year in the majority, republicans still have no new ideas or real agenda to help the american public, so they want to pass off this solution in search of a problem from 10 years ago as some big, important new bill. it is not big, it is not new, and it is definitely not important. it is a waste of our time. then we have s.j. res. 38. this joint resolution is house republicans' attempt to weaken president biden's buy america requirements, allowing federal dollars to be spent on chargers made in competitor countries like the people's republic of china. while democrats and president biden work to bring jobs back from china, republicans are eager to do the bidding of billionaire corporations and ship jobs overseas to china. now let that sink in. finally, is h.j. res. 98, a resolution that blatantly attacks workers. this bill would weaken their ability to organize and collectively bargain. these three bills have one thing in common, mr. speaker: they will not become law. they are going nowhere, and they are a waste of our time. the way this place is being run is just so absurd. it is pathetic. we are facing a partial government shutdown by the end of next week. the extreme maga freedom caucus is once again eager to shut it down. [[page h27]] now maybe they think a shutdown will help crash the economy, like donald trump has said he wants. the leader of the republican party spent the week praying for the economy to collapse because he thinks it will help him win the election in november. imagine that. mr. speaker, that really illustrates the difference between democrats and republicans. we want america to succeed, no matter who is in charge, because we love this country and we put people over politics. republicans led by trump are cheering for america to fail and for everyone to suffer because they think it will help them politically. what a sick, twisted, messed up ideology. they are literally cheering for america to fail. i guess they think that maybe if they shut down the government that that will help. i heard that the current speaker was on the telephone with donald trump basically begging him to support the deal to fund the government, because let us be honest, that is who run this place: donald trump and the maga extremists who worship him. that is the guy, by the way, whose lawyers argued in court yesterday that he can legally assassinate any of us and he cannot be held accountable because the president is above the law. i mean, what the hell is wrong with these people? not a peep, not a whisper from any of my republican colleagues. not a single one of them who is willing to stand up and display some courage and say that the former president should not be above the rule of law. we may be back, mr. speaker, and it may be a new year, but it is clear it is the same old republican majority trying to distract from their own disarray and division and doing the bidding of donald trump instead of working for the american people. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mrs. houchin. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, these arguments merely are misdirection. the executive branch has the power under the constitution to enforce the laws. when wrongdoers violate federal law, any settlement with the government should be focused on three things: compensating victims, redressing harm, and punishing or deterring unlawful conduct. settlement agreements that require donations to outside parties do not accomplish those goals. required donations do not compensate victims, as the funds go to outside third parties not involved in the litigation, and they do not punish and deter unlawful conduct, particularly as settling parties can reduce their fines from $2 to $1 for each dollar donated. moving on to criticisms against h.j. res. 98 about franchisees. it is a hysterical argument that broadly misses the mark. employees of franchisees are still entitled to protection under the national labor relations act. they are still able to organize labor unions if they so choose. franchisees are subject to collective bargaining laws, worker safety laws, fair wage laws, and franchisors, just as other large companies are. one of the concerns that we have is that there will be disastrous consequences under this rule. i just find that is not the case. we are promoting small business owners and franchisees above these woke policies that harm the american employer and the american worker. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, we can talk about these filler bills all day, but the fact of the matter is they are going nowhere. we are wasting our time doing this. we should be focused on making sure that republicans do not shut the government down beginning at the end of next week. mr. speaker, if we defeat the previous question, i will offer an amendment to the rule to provide for consideration of a measure that unambiguously states that the people's house will keep its promise to the american workers and senior citizens. we will protect and preserve social security and medicare for future generations, two important programs that my republican friends are constantly attacking. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent to insert the text of my amendment in the record along with any extraneous material immediately prior to the vote on the previous question. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from massachusetts? there was no objection. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i yield 2\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman from pennsylvania (ms. wild), to discuss our proposal. ms. wild. mr. speaker, i rise today in opposition to the previous question. instead of focusing on policies that would make life better and easier for americans, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are constantly wasting time on legislation to disrupt longstanding laws, to pass bills that would offshore american manufacturers, make it more difficult for workers to receive a fair shake, and prevent the federal government from holding big corporations accountable. rather than focusing on these issues, our time would be better spent ensuring that our seniors have access to the benefits that they have earned. social security and medicare are more than just important government programs, they are commitments made by one generation to the next. since my first term in congress, i have worked tirelessly to protect these critical benefits, fighting back against extremist cuts that would gut our nation's cornerstone economic security programs. the fight goes on because the gop is still hell-bent on eliminating these programs. social security and medicare are overwhelmingly popular because they provide critically important benefits, not only to our seniors, but to other vulnerable americans, as well. my constituents and all americans have paid into these programs, and they are counting on them for a dignified retirement and essential healthcare. it is also critical that we work to ensure that the social security administration and the centers for medicare and medicaid services have the resources that they need. despite the fact that social security is by far the most popular and necessary program in our country, the social security administration does not receive the funding that it desperately needs to support many of the most vulnerable in our community and across the nation. mr. speaker, ensuring that our seniors can receive the benefits they have earned should not be a partisan debate. i hope that my republican colleagues agree and that we can find bipartisan commonsense solutions to this pressing issue. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on the previous question so that we can focus on more pressing legislation, like funding our government and reaffirming our commitment to seniors and the more vulnerable members of our society, and reaffirming our commitment to social security and medicare. mrs. houchin. mr. speaker, if i had one word to describe what i hear from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, including the administration, it would be gaslighting. my colleagues claim that we do not want to help everyday americans. my colleagues claim that we are offshoring american jobs when the very bills we are considering here today are trying to fight against doing precisely that. they claim that we are trying to hurt businessowners. we are trying to help businessowners by giving them more flexibility to engage in employee relationships as they see fit. we are trying to bring american jobs back by supporting our american manufacturers over chinese manufacturers. we are trying to compensate victims over woke ideological groups. it is more gaslighting from our colleagues on the left. i hope that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will recognize that and will join us in support of this legislation. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. {time} 1230 mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i would just respond to the gentlewoman that one of the differences between democrats and republicans is the democrats have historically been and continue to be on the side of workers and on behalf of small businesses in trying to bring as [[page h28]] many jobs back from places like china as possible, and we would be doing that no matter who is in charge in the white house because we put people above politics. i contrast that with my friends on the other side of the aisle who seem to be cheering for america to fail and who work overtime to try to demean our workers. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent to include in the record an article that appeared in the new york times titled: ``trump says he hopes any economic crash happens in 2024 so he is not blamed.'' the speaker pro tempore (mr. molinaro). is there objection to the request of the gentleman from massachusetts? there was no objection. [from the new york times, jan. 9, 2024] trump says he hopes any economic crash happens in 2024 so he is not blamed. (by maggie astor) former president donald j. trump said in an interview on monday that he believed the economy would crash--and that he hoped it would happen in the next year so the blame would fall on president biden's administration. we have an economy that is so fragile, and the only reason it is running now is it is running off the fumes of what we did,'' mr. trump told the conservative commentator lou dobbs in an interview broadcast monday evening on the mypillow founder mike lindell's platform. ``it is just running off the fumes. and when there is a crash, i hope it is going to be during this next 12 months, because i do not want to be herbert hoover.'' president hoover presided over the 1929 stock market crash that started the great depression. mr. trump is hoping to capitalize on voters' economic concerns, as a number of polls have shown that voters trust him and other republicans more than they trust mr. biden to handle the economy. in the interview, he criticized mr. biden's and congressional democrats' spending on infrastructure and renewable energy. the biden campaign has been frustrated by a disconnect between positive economic indicators--including strong g.d.p. growth, increasing jobs and higher wages--and negative public opinion. many americans are still struggling to get by, mortgage rates are high, and while inflation has fallen significantly from the peaks of 2022, those price increases still weigh heavily on voters' minds. andrew bates, a white house spokesman, condemned mr. trump's comments hoping for a downturn and said the former president's policies ``would worsen inflation with tax giveaways to rich special interests.'' ``a commander in chief's duty is to always put the american people first, never to hope that hard-working families suffer economic pain for their own political benefit,'' mr. bates said. ``republican officials should welcome the economic progress president biden is delivering, instead of revealing twisted true colors that would shrink the american middle class in the name of their own cynical self-interests.'' mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, let that sink in. the leader of the republican party, the person whom they are all falling over each other to try to support, is cheering for our economy to crash because it might help him politically. it is not about the american people, it is not about workers, and it is not about businesses. it is about him. what happened to the republican party? the obsession with trump and all of this is not only disappointing, but it is scary. again, i will go back to the way i began this debate. the legislation we are considering today is three nothing burgers. none of these bills are going to become law. they are just filler. they are an excuse for us to be able to meet when what we should be doing is making sure that the government remains open and that it does not shut down at the end of next week. quite frankly, that business should have been done last year, but republicans continue to fight amongst themselves and cannot seem to be able to get anything done. again, this is the most unproductive and useless congress, i think, in history. so, again, i would just simply say that we all need to figure out a way to pass legislation that will not adversely impact our economy and to find areas of common ground where we can actually get stuff done, but this is not what we are doing today. mr. speaker, i yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from new mexico (ms. leger fernandez), who is a distinguished member of the rules committee. ms. leger fernandez. mr. speaker, republicans are just at it again, are not they? they keep bringing up bills that protect big corporations and banks instead of helping americans and protecting working families. we saw it when republicans tried to cut funding for the consumer product safety commission and to weaken the consumer financial protection bureau. these are agencies that the american people trust and they want because these are agencies that stand with consumers. our consumers need and want someone in their corner. republicans, however, keep trying to restrain the federal agencies who are charged with defending and protecting our consumers, including today, the department of justice. h.r. 788 is another attempt to protect those same big banks and big corporations, the ones that pollute our communities and put their own profits over people's ability to stay in their homes. for example, bank of america made a lot of money by selling subprime mortgages before the 2008 financial crisis. bank of america hurt regular peoples' ability to buy and stay in a home of their own. so the department of justice went after bank of america, and they entered into a settlement agreement to hold that bank accountable. that settlement required the bank to pay damages to the americans who were directly harmed by its actions. we know that what the bank of america and all those greedy corporations did was to more than just hurt the consumers of that bank, it hurt the housing market itself. it made it harder for families to buy homes. their actions led to the great recession. so the settlement that the department of justice did made sure that bank of america had to pay nonprofits to address the larger systemic harm the bank caused. those settlement funds helped provide resources for housing, counseling, homeownership, and more. in iowa, nonprofits provided down payment assistance and demolished decaying homes. in indiana, the bar foundation provided legal aid in foreclosure cases. these are good things. why would we want to stop them? apparently, however, republicans did not like the fact that the department of justice was standing up to bad actors because h.r. 788 would block that help. h.r. 788 would handcuff the department of justice so it could not demand a bad actor pay for the harm it caused to our society. i must remind everybody that, just as we heard from our ranking member, we are dedicating a whole week to this bill and some others that would overturn actions that our americans need to protect them to move us forward in protecting our climate. we are doing all of this instead of what? we are not funding the government, are we? do any of these bills deal with any of the issues that americans want us to do? these bills show us that republicans cannot govern. instead, they are continuing to put profits over people, and we must reject this rule. mrs. houchin. mr. speaker, i am prepared to close, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. speaker, again, this has been the most incompetent, ineffective, and unproductive congress in the history of the united states of america. the fact that we are here considering these nonsense, do- nothing bills is just the latest example. this republican majority has been a failure and a total embarrassment. i could spend all day comparing our record with theirs. republicans have had pathetically few bills of substance enacted into law, and on must-pass legislation, every single time it has been democrats who have had to step up to give republicans the votes that they needed to get things across the finish line. the gentlewoman cannot rebut that because there is nothing to rebut. republicans have done nothing of importance. i do not even know why they want to be in charge, quite frankly, since they have wasted away their time in the majority. it is not just me saying that. it is them. congressman chip roy who sits on the rules committee said: ``i want [[page h29]] my republican colleagues to give me one thing, one thing, that i can go campaign on and say we did. one. anybody sitting in the complex, if you want to come down to the floor and come explain to me one material, meaningful, significant thing the republican majority has done. . . . '' more recently, congressman andy biggs said: ``we have nothing to go out there and campaign on. . . . it is embarrassing.'' congresswoman debbie lesko said: ``we cannot get anything done around here. it is very frustrating.'' what do republicans say when they go home and voters ask: what have you done? what have you done? what do you tell them? what do you say to somebody who asks: why are you more concerned about hunter biden than about our constituents? you people need to touch the grass, get a grip, and get some help. republicans have turned this place into one big snl skit, except this is not funny. we have serious business to get done around here, and they are just openly admitting that they cannot govern. they have no new ideas or problems that they want to solve. their whole platform is built around using division and anger to distract from the unmitigated disaster that is this republican majority. the only hope around this place is that it is an election year and their gross incompetence will probably lose them the house come november. mr. speaker, we have to do better, and there needs to be more urgency in this chamber about making sure that the government does not shut down next week. the one job, that no matter who is in charge has, is to make sure that the lights stay on here, that we do not stop the functioning of government, and that we do not turn our backs on the american people. yet, we are getting perilously close to that moment when there could be a shutdown. it is disgraceful that we are here debating these filler bills that are going nowhere and that we are not working on real business that will help real people in this country and help pave the way for a better future. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. members are reminded to direct their remarks to the chair. mrs. houchin. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time to close. mr. speaker, i would note that with republicans being in the majority, one major accomplishment is that we have stopped a lot of bad things potentially from happening that our colleagues on the other side of the aisle might wish to push forward. we have before us the opportunity to move legislation here that could have a positive effect on the everyday lives of all americans, whether that is pushing back on overreach of the bureaucratic state or protecting job creators. the choice before us in this rule is clear, and we must take action. we must be taking actions that improve this economy and fight inflation, but, again and again, we see this administration making it harder and not easier to do business in america. it defies logic. apparently, there is no cost too high for this administration or my democratic colleagues when it comes to this pursuit, not even the fact that china stands to benefit from one of these rules and the american manufacturer stands to lose. the american people know better. mr. speaker, i look forward to moving these bills out of the house this week. i ask my colleagues to join me in voting ``yes'' on the previous question and ``yes'' on the rule. the material previously referred to by mr. mcgovern is as follows: an amendment to h. res. 947 offered by mr. mcgovern of massachusetts at the end of the resolution, add the following: sec. 4. immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the house shall proceed to the consideration in the house of the resolution (h. res. 178) affirming the house of representatives' commitment to protect and strengthen social security and medicare. the resolution shall be considered as read. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the resolution and preamble to adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the question except one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on ways and means or their respective designees. sec. 5. clause 1(c) of rule xix shall not apply to the consideration of h. res. 178. mrs. houchin. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time, and i move the previous question on the resolution. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on ordering the previous question. the question was taken; and the speaker pro tempore announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this question will be postponed. ____________________