well, thank you, mr. newhouse, for your leadership on this and providing this time for us here to see you need to be able to talk about this issue in a very real and constructive way. and, you know, the esa passed in 1973, i think, with a pretty strong bipartisan effort signed by president nixon. very well-intentioned at the time, as were some of the other protection measures that were put in place. and as we saw the other day here with the changing of the lotus rules, the water's the united states, over time, regulations can get out of control. they can be used for politics. they can use for controlling people. and for nimbyism, for no growth and all that. and i think that is really where these have expanded into. and so our job is to provide oversight. our job is to provide course corrections. make sure the ship is on the course that was intended 40 plus years ago. and so the package of reforms that are being talked about by my colleagues and the bills that are being offered are not here to gut the endangered species act or to eliminate species. it is to bring back that course control, course correction that we are looking for. so, though it was signed 40 years ago, it is our job to constantly monitor and make sure it is working. we have talked about earlier, 3% of the species have been listed that were listed have recovered. now, 3% does not give you a very good batting average, i think, in any league. so, that would be considered a failure. it is not because of lack of effort or lack of spending, certainly in my own state of california, or species have been listed. we have issues with fish, with delta smelt, with salmon. and yet, the trillions of gallons of water that are expended, flushing the delta each year to find a lower result. only two smelt have been caught in their check traps in the last five quarters, i think. that does not show success, but it shows a lot of damage to the people that need that water for other purposes as well. so, let us find and focus on things that are going to be helpful to the species to be recovered and does not have to damage people in their livelihoods along the way. reform is necessary to refocus the efforts of the federal government to help them recover more timely. one of them long time listed in northern california, the valley elderberry longhorn beetle was listed for approximately 40 years. in yet in 2012, the fish and wildlife service was saying, okay, we think it is time to pull that from the list, let us do the work involved to remove it from the list, because they would seen some success in that time period. the beetle now has had the listing of the beetle, and an important part that we do not talk about enough is what is known as critical habitat. critical habitat is any host, plant, or other vehicle for a possible endangered species that might take residents there. so, the bush itself, the elderberry bush, any one of those basically cannot be touched, because it might be potential habitat for traveling elderberry beetle, although maybe not have ever been tracked in that particular area. yet, every single bush, it is a battle, it is a fight. now, why are we fighting over the bushes? it is because many of these grow in floodplain areas, on levees, that need to be maintained, rebuilt, upgraded. we have a lot of potential flood in northern california, indeed, there was not so much potential as several times, we have had bad floods result, and i would mention in the ube city marysville area, two very big floods in 1996 and 1997, that happened from crumbling levees. well, why do not they maintain the levees, because they cannot. it is getting the permits, getting through the process, and then being able to forward it by the time you have done that with all the requirements that are put on to maintain this habitat, to maintain these elderberry bushes in this case, makes it cost prohibitor for these local levee districts to be able to do their job. so what happens? nothing happens. and so, in 1986, giant flood, hundreds, thousands of homes in 1996, and 1997 happened again. if the lesson was not learned 11 years later, 1997 happened again in the ube city marysville area, and at this point, three lives were lost in addition to all that other damage. three lives lost needlessly, because we could not learn the lessons and get the permits done to get the levee were not done. why does that have to be? because of roadblocks, because of endless lawsuits and slow moving bureaucracies that will not issue the permits and help with the funding that needs to get done, especially for what they have wrought on the costs. so finally, after all that was litigated, the government had to pay approximately $400 million in damages for the losses of life and property in these floods. pretty disgusting, but still, every single bush is litigated as a potential for critical habitat, even though there may not ever be one of the species you are talking about, in this case, the valdi elderberry longhorn beetle that might potentially use it. so what happened with the delisting in 2012? well, they finally gave up because of litigation and about how they do the sampling of the beetle. they said, well, we cannot tell if it is the valdi elderberry longhorn beetle or the california elderberry longhorn beetle that might be making these boreholes in the plants and in the ground there. so they just give up and say, we are not going to delist it anymore. similar to the situation where my colleagues are talking about with the wolf, with the grey wolf. you can find plenty of grey wolf all over the upper midwest and those other states, yet the standard seems to be in the endangered species act, you have to find two or four mating pairs in every single county, otherwise it is still listed as endangered in california or where else. the rules have gone too far. so we need caps on the attorneys fees that make it not such an incentive for environmental groups to use this as a way to get paid, as well as a way to stop progress, stop things that people need. so i hope this package of bills at least can be a light and example of a direction where we are trying to take back to reasonableness and how the endangered species act is interpreted and used. not abused, not used as a weapon, weaponized against what we need for flood control to save people's lives, water storage. if we are going to play the climate change game, then we need to be able to have more of these tools available to us to store water, right? so this would certainly help if we had more input from our local stakeholders on this who actually know how to get a project done. finally, the mary's royal ubcd area they are talking about using local districts and local districts after a lot of roadblocks were overcome. so finally, the last bit, which is up to the army corps of engineers, is going to be completed in that area of rebuilding the levees and putting the slurry wall in that is going to make them much less likely to erosion and blowing out. in 2020, the last piece is going to be done. if army corps stays on schedule, their own schedule, their own unique schedule. this many years after those two floods. so i commend the great work it is been done up to this point, but how many needless years of risk in these flood zones have to happen because we cannot get out of our own way because of a permit or because somebody's interpretation of a critical habitat for a creature that does not even show up to these cram... ...it is critical habitat areas. i am tired of fighting the fight against people that do not seem to care how it affects the people that they govern. so this is a true effort that everybody can see to reform this act into something that actually works for people, works for the species and gets a little better batting average than 3% recovery rate, which is pathetic, especially for the trillions of gallons of water that we lose to the delta each year. the risk we have for people in flood zones, the high cost, the loss of potential, and the anguish all that brings. so i am glad we had this time to be able to share this with the public that is watching and our colleagues that are hopefully listening that we can reform the act and still have it pursue the goals, making the endangered species that we talk about. come off those lists because they are thriving once again. we have seen some successful examples, the bald eagle, so if i can see outside my window at my home and my rice field there, that is pretty tremendous. but we have got to get our batting average up, especially when you look at what it is costing society and loss potential and unfortunately sometimes and loss lives. so mr. newhouse, i appreciate the time and i appreciate it.