thank you, mr. chairman. timing again when you are not necessarily on the subject matter here today with these particular projects, but the unnecessary requirement for a nepa for simple things and my region for example federal agencies will insist on what in my view are very unnecessary nepa process in order to to effectively what would happen is delay or block minor forestry projects removal of roadside hazard waste etc following fires we are talking salvage here, and so if anybody knows any about forestry you have a limited amount of time after fire to go out and get salvage of old timber. oh, you got to do nepa on that well, do not you already have enough processes in place for timber harvest plans and such that the nepa is duplicative? simple things replacing a covert. oh, we got to do nepa well, the cost the delay in that especially when time is of the essence on a forestry project then you get down to simple usage of federal lands like forest service has a new requirement in in our neighborhood up there in northern california on something has no impact on the requirement that would mean in in quotes then riemel affects over the snow vehicle use snowmobiles we have to do nepa on that now for writing on snow when it melts does not touch the ground so you know coming back to mr. collier's issue here and i like you expound on what so you are saying to mr. costume for a little more if you wish um did you expect a smooth process with this ahead of time before you dipped your toe in the water of this and contemplating a project or did you expect rough going with all the different alphabet soup of agencies and ideas of of how to proceed? congressman, i have been doing this kind of work for almost 40 years and i spent three years in in the clinton administration working on exactly this kind of stuff i knew this was going to be a very difficult project to move through the administrative process what i did not expect is that we would not be allowed to file a permit it never crossed my mind that for the first time ever someone in america would invest seven seven hundred and fifty million dollars to get ready to go into permitting. it would be told that they could not do it so that part surprised me shocked me um, i guess i do not understand what the chicken or the egg on this thing with uh, you know applying for permit and uh not being able to start the process. it is it is it is it is it is to find a meeting there is a regulation that the corps has that says that once epa initiates the 404 process that the corps is without jurisdiction to make a final decision or an permit and therefore corps of busy place in alaska the alaska corps will not take the time to review and assess and do an eis and invest all of that money if they cannot make a final decision on it so they are waiting for epa's final decision before so so we are in a position now where um, we practically cannot file a permit we could have filed a permit before but there are a lot of issues that go into this permit decision um the first one is um, this is not just one project. this is a number of projects there is gonna be a power project. there is gonna be a port project. there is gonna be a mining project. there is gonna be a road project um, and with respect to every one of those there are a number of environmental challenges and we have to analyze them all and if during that process someone suggests an idea that we think deserves consideration. we stop the process and analyze that until we go forward the second thing that you need is investors to move forward since epa has initiated this veto. it is been very difficult for us to get investors to move forward so how do we get to a point where one stop shopping and we get this done? you have epa doing the same thing you have army corps doing another do we want lock them in a room and make them well? i get until they come up with an idea of how a human being how a customer of the government is supposed to go about doing a simple request to do business i would encourage you to find that room congressman. i would love to i would love to be in it but but i think that um, finding a way to work for people to try and get this done you got i agree with you guys but finding a way to enforce the memorandum of agreement that both the bush and clinton administrations said to congress they would follow and that was uh that was negotiated pursuant to a statutory mandate to negotiate it 404j i think is a starting place. i think a second point is to the extent that the statute is unclear that we need to have a eis done before a 404c decision is made. i think that would be helpful so there is a two places. i think this committee could have a real impact thank you. are you back this gentleman? yes