now we are gonna move on to someone who is been working long and hard. she is the chair of the out of iraq caucus, the largest caucus in the house, maxine waters. thank you. thank you. thank you so very much. i would like to first thank all of you. you are the real patriots of america. you have come here today to save your country, to change the direction of this country, and to tell george bush, hell no, we will not go. i stand firmly with you. my name is maxine waters, and i am not a friend of george w. bush. my name is maxine waters, and i am not intimidated by dick cheney. my name is maxine waters, and i help to get rid of roomsfail. my name is maxine waters, and connie rice is nothing but another neocon, and she does not represent me. george w. bush, let us enter this immoral war. he tricked the american people, and he told us there were weapons of mass destruction. he did not tell the truth. he came out on the battleship and said mission accomplished. he misled us again. he said we were working with the coalition of the willing. it was only a figment of his imagination. he said that we were moving forward with training the iraqi soldiers who would take over the security. where are they? they are nowhere as a matter of fact. they are undermining our soldiers in the civil war. he said we were going to get proceeds from the oil that would be pumped back into iraq so that it could be reconstructed. as a matter of fact, he told us he made these decisions. he said he is the decider, but you know what? he is not the decider. he is the liar. thank you for being here today. i want you to come to capitol hill and lobby on monday and put some starch in the backs of the members of congress and give them the courage that they need to do the right thing. it is all right to have some resolutions that are not binding. but the proof of the pudding is in the eating and that will come when it is time to decide whether or not we are going to fund this immoral war. i will not vote one dime for this war. and when you come up here to lobby, you ask these members, are you going to support an appropriation to continue this war, to expand this war, and you can tell the difference between those who are ready to bring our soldiers home and those who are only paying lip service? do not forget he is not the decider. he is the decider. he is the bring our troop zone. thank you, maxine.