let me first thank our councilman mike bonan and jonathan burke and ted louis and everybody else who worked so hard sheila to get us together on short notice but guess what? when americans need to stand up against racism and anti-immigration we have to come together on short notice where ever we need to be. and we have to say the necessary things for today we are not afraid of you. if you are dishonorable you are despicable. if you are despicable you will not be donated by us. we are bad news, i cannot make children from their parents. how dare you pull children out of their arms to their mothers? how dare you lie and say you could not do anything about it? you are the one to cause it and you are the one that we are going to make to turn it back because what you are doing now is lying, lying, lying. the american people are put up with this president long enough. they are more than we need to see. what more lives do we need to hear? it is time for us to say even though there are those who do not want us to say it. mr. president you need to be impeached. yes, god more than it seems to be a thing. but putting this on top of all that he has done is a line with russia and putin. his love or the dictators of the world. how he has not said one word about the fact that they have been to our dnc. i am the line that democratic process. he has not said one thing about it but he can wrap his arms around another dictator. come down on and tell us we are out of swallowed. we are through a journey of surprise again. we are not going to swallow it. you have disrespected all of us. you have violated all of us. and now you have sacrificed our children for your aims and your goals. that is because you want to build the wall. mr. president there will be no wall built on the back of the picture. you are not a necessity. you have got to make mexico pay for it. we are not going to pay for it. you are going to find these children. you are going to reconnect them with their families. and we are going to give you out of office. thank you so much for coming out here. because history is not going to be kind to this administration. we are not going to recall that we stood up. we are going to stand up. we are not going to consider ourselves victims of this mess again. history will be called the while we try to step on all of us. we kicked him in his will and he stepped on him. and so the president who lies all the time, who will change on the drop of a dime. the president is watching what is going on. and the only reason he came up with this fake initiative of years is to try and say to the people that he is seen come out in huge numbers. i am sorry, i am scared. i am going to back it up but he did not back it up enough. because that initiative that he is put out that is not defined, how they are going to connect these children with their parents. and now where are children? they do not have numbers or identification where they can connect parents. and some parents have been deported and their children are still here somewhere. and between this president and the racist attorney general jeff sessions and john caldwell said that they are going to do this. they said publicly that they are going to separate these children from their parents in an issue that they are trying to use to get that role good. so they can intimidate all of us. but again, the message has to be mr. president, we are not afraid of you. we are not afraid of justice. we are not afraid of john caldwell. we are not afraid of your administration. and while you think you have got away with everything that you have done, we are going to show you that you have not gotten away with anything. we want the children back. we want the children back. we want it done now. we want it insisted. if you think we are wrong, you are not here and say nothing yet. alrighty, you have numbers of your cabinet that have been built out of restaurants. yes. who else is thinking about that house? who is saying no face, no sleep, no blanket, no sleep. and that is what we are going to win this battle. because while you try and force the bible, jeff sessions and others, you really do not know the bible. god is on our side. on the side of the children. on the side of what you write. on the side of what is honorable. on the side of understanding that if we cannot protect the children, we cannot protect anybody. and say let us say the god. let us make sure we show up. we are everywhere we have to show up. and if you see anybody from that cabinet in a restaurant, in a department store, and a gasoline station, you get up and you create a crowd. and you put up a lot of money. and you put up a deal and welcome. anymore, anywhere, we have got to drop the children connected to their parents. the children are suffering. we do not know if the shots that they are going through can ever be overcome. we do not know what damage has been done to these children. all that we know is they are in cages. they are in prisons. they are in jails. and if you know what they call it, that is where they are. and mr. president, we will see you every day. every hour of the day, everywhere that we are. to let you know you cannot get away with this. thank you so very much. thank you.