yesterday we thought we were on the brink of a showdown between two different groups outside of congresswoman maxine waters office. now what we expected were that the right wing of keepers organization was going to be there attempting to intimidate the congresswoman, bringing guns and all of that. and it was likely that counter protesters would come out to protest against them. and we know how that has gone in a number of different instances in the us. a little bit worrisome. did not actually happen though. but the protests, which was announced earlier this week was, this is their language by the way, the off keepers. it was against maxine waters' incitement of terrorism. and a stand for ice and the border patrol as they enforce the perfectly constitutional immigration and naturalization laws of this nation, which trump has ignored in the number of cases. that is what they put on their website by the way. that is the splc. authorities had been in contact with the group apparently though, and it was decided that they would not come in order to ensure peace. that said, just in case it still happened, counter protesters did still show up. they gathered by the dozens and remained long after the off keepers had apparently bailed on their original promise to appear at the office. now at one point, someone did take a flag off the pickup truck, doused it in oil, and set it on fire. chanting america was never great. so that part of it is unfortunate, of course. but at least the potential fight between these two groups did not happen. and maxine waters herself had been worried that that was a possible outcome. she had warned people not to counter protest, actually. she said that off keepers would like nothing more than to inflame racial tensions and create an explosive conflict in our community. can i say three things real quick? first of all, hashtag abolish ice. second thing is hashtag abolish ice. and the third thing i would like to say is hashtag abolish ice. at least that does not lack clarity. okay, so i have a number of different opinions on this. so first of all, off keepers are disastrous. they carry weapons around with them and come in camouflage. and so when they start saying maxine waters is enabling terrorism and i am going to come with my weapon, that is a recipe for disaster. so thank god they did not show up. and i agree with maxine waters that i would not want counter protestors there. so now as it turns out, oath keepers did not show up anyway. but thank god for that because if they had with clearly some of the counter protestors had, you know, were in a frenzied state, okay, in my opinion. if they had met the oath keepers in a frenzied state and one side has gasoline with them and the other side has weapons with them. it is only a matter of time before something like this explodes. so do not do it, do not do it. and if some lunatic right wingers are going whether they have got guns or do not take them. look, outside of charlottesville and yes, charlottesville was shocking that there was a, appeared to be a couple hundred of them there. but almost every other right wing protest is 17 people. just let them be goofballs by themselves. march around like jackasses and go home, okay. so now the third thing is really important. this, i do not know who did this. we in fact called some of the unions that were present. they are like, we did not participate in that part, right? and because i am trying to figure out who the hell did it because ripping the american flag first of all from somebody's truck private property terrible and could lead to violence if that person then wants their property back and it is wrong and it is illegal, etc. saying after government america was never great. okay, i do not agree with that and i know that at this point there is a lot of rage on the left as well because of all the suppression, oppression, etc. for this long. and you want to have legitimate conversations about the things that america's done wrong throughout history. are you kidding me? that laundry list is enormous. on the other hand, america's also done wonderful things throughout history. and i would hope to smart people have a conversation about both of those things, right? but the part that really i object to is burning the flag and then this quote, one of them said, this is not the american flag, this is their flag. no, exact opposite. no, the american flag is our flag, it is our flag, it stands for all the things that we believe in, equality for all. the things that are in the constitution, freedom of press, freedom of speech, human rights, civil rights, it stands for all those things. now, can we always live up to that? no, but that is why we fight so that we can live up to those principles. so those are our principles. the right wing does not own those principles, the right wing hates those principles. look what they are doing now. they have an authoritarian leader going around the world kissing up to other authoritarian leaders. they never believed in our democracy. they never believed in freedom of the press or speech. they never believed in any other constitution. that is our constitution, our flag. you should fight for it instead of against it. and it is so important that we maintain non-violent civil disobedience. yes, there is just overwhelming evidence over the history of our country and movements for justice throughout the world that civil disobedience and resistance works specifically when it is non-violent and passive because in those ways we maintain the more high ground. yeah, and you are not going to out-violent the right wing, okay? and right now they have the government in their control. you are not going to out-violent state violence. it is a terrible idea, both on morality and on effectiveness. i am not dubious about the story. i am curious. there are going to be some more details about the story. the details are incredibly sketchy right now. with the supreme court is thankfully upheld it. you have the right to burn an american flag. you should unquestionably have that right to burn an american flag. but everyone who burns an american flag in america looks like an idiot. and we talked earlier in this hour about propaganda and already this story will be utilized by the right repeated again and again and again and those images will show up. and no question in the march in the resistance to fight trump. burning the american flag today, if that story holds up and is true as reported did significant damage. it was a terrible, terrible, incredibly stupid selfish thing to do. two easy ways to follow the young turks want us hit the subscribe button down below. then you are a tyt subscriber and second is ring the bell. and when you do that on youtube you are notified of our videos.