time! i will hear everybody's faces. and they will hear their face by looking at the spirit of the shreider maschinenk, the operating system. mark the chapters on the floor. mark the fully 질문, god bless the great state of ohio. somebody told me their conservatives in ohio. and i am thrilled to be here with so many patriots. i am thrilled to be here with so many leaders who were fighting for freedom. who were fighting for the constitution. who were fighting for the values that have built our great nation. you know, you can tell a lot about a word by studying its history, its origins. if you look at the word politics, it has two roots. poly meaning many and ticks meaning blood sucking parasites. and that is a fairly accurate description of washington dc. but you know, we are here tonight for something a lot more important than politics. we are here tonight because our country is in crisis. we are here tonight because we are bankrupting our kids and grandkids. because our constitutional rights are under assault. and because america has receded from leadership in the world. and yet i am here tonight with a word of hope and encouragement. people are waking up all over this country. there is a spirit of awakening. this next election is going to focus on three key issues. jobs, freedom, and security. let us talk about each of them. let us start with jobs. i want to talk for a minute to all the single moms who are here. who are working two or three part time jobs who have had your hours forcibly reduced to 28, 29 hours a week because obamacare kicks in at 30 hours a week. i want to talk to all the truck drivers and mechanics and electricians, all the steel workers and union members, all the men and women with calluses on your hands. who have seen your wages stagnate year after year after year, cost to live and keeps going up. but somehow your paychecks do not seem to keep pace. i want to talk to all the young people coming out of school. you cut student loans up to your eyeballs. you are scared. can i find a job? what is the future hold while i be able to provide for my family? and you know, the media tries to tell us, this is as good as it gets. let me tell you, that is an utter lie. you know, it is easy to talk about making america great again. you can even print that on a baseball cap. but the real question is, do you understand the principles and values that made america great in the first place? the heart of our economy is not washington dc. and it is not new york city. the heart of our economy is small businesses all across the united states of america. if you want to kill the economy, do what we have done the last seven years, hammer the living daylights at a small business. on the other hand, if you want to see the economy take off, then pull the boot of the federal government off the back of the next of small businesses. if i am elected president, if and when, we will repeal every word of obamacare. we will pass common sense healthcare reform that makes health insurance personal and portable and affordable and keeps government from getting in between us and our doctors. and we will pass a simple flat tax. where every american can fill out our taxes on a postcard. and when we do that, we should abolish the irs. we are going to rain in the epa and the cfpb and the alphabet soup of federal agencies that have descended like locusts on small businesses killing jobs all across this country. and we are going to stop amnesty and secure the borders and end sanctuary cities and end welfare benefits for those here illegally. and the effect of all of that, we are going to see millions upon millions of new high paying jobs. we are going to see wages rising for everybody. we are going to see young people coming out of school with two, three, four, five job offers. we will see mourning in america again. the second critical issue in this election is freedom. you know, just a few weeks ago with the passing of justice scalia, it underscored just how high the stakes are in this election. we are going to. it is not one but two branches of government that hangs in the balance. we are one left wing justice away from a radical five justice liberal majority, the likes of which this country is never seen. we are one liberal justice away from the supreme court acting to strip away the religious liberty of every american. we are one liberal justice away from the supreme court effectively erasing the second amendment from the bill of rights. and we are one liberal justice away from the supreme court making a subject to the authority of the world court and the united nations and international law and giving up u.s. sovereignty. now, you know, a couple of debates ago. hugh hewitt asked us all some questions about religious liberty in the supreme court. and donald trump turned to me and donald said, ted, i have known a lot more politicians than you have. well, in that he is right. he is been supporting left wing liberal democratic politicians for 40 years. i have no experience doing that. but donald continued. he said, ted, when it comes to the supreme court and religious liberty, you got to learn to compromise. you got to learn to work with the democrats to cut a deal to go along to get along. now, let me be very, very clear to the men and women of ohio. when it comes to your religious liberty, i will not compromise away your religious liberty. and i will not compromise away your second amendment right to keep in bear arms. donald trump tells us that he will work out a deal and compromise with harry reid and chuck schumer to agree upon antonin scalia's replacement. well, i give you my solemn word that every justice i put on the court will be a principled constitutionalist faithful to the law who will ferociously protect the bill of rights. the third critical issue in this election is security. for seven years, we have seen a president who abandons our friends and allies and who shows weakness and appeasement to our enemies. you know, again, two debates ago, donald trump explained, if he were president, he would be neutral between israel and the palestinians. well, let me be very, very clear as president, i will not be neutral. america will stand unapologetically with the nation of israel. and you know, anyone who cannot tell the difference between our friends and allies, anyone who cannot tell the difference between the nation of israel and islamic terrorists who want to murder us, that raises real questions about their fitness and judgment to be commander in chief. you know, for seven years, we have seen this administration weakening the military, undermining our readiness. we have seen morale plummeting among the troops. and you know what, as a nation, we have seen this before. we have seen another left-wing democratic president, jimmy carter, undermining weak in the military. and in january 1981, ronald reagan came into office. and what did reagan do? he cut taxes, he lifted regulations, small businesses exploded. we saw millions of high-paying jobs that generated trillions in new government revenue. he used that money to rebuild the military. and we bankrupted the soviet union and won the cold war. i intend to do the exact same thing with radical islamic terrorism. we are going to repeal obamacare and pass a flat tax and lift the regulations. and we will see millions of new jobs, wages going up. it will generate trillions in new government revenue. and we will use that money to rebuild this military so it remains the mightiest fighting force on the face of the planet. now, no longer will our military be governed by political correctness. we will have a commander in chief who stands up and says to the world, we will defeat radical islamic terrorism. we will have a president willing to utter the words, radical islamic terrorism. and you know one of the most shameful aspects of the last seven years has been a president sending our fighting men and women into combat with rules of engagement so strict that their arms are tied behind their back that they cannot fight, they cannot win, they cannot defend themselves. that is wrong. it is immoral. and in january 2017, it will end. you know, america has always been reluctant to use military force. we are slow to anger. but if and when military forces need it, we should use overwhelming force, kill the enemy and then get the heck out. we are 48 hours away from election day. and you know, it is interesting if you look back over the past year, we started a year ago with 17 republican candidates, a fantastic young, talented, diverse, dynamic field of candidates. and in the course of the year, i am just leaving that one alone. in the course of the year, the field is narrowed, the field is narrowed, and the field is narrowed. i want to take a minute now to speak to the 65 to 70 percent of republicans here in ohio and across the country who understand that donald trump is not the best nominee to go head to head with hillary clinton. if donald is our nominee, hillary clinton wins. why do you think the media so desperately wants donald to be the nominee? they give him hundreds of millions of dollars of free advertising. it is a 24 hour infomercial. i keep expecting a telephon and jerry lewis to come out soon and say, the corporate bosses have said trump's got to be the guy because he is the only person on earth hillary clinton can beat. now, if you are one of those 65 to 70 percent of republicans who recognizes that trump is a disaster, that hillary wins, then i would say the only way to beat donald is what has been happening. and i want to take a minute to speak to folks either here at home watching on tv who may have been supporting somebody else in this campaign. maybe you started out supporting jeb bush or chris christie. maybe you were supporting rand paul or mike huckabee. maybe you were supporting carly fiorina or ben carson. maybe now you are thinking of supporting john kasich or marco rubio. let me say this. all of them are good honorable decent people. i like and respect all of them. but none of them has any viable path whatsoever to beating donald trump and becoming the republican nominee. you know, yesterday we had an election day. two places voted, the district of columbia voted, and i came in dead last. the washington lobbyists looked at this field and said goodness gracious, give us anybody but cruz. and also yesterday was the state of wyoming. we won wyoming with 66 percent of the vote. this fellow donald trump. i have seen his name on tv. he got 7.2 percent. if you had been supporting someone else, i would say to you, we welcome you to our team. come on in the waters fine. we welcome you with open arms. because what is abundantly clear now is there is only one campaign that has beaten donald trump over and over again and that can and will beat donald trump. and that is our campaign. at this point, thanks to millions of republicans coming together and standing united. we have beaten donald trump not once, not twice, not three times, but now nine different times all over the country. by the way, have you all noticed that donald kind of twitches when he hears that? like at the last debate, oh, okay, maybe ted is one three or four. this math thing does not seem to be a strong feature of yours. come on, donald, say it nine. nine. ask a german, are you going to be the nominee? nine. and you know, today there was some new polling here in the state of ohio. you know, the media has been trying to say, cruise, you need to not come to ohio. we have decided in the media that we are either given it to donald trump or john kasich and we in the media do not really care which ones which. well, it is very interesting nbc's polling today has us within six points of first place in the state of ohio. you know, that same nbc poll, not exactly a right wing polling outfit, that same nbc poll has us beating hillary clinton in ohio in the general election. this election is all about turnout. it is all about who shows up at the polls on tuesday. so i want to ask every person here to come out on tuesday and vote for me ten times. and now look, we are not democrats. i am not suggesting voter fraud. but if every person here gets nine other people to come out and vote on tuesday, you will have voted ten times. and you know, maybe you are not yet old enough to vote. if you get ten other people to come out and vote on tuesday, you will have voted ten times before you turn 18. that is how we win. look around at this gathering here. if everyone here gets nine other people to vote on tuesday, the men and women gathered here tonight represent over 15,000 votes in the state of ohio. that is enough to control the outcome in the state of ohio. and if we stand together, we will win the nomination and beat donald trump. and we will win the general election and beat hillary clinton. and we will turn this country around. you know, it took jimmy carter to give us ronald reagan. and i am convinced the most long-lasting legacy of barack obama is going to be a new generation of leaders in the republican party who stand and fight for freedom, who stand and fight for the constitution, and who stand and fight for the judeo-christian values that built this great nation. thank you and god bless you.