all right, let us do this. good evening everybody. welcome to our watch with tim thompson, special saturday night edition. we are glad you guys are all here, those that are here with us tonight and those that are watching online. welcome. we have a great interview tonight, assemblyman kevin kylie and goobin or toriel candidate and the recall election is joining us tonight. so thank you for coming on out for that. and before we go too much further, would you join me as we pray for tonight's program? heavenly father, we are so grateful that we can come together here and have the freedom to do that here in your house tonight. and we just lift up the program and the interview between pastor tim and assemblyman kylie tonight that it would be one that really equips and educates people with the information that they need to know to be able to make wise decisions. and we pray that this program tonight would reach far and wide through the online audience. and we just ask for your lesson and protection over all of it. and we ask it in jesus name. amen. okay, so for those of you that are here tonight, we are taking an offering for our watch. if you are willing and able to help support our watch and what we do, we thank you for that. we thank you for being here anyways. and if you are watching online, you can go to our watch now.com forward slash donate. if you would like to help contribute to the cause there as well. just a couple other announcements. i want to let you know if you did not know already and we are talking about the recall election. ring your ballots here. if you want to make sure that they go where they need to go and you can trust where they are going to be going. we are receiving ballots here. we are doing that legally. and so if you have them tonight, you can drop them off with the person who is over the ballot box out in the fellowship area. and if you are coming to church here tomorrow, you can bring them to church with you or next wednesday night as well. so i will let you know this is a place where you can get your ballots turned in safely. also for those of you that are here tonight in the building, go talk to our school choice representative in the fellowship area as well. and school choice is an excellent program. there has been a pre petition going. they are not doing that tonight. but what they are doing is looking for help from volunteers. so if you want to be part of the school choice mission and you want to help volunteer to get the word out, maybe show up to some events and help spread the word. that would be great. so just go out and talk to the person there about that for school choice. also some upcoming things we have got going on. let us see next wednesday september 8th. charlie kirk. yes. we are blessed to finally be able to have charlie come into the program. and he is going to be joined by pastor rob mccoy as well. so that is what next wednesday september 8th. make sure you get here early to be able to get a seat. also want to let you know we went through a real rough round of closures in this last year of things being shut down and locked down. and not knowing what the future holds exactly. we are developing a movement right now called never closing. you probably heard us talk about this a little bit before. and what this is all about is we want to be able to make our resource for churches and businesses that are committed to the community. and are rejecting the concept of closing down their church or their business if this were to happen again in the event of another lockdown. so what you can do now is go to neverclosing.org. and if you have a business and you want to add your business there because you are going to commit to staying open. and the future no matter what, then you can add your business on there. it is free. if you are watching online and you are part of a church, you can ask your church leadership to go on there and add the church there as well. and this is going to be a great resource for people to find out in the event if any kind of lockdown in the future. what churches and local businesses are open. so never closing.org. if you have not already joined the email list, the our watch email list, you could do that at ourwatchnow.com. just add your information there and you will make sure that you will be getting the most current and up to date information about events and future guests coming on the program. you can also find out all those details if you are following us on facebook and instagram and twitter. and if you are watching right now online, you are either watching on youtube or rumble. so would you please share this out right now, send out a link to all your social media friends, let them know to join in and watch. make sure that you are liking and subscribing to the channel as well. and that way you get the notifications about what is coming up and what we are doing here. so also want to let you know for those that are local to this area, if you are part of the church. and actually, even if you are not, we are going to be live streaming this. i just realized that we are going to be live streaming monday morning is russia. and so here at the church, pastor tim is going to be leading a bible study. this is just going to be a one time special bible study at 9 a.m. here at 412, muryeta. so you can watch that on the 412, muryeta youtube and rumble channel monday morning at 9 of the clock or come on down and show up and take part in that with us. so that is about all i got for you guys now, we are getting started with the program in just a few moments. so sit back, relax and enjoy our watch with tim thompson. so here's the radical left with their globalist mindset has burned down our cities, forced businesses to close and tried to silence our churches. they told us to wear a mask and stay home to save lives in many christians who remain silent. that is no longer an option. the silent majority will be silent no more and the sleeping giant has been awakened. we are going to use our voice to take back the media, stop the censorship and very loudly take back the public square. i am tim thompson and this is our watch. well, good evening everybody. i am so grateful to have you all out here, especially on a holiday weekend like this. we got labor day coming up this monday. there is a lot going on out in the world, but you all took time to come into church and hear what kevin kylie has to say tonight and just grateful for you for doing that. i also want to say hello to everybody that is tuned in online. glad you are with us as well. i just want to remind all of you that are here and everybody that is watching online, why we are doing this. why would a pastor talk about these political issues? i believe this. i believe what ezekiel chapter 3 says. in fact, i believe what all of the bible says, front to back. but i believe ezekiel 3 where god calls ezekiel a watchman and he tells him when i warn you about something, it is your job to let everybody know. and if they decide to listen to you and they hear the warnings and they repent and they get their life back on track, then great, you have saved them awesome. but if you do not warn them and they end up dying in their sin, then it is on you. and that is the way i view this. there is a lot going on where we have got our eyes open, we are paying attention to what is going on in our culture and around the world. and the pastors should be telling people, hey, these are the things that god said in his word that we should be looking for. these are the things that are happening and we need to be very well aware. and so i look at it that way, we are watchmen and we all are watchmen in a sense. and so i want to make sure that we get good information to you and that way you can help sound the alarm to your friends, your family and your neighbors. amen. amen. so i do want to thank you for coming out tonight. and i have with me tonight a very special guest that is going to invite up our guest tonight. many of you have seen her. she is been on our watch before. she is been here with her husband, dr. jeff barkey. this is mary barkey. she is on the orange county board of education. and so that is a huge thing for especially for us at our watch because you know the heart that we have for children and how open our eyes are to what they are doing to indoctrinate our kids. and that is been just a huge thing for us because we have literally been calling the public school system the indoctrination factory. and so it is just a blessing to know that there are people like you who will bring a voice of reason to the orange county board of education. and the orange county board actually has some pretty good people on that. i am wishing that the actual individual school districts would get people like you on them. but this is a massive fight we are in. you have been definitely helping to lead the charge and that we are grateful for you. and so mary barkey, would you please introduce up your friend and our guest this evening? i would love to do that. thank you all for being here. i am so excited to be here. i am so excited to introduce my favorite candidate for governor. do not tell anybody but he is definitely my favorite. he is an amazing assemblyman. he is the son of a special needs teacher. he was a teacher himself in los angeles. he is an attorney. he was the guy who sued the governor and won. yes. gotta love that. and he is out there fighting for us every single day. the reason we had to invite you here on the weekend rather than our normal wednesday is because during the week he is fighting for us in the assembly. he is one of the few people there that fights for the kids. he fights for school choice. he fights for freedom. and i know on day one he is going to remove the emergency order that will give all of us our freedom back. so i am very, very excited to introduce to you tonight assemblyman kevin kylie. thank you very much. thank you for coming out. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i am very excited to be here on the weekend. i want to ask you another question which to me was probably the single most intriguing thing about you was the fact that you sued our governor in the midst of the pandemic. it was my pleasure. it was our pleasure as well. i want to read just a portion of what was put out by the courts that day. i want to have you because you have got multiple degrees, harvard, gale, and i have some education degree because i was a teacher for a while. i want to read this and then we will have you explain this. here's what it says executive order and 6720 issued by the governor on june 3, 2020 is void as an unconstitutional exercise of legislative power and shall be no further force or effect. the california emergency services act does not authorize or empower the governor of the state of california to amend statutory law or make new statutory law which is exclusively a legislative function not delegated to the governor under the cesa. go ahead and unpack that for us. i did not understand any of that. this was the ruling that came down from a superior court in northern california. we had and it was james gallagher and i, who is another member of the legislature who represents the district in northern california. great assembly member. we actually represented ourselves. the legislature decided we are not going to work anymore so it adjourned indefinitely. we decided to do something about this because he decided to rule the state by decree. he was issuing executive order after executive order. a lot of things that had nothing to do with covid. we had to do something about this as legislators. these are our powers actually. make laws. that is the way it is supposed to work. you learn about it in school. we have an executive branch, legislative branch, and judicial branch. we decided to sue him and we also said, well, we are lawyers by trade. why do not we just represent ourselves? we went and got a preliminary injunction initially. the trial ended up being in november and we wrote all the briefs ourselves. did all the arguments ourselves and whatnot. it was actually one of the most amazing days of my life when we arrived for this trial. we are preparing for all of this in obscurity. we were just writing these briefs. hundreds of pages of briefs that we did by the time this thing was over. i show up at the courthouse and it is completely packed the parking lot. i have to park some place off that i get there and there is just hundreds and hundreds of people who have showed up to support us at this trial and to support this effort to rain the government. i would later learn that it was mostly led by the building recall movement. we ended up winning the trial and the finding by the judge was that the particular order we had challenged. there was a lot we could have challenged. it was unconstitutional not within the governor's powers and she issued a restraining order saying he cannot do things like this going forward. in my view, that would have been applicable to things like the lockdowns as well. if you are going to do something like that which is not even clear you should be able to do it all. if you are going to, then the legislature needs to be involved. the government cannot just come up with it and then impose it on everyone else. long story short, he ended up getting a favorable panel of judges on the third district court of the peels. they all worked, all three of them had worked for governors and they ended up reversing that decision. then in what is truly shocking to me, the california supreme court refused to hear the case. it was four justices pointed by jerry brown, one by gavin newsom. and that shocked you that they refused to hear the case? well, that does not shock me. shock is maybe the wrong word. i just think it is so unacceptable that there you go. you will get other states where there have been challenges to governors overreach of authority which has been known or close to what gavin newsom has done. however, they have come out. it is the state's highest court that has always decided the issue. this is the issue of our time. whether we are going to just surrender the form of government that has worked pretty well in this country for 200 plus years. we decide, well, we are just going to let this opinion from three randomly chosen justices randomly, i can say quote-unquote, on the third district court of the peels to have the binding decision on this. that is why i say now we are seeking justice at the ballot box. that is what the opportunity we have in 10 days. on the side note on this, one of the most important powers of governor has is the power to appoint judges. and i had a point of judges who actually respect the constitution. sort of a novel idea. he did, by the way, gavin newsom. just yesterday, he went on like a judge appointing bid. she appointed 23 judges. and so i do not know, maybe he thinks he might not have the power to appoint judges pretty soon. right. yeah, that is pretty telling. yeah, that is crazy. the american dream is something that is important to me. you may know mike morel, former senator, and a good friend of mine. and one of the things that he is always said, the first time he said it, just like it resonated in my mind. and i have never let it go. biblically. so you know him. you know he is a man that god's word flows out of his mouth. he just, it is in his heart, so it comes out of his mouth. the bible tells us that a good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children. and what mike morel told me, it says, you know, tim, it is more than mine. we need to be able to leave an america to our children's children. the kind of america that we got, the privilege to grow up in. and we are seeing that being stripped away really quick. and there is two amendments that, to me, are the ones that are just flashing right. now that it is so obvious that they are trying to be stripped from us. and i want to get your take on it. if you were to be governor, we have got the first amendment and the second amendment. you know, gun rights are being stripped from californians constantly. if you were a governor, what would you do to ensure that our first and our second, well, all our rights? but specifically, because these are the ones we see are very much under attack. what would you do to ensure that we get to maintain our first and second amendment rights? and as someone who is soon to be a grandfather, i understand, you know, that quote probably has some resonance with the erase. oh, yes. oh, yes. so, i mean, you are absolutely right that we have a state government that even before covid would run roughshod over our constitutional rights. let us, i mean, we could go through them all. but we will start with the first amendment. you know, obviously there have been attacks on religious liberty that predate even the covid shutdowns. it is been building for a long time. there has been, they have gone after, for example, the private christian colleges time and again. i have got one of them in my district, william, just a university. and the united states supreme court even had to strike down a couple years ago, a california law on first amendment grounds, which required crisis pregnancy centers. you are familiar with this law. i am sure to post at their facility where the nearest plant parenthood was or where you could obtain access to an abortion. this is a law passed and signed by the state of california. the united states supreme court struck that down on first amendment grounds. neta hagerra is the attorney that worked on that. and she is a friend of ours. she actually are attorney here at the church. oh, is that right? yes. okay. yeah. and it was, then it was go mobile for life, which was a mobile ultrasound thing that got absorbed by birth choice. i am on the board for birth choice. so we were very familiar with that case and it was something that we were celebrating. i mean, just what a great win. that is an incredible win. yes. and it was a very important one. and that was, it was actually on free speech grounds. because the first amendment, of course, protects your right to freedom of speech against government interference. it also means that the government cannot force you to engage in speech that runs against, you know, your values. and so forcing them to do that, the us supreme court said, was a violation of the first amendment. so the first amendment has five freedoms in it. there is speech, there is, you know, for free exercise and the establishment clause. and i think that, you know, one of the, i think, important opportunities we have right now in california is that we have just seen over the course of the last year and a half, kind of everything that was already wrong here, taken to the nth degree, like put on steroids. and so we had attacks on religious liberty for a long time in california. then we had the very worst, you know, violations of religious liberty in any state in the country during covid-19. as i am sure you are well aware, the us supreme court had to slap down gavin newsom's orders five times, you know, not only related to churches, but to in-home bible studies and other private gatherings. and so i think that, you know, this is a chance for us as a people to reject what he did during covid, but to also turn the page on this long standing, these long standing abuses, the long standing disparagement of religious freedom by putting worship and fellowship beyond the reach of any bureaucrat. so we have covered a few of the first amendment freedoms over the second amendment. one last thing on the first one, because you are talking about the compelled speech. yes. it cannot force you to say something that goes against your own convictions. right. that being said, what we are finding in the state is laws that have been created because there is a super majority in the state legislator against people like me. laws have been created that really has been bad for conservative teachers, take, for instance, a transgender issue. you know, telling a teacher if you do not use a preferred pronoun, if you could see clearly that the child is a male child, but the child wants to be referred to by female pronouns, and you do not use that, then you can be in big trouble as a teacher in california. what are your thoughts on that type of compelled speech? because that is not something that is going to go away anytime soon instead of california. yeah, that is an interesting point. and, you know, it is another example of what is so fundamentally wrong about the way education works in california is that you have that level of minutia regulated at the state level telling every teacher, every school in the state, that this is what you have to do. that is not the way it ought to work, which is why i am a huge advocate for school choice. and i think that is another way in which, you know, we need to use sort of this last year and a half where we have reached kind of the maximum level of government of use with schools just being closed altogether to turn the page on the abuses that it already been building up. and i think that that is what i already had, you know, among the worst public schools in the country, even before covid. so i think that at the end of the day, if you have a robust, meaningful system of school choice, then if that sort of thing is going on, then you can take your child or in the funding goes with the mouse running for a teacher, you can go and teach it another venue where those sort of things do not happen. so i think that is actually introduced some very significant legislation on the subject of school choice. yes. how is that going for you? well, they refused to even hear it. can you believe that? they did not give even legislators a choice over school choice legislation. this is the way our legislature works. it is the same thing with, you have probably heard of ab 455, which we have managed to kill for the year. so they just kind of come up with this two weeks before the legislature adjourned and turn a toll road bill into, you know, this thing that runs completely contrary to america's founding value, something that is never happened in this country before. and so our legislature, i mean, i have been there five years. i can tell you, it is a total shame. like we do not have a true representative process in this state, which is kind of like why it was not such a big deal that the legislature moral has disappeared last year. so it is it is robious and special interest who run it anyway. so maybe it is just easier if they tell the governor directly what they want to do. okay. you know, gavin newsom, you shut down the schools. then we do not have to wrangle with 120 different legislators. so i am supporting an initiative on the ballot next year that is going to actually put funding, you know, have the funding follow the student. and i think that with, you know, the recall, if it is successful, and then that initiative on the horizon, there will actually be an opportunity to try to induce the legislature to pass some form of meaningful school choice. yeah. school choice is going to be a massive issue for us. come that come that if we can get that on the ballot. we have to find a way to take back control from the cta, take back control with these local unions, local associations, because that is the, i call the public school system, the indoctrination factory. that is this works at and we have to be able to find a way to create competition within the schools. that is right. and that is what school choice will do. you mentioned ab 455 is dead till next year. we still have ab 1102 with that. where is that one at? so not entirely clear. the language still is not in print, which is incredible. the legislature adjourns for the year on friday, and you are going to try to ram this thing through, which still at this moment, what is today saturday. the legislature adjourns in less than a week, and you are going to have this bill go through. i mean, there is no opportunity for public input, public deliberation. i mean, even the bare sort of remnants of those things that we have in our ordinary legislative process does not exist. and, you know, that is i think another sort of overarching theme of the recall is that this is a chance to bring power back to the people, to reclaim control over our state government. and, you know, a year and a half when we have been told your voice does not matter. the only voice that matters is one person's gavin newsom's. he is going to issue order after order after order. and that means you need to shut down your church, pastor. sorry, it is nothing you could do about it. you need to shut down your small business. yeah, exactly. i am going to run them. okay, so second amendment. we did not. we have like the craziest gun laws in the country in california. i have got a perfect rating from all the second amendment groups, but it is really not that hard just because what is being proposed is just so clearly bad that it is, you know, there is no question of whether to vote against it. but, and i have also proposed some legislation to try to strengthen second amendment rights. so, and ironically, you know, there is one group who sort of is being treated kind of well when it comes to firearms. that is criminals. when it comes to the use of guns in the commission of crimes, somehow we keep lowering the penalties for that or not really taking it seriously when felons are improperly in possession of firearms. or with prop 47, stealing a gun was lowered from a felony to a misdemeanor. and so we have been continually making law-abiding citizens into criminals by changing the laws overnight. so what you have got in your safe is suddenly contraband. and then at the same time, we are sort of making non-criminals out of people who are actually committing crimes. yeah, especially in the county of los angeles. yeah, because that gas going, i mean, just if you have not looked into what the da in los angeles is doing, just do a quick google search, you will find it is totally nefarious what is happening out there in los angeles. we have got to thank god that we live in riverside county for those of us that are here right now, living here with an amazing da, mike hestrin, and an incredible sheriff, chavionko. what a dynamic duo those guys are. so let us talk about medical freedom, which i know for my audience is a huge issue. and right now we are seeing with the ab 455, the ab 1102. so these are trying to snake this in and force us to get the vaccines. i have got so many people that go to this church that i passed her and just my online audience that i talk with that are fearful. and we actually were the first church in the state of california. we were the first church to come out with a doctrine against the mrna. that was for us with our belief system. unfortunate for us, what happened was the wall street journal wrote an article about it, which went across the nation. and then our phone service and our email service was flooded with people who wanted this religious exemption form. and that just shows you, people all over the states are calling this little church in marietta going, i need that. so to us, this is a huge issue and it is an issue of freedom. and for me, it is an issue of, i want my religious beliefs respected. so if you were elective governor, what would you do to ensure our medical freedoms? well, number one is i terminate the state of emergency. that has the first thing i do. it is a year and a half and that has a couple of things. first, i think it is just, it is an important symbol saying, you know, we are getting on with our lives. we are not going to live with this pandemic mentality forever. and other states have terminated their states of emergency. it is time. and that, but secondly, and more importantly, that is what is being used as the predicate for all of these emergency orders at the state and local level. and the way that our emergency services law works. and by the way, i would not just choose to terminate the state of emergency. i would feel obligated to terminate the state of emergency. our law, the emergency services act. that is what the cesa was referring to in that opinion you read earlier. it says that the governor must terminate the state of emergency. and that is what the state of emergency should do. we know how it works. there is no need to have a state of emergency. everyone knows how to protect themselves. and so once what the law says is that as soon as the emergency ends, then all state and local emergency orders issued on or wiped out automatically. and so in my view, that would include these mandates at every level of government. but what if a private corporation says, you know what, i know that the state's not mandating it, but we are going to mandate it for our employees. if you want to work at our company, you have to have this. i do not care about your religious liberties. i do not care what your church, that crazy 412 church over there. i do not care what that maniac pastor says. this is what people write about me, by the way. so what would you do to ensure that that cannot happen because that really truly is a violation of our religious liberty? yeah, it is a trickier issue. and it does kind of highlight a broader issue, which is that corporate power has in many ways become, you know, maybe not as much of a threat, but a threat that is similar in some ways to sort of a concentrated government power. social media, a very clear example of that. it is a democracy. exactly. and you see, you know, this censorship, which i believe on like facebook and twitter has actually become a first amendment issue, and it is one of the most important issues of our time, is to try to restore proper freedom of speech through those channels, since that is where so much of public discourse takes place. but to your question, so it is a trickier issue. i think that, you know, for the governor, it is this sort of unilaterally decree that private companies cannot do this. i am not sure that would be within the bounds of what a governor could do on his or her own. i think that, you know, if the legislature were willing to take steps in that direction, it would be a different story. yeah, well, we saw, you know, governor desantis in florida, he came out strong like that for the people saying, no, we are not going to allow that. we are not going to allow people to do that. yeah, whether he gets the backing of the state legislature or not, i do not know. but it is definitely an issue that i have, i have a church filled with people that are worried about that. yeah. so a massive concern for them. so just know that, that if you are to get elected, that is something we really care a lot about. we want our religious liberties. we want our beliefs to be respected. one of the things i was talking to you about because i have been involved in political issues prior to covid and one of those massive things for me, for me was the ab 329. that is the comprehensive sexuality training, which is so it is not sex ed, like like many of us got when we were in school, the birds and the bees and, you know, the biology of it, but it is actual sexual training. like how to be sexual, how to enjoy sex, things like that. and once that was introduced, all sorts of filth was allowed at a greater level. it was already happening on public school systems or public school campuses, but it just went on steroids. it was the, you know, that was the covid, that was the pandemic in the schools then was the ab 329. so what would you do? because i know that you have helped with new laws, you have helped with the freedom of speech, the criminal justice reform protections for sexual assault victims. these are all things that matter to you. and then obviously school choice. so what do you say about the sexual indoctrination that is clearly taking place on our school campuses? yeah, i mean, some of these materials are just truly shocking. and, you know, i certainly am opposed to sb 329. that was a bill that was passed by the legislature and signed by the governor, but actually a lot of the stuff that you are seeing comes from the board of education and the various, you know, committees they have set up to produce the curriculum. so there is power, you know, within the executive branch, which the governor leads to potentially change some of that, which i think needs to happen. but, you know, but this gets it at another issue. i mean, in addition to the broader principle of school choice, you know, there is also the matter of kind of where decision making power resides. and with that, you have an example of this really radical curriculum that is being devised in sacramento and then forced upon every community throughout the state. so what happens? you know, you as a parent go to your school board member who might be someone that you know, or at least is more accessible than, you know, let us say the governor or someone in sacramento. and you say, i do not want this to be taught to my kids. and what do they tell you? they say, well, there is not a lot we can do about it. this is a mandate that is coming down to us from sacramento. and so that is what we need to change. i mean, i think that the most important job of the next governor is to make it less important who the governor is. and then i think that is not turning power to local communities and their citizens, right? right. yeah, and that is like the never ending circle i was in. i would go to the school board, they say, hey, well, we have no say you got to go talk to california board of education. so i fly up to sacramento and talk to them, they go, no, this is a local issue. you got to go talk to your school board. and i go back to school board. no, they said that i have to talk to you. well, they go, no, and our hands are tied. and it is just, it is this. exactly. and the thing is, it should not be like that. so one of the things i resolved to do is say, i am not flying up to sacramento anymore. i am starting with the school board. i am not moving from the school board until a, they will do it what we want as a community or b, we replace them and put somebody in there that will do what we want as a community. and once we get them on board, then we can go start going up the ladder. and so that is the approach we are going to take, but you are absolutely right. we got to put the power back where it should be. and that is local because all politics are local. another thing within the public school system and obviously it is not just public schools. this is everywhere in every woke corporation, but critical race theory has become a big issue. and i actually brought out a book that, that one of our, what pastor simon, our executive pastor here at the church, he found this at a local store and, and it is called our skin. and it is a children's book and you open it up. and it essentially just said that white people came up with the idea of race and white people think that they are better. they are in prettier and deserve more and all those nonsense. and this is the stuff that is being pumped into the minds of our young kids, dividing them up on race when, when we as christians say, i do not want you to divide us up on race. we believe what acts chapter 17 says that from one blood, god made all people. and so we are all, we are all people. we are all part of the human race. and we do not want to divide by race, but then they, they go, oh, your racist then. no, you are the one being racist. so where, where do you stand on that and what steps could you take as governor to ensure that critical race theory gets squashed on the state level? well, i, i adamantly oppose it. and there is a bill right now in the legislature, as you may know, that would not only allow crt to be taught in schools, but they would require it for every high school student as a graduation requirement or ethnic studies. that is what they are calling it. but so here's an interesting thing that many people are not aware of. i was asked recently in an interview, can you name one thing that gavin newsom did right? and that was a really hard question. i just thought about it. by the way, he is my constituent, gavin newsom is, he lives in, i am his assemblyman, lives in my district. for now anyway. and so that i, it occurred to me. one thing he is done right is that he was against crt two years ago when the original version of this curriculum was released. it was not just him. it was everyone. it was universally connected. what is this newsom said it is offensive in so many ways. and it will never see the light of day. that is what he said. the head of the california legislative jewish caucus, which is 12 democrat legislators, said that the curriculum quote, echoes the propaganda of the nazi regime. and so you would think, well, we should scrap this whole thing right now. and maybe we should figure out who came up with it and see whether they should keep their jobs with cancel culture and everything these days. people have lost their careers for things a lot less serious than trying to teach nazi propaganda to high school students. but now that is not what happened. they said, we will make a few tweaks, we will make a few edits, we will tone down the anti-semitism a little bit. then we will impose it on every high school student in california. that bill is wending its way through the legislature. i think it will come to a final vote this week. and then gavin newsom will make a decision on whether to sign or veto that bill. and unfortunately, you probably will not have a new governor before that decision gets made. but you certainly could try to roll it back if he does sign the bill. but i will just make one final point on this, which is that we need to fight to defeat crt. that is one of the most important issues right now, i think that we face. but i think that our goal needs to be bigger than that. what we really need to do is to restore civics in our schools, true civic education. that is what crt and this agenda has exposed. it is exposed to vacuum that we do not teach civics like we used to. we used to think about education in terms of for tearing our kids for citizenship to be participants in the great american experiment of self-government to understand why america is the greatest country in the world what our founding principles and values are. so that they would be prepared to be active citizens in their communities. and we do not do that anymore. and so crt has come along. and it is like exploiting that vacuum. it is saying, well, i call it the anti civics. if we are no longer going to teach our kids how to build their communities up, then we will teach them how to tear their communities down. and so we need to defeat crt, but we also need to start teachings of x-a-vix again. i agree. great. businesses. i know several people going through the last 18 months, businesses that they work their whole life trying to build up and it seemed like overnight they lost them. so what would you do to try to ensure that that never happens again and also to try to create an environmental environment of capitalism. an environment where people go, hey, look, i can achieve the american dream if i am willing to work hard and sacrifice and continue to strive to do well. i can make something to myself here in california because a lot of people are leaving california because they think there is just no way. i cannot make anything of themselves that got to go to another state. and i keep telling them, do not leave, stay and fight. stay in the line. we have got to stay and fight. but what would you do to try to ensure that there is that kind of environment where people go, okay, i can achieve that american dream. right. right. i like the way you ask that question because california has always been sort of where the full glory of the american dream is realized. right. it used to be the state where anyone could get ahead and now it is the state that so many people cannot wait to leave behind. last year, our population declined for the first time in california's 170 year history and not just by a little bit, by 182,000 people. and you talk about businesses. this is yet another example of sort of the theme of california kind of already being the worst at something and then being like the worst of the worst during the covid era. so we already were the worst when it came to how we treat small businesses, but then we had the worst lockdowns of any state in the country. and what is the result over the first half of this year, the number of business departures from california has doubled to what it was before. and it was already a lot before. so, you know, i say gavin newsom, you know, has brought what was a long term decline kind of into this total free fall. and, you know, the idea that california is anti business really, you know, needs to be more specific because it really is anti small business. right. a lot of major corporations, they like regulations. a lot of major corporations, they were exempted from lockdowns. hollywood was exempted from lockdowns. you see that video from angela marson in la where her restaurant was closed outdoor dining and they got a film set across the street. i mean, that is california government in a nutshell, you know, it is the powerful who benefit. and so big corporations, they can deal with the onslaught of regulations and everything because they have in house compliance departments, they have attorneys on staff who can help them avoid litigation risks, they have big margins and can avoid the cost. they welcome this as barriers to entry for small businesses. but we have seen before covid and we saw, especially during covid, is it is the sort of, you know, the mom and pop store that is been on the same street corner for generations that creates the character of the company. it creates the character of the community that brings the community together. that is who is who paid the price. those are the establishments that died and drove. so how do we turn it around? well, i think it is the same thing as when it comes to religious liberty and when it comes to economic freedom. is we need to not only, you know, correct the abuses of the last year and a half but turn the page on the whole reverse the whole trajectory that we have been on. i could give you, you know, some very clear examples of how we do that over turn ab five, which is a ban on the dependent contract and was absolutely devastated. a lot of freelancers. there are things like the private attorney general's act, which is a huge, you know, which puts a lot of, a lot of companies out of business. and then you could sort of go through the code. i mean, and that is one thing a governor can do is a lot of the damage is done at the level of agencies turning out regulations. and as the governor, you are the leader of those agencies, the leader of the executive branch. so you could immediately start to create an environment that is actually supportive of small business rather than continually attacking them. all right. yeah. i wish i could say that i already know the answer to this question because you are a christian. but unfortunately, i have had a lot of people who even fly, they do what i call fly the banner of christianity. i am a christian, but then when you get down to where they stand on issues, they might not necessarily stand on what the bible would say. so would you consider yourself to be pro-life? yes. okay. so let me, let me qualify that. i want to make sure that we are both on the same page. what the answer, yes, means in the case of rape. woman's been raped. or in the case of a woman's health being in jeopardy. are you still against abortion with those two? so those are harder issues because there is a federal law relating to that and the high-demand, which is- well, i am not talking about with the laws. i am just talking about you personally, your belief system. because as christians, we want to vote for somebody who is closest to the heart of god. so i know what the federal laws are because i said i am on the board for birth choice. and so knowing that, you have got to know i am, you know, life is an important issue to me. but we do not have to agree on everything. right. i just want to know for you and who you are, what is your thoughts? i mean, i think that if you comment sort of the pro-life position from the perspective that the unborn child is a life that is, you know, it is the responsibility of the government to protect, then sort of the manner of conception probably should not factor into the analysis. okay. i agree, by the way. what about the woman's health, though? what about that? those are harder questions, i think, because then there is, you know, there is a real balance that needs to be struck. so i do not know what your opinion. well, what i say is this is when you leave room for abortion on any level, especially when it comes to woman's health, that is such an ambiguous term. because now you are leaving it up to who to determine what is the woman's health condition, is it just that she is stressed out from being pregnant and, you know, the stress is causing her to lose some hair and, you know, it is just stress is bad for you. so this is bad for her health. you could get a doctor that says, yeah, it is bad for her health. go ahead and do the abortion. it is so ambiguous that, to me, it is not, you are not drawing the line clear enough. right. so for me, i look at it exactly what you said previously is if we can determine that it is a human life at all levels, then it is a human life, and it is the government's responsibility to protect it. especially as we grow further and further down the road of understanding science, you know, we look at, so i am a bit older than you. so i am a different generation, but my generation, i am gen x, gen x, so my generation was not very pro-life, but you look at, you know, like my son is a millennial, i have a daughter who is gen z. their generations are actually more pro-life than my generation. the reason they are more pro-life is because of the understanding of science. because they understand that dna is a digital code. they understand that everybody's digital code, everybody's dna is unique to them. and so they understand that once that is for a means that egg, there is a unique digital code that is that person. and that is why you are seeing that advancement and understanding of dna and how that works, you are seeing that they understand that is an individual person. so once that unique dna is formed, that is a whole other person. and that person has rights, and those rights need to be protected wherever they are at in their development. wherever that dna is, you know, from that point until it ends up dying, it is that person. so that is how i view it. but i appreciate you saying that at those levels, at any level of that development, this is the government's role to defend that person. so i appreciate that. let me ask you as far as the border. obviously a border is a huge issue right now. and some people will say, well, that is not a biblical issue. why do you care? it is absolutely a biblical issue. again, acts chapter 17 where i said that from one blood, god made all people. not only did he make all people, but it says that he defined the boundaries of their inhabitation. where he defined the borders. god's the one that sets them up. and so if god's the one that sets those up, god's the one that determines it, then to me, that is a god issue. that is a bible issue. any attempt to tear it down is just going against god's words. so to me, borders are important. pastors should be talking about it. but i understand that there is the political side of borders as well. so right now we have got obscene numbers of people violating our laws and coming across the border. and that is, in my opinion, is because of failed presidency, namely joe biden. you know, because we look at how it was going. i was not clear to me. i was just making sure that everybody that hears me online. i know you all know what i am talking about. but, you know, the thing is, this is a problem. it is a problem for our state in particular being a border state. this is a problem. and it is not getting better. it seems to be getting worse. what would you do as governor to ensure that the laws would be followed? well, i do everything i could because i mean, it is absolutely, you know, a untenable situation. what we have right now with everything associated with it, you know, not only the inflow of people, but the issues related to human trafficking related to drugs, not to mention covid-19, by the way. and what we have seen is the consequences of this change in policy. so what could a governor at the state level do within the constraints of state power? well, i do everything i could using state authority to try to staunch the flow of people coming in. there are limits to that. and i take the constitutional limits very seriously because i have been very critical of the other side for intruding upon those. very clear example of that, sanctuary state. this is what they decided to do in 2017. and i would want to, i fought against that as my first year in the legislature, which is just a terrible law. terrible law. i mean, what it does, it specifically applies to criminal, you know, in undocumented immigrants. so it does not apply to anyone but them, but people who number one are in the country in the state illegally. and number two, have been detained for a criminal offense. it carves out a special protection in law for them to prevent your local law enforcement from alerting federal immigration authorities. it is a terrible, terrible law. and no one, you know, for decades has what would have ever, you know, supported anything like that. we have always agreed that the first on the list for people who need to be deported are those who have committed crimes. this is a basic idea. and then you have all of these benefits as well. like the governor just signed a bill that provided an unprecedented expansion of medical for undocumented immigrants. none of this is helping the situation. no, it is not. so what do you think the solution is though? well, apart from, you know, having new policy at the federal level. i mean, i think that the things that i just mentioned need to be undone. so i would want to fight the sanctuary state bill and every way i could. you would need to get a new law for it to be overturned, but the governor could potentially sort of ease up enforcement or provide ways to get around. in fact, a lot of local law enforcement departments have done just that. they found ways around it. and it certainly stopped any further expansion. try to rule back some of the benefits that are in place. and then you know, you have seen some governors get creative in terms of what they can do to use their own personnel to assist at the border. and so i would certainly be interested in looking at what i could legally do there. yeah, so we watch what happened with with governor abbott and his border issue there. government trying to say, well, hey, you do the testing, the covid testing. and we will just reimburse you to do it. and he is like, no, this is this is your job. this is a federal issue regarding the border. you do your job. we have not heard much from gavin newsom. as far as what is going on on our border, one of the things i know for sure, we actually i did a video with a nurse several months back that ended up going viral. and it actually sparked a senate hearing on the issue of the border because they were flying patients from from down in callexico. they would just cross over going to our hospital. we put them on a helicopter to fly them here into our county. and it was they would count them as a covid patient there in that county. then when they fly them to our county, they count them as a covid patient in our county. and there was flights going every 15 minutes. and we were tracking it on the on the app where you can track flights. we were seeing the helicopters all throughout the night. and they were doing it at night so that way people would not see it. so we so what happened with the hearing what are they? well, they brought out all sources statistics and it shed a lot of light on it, but it is nothing's happened. it is still happening as you know, you know, our border is just totally porous at this point. and we were getting numbers. there is over 100,000 people every day that cross our border every single day. that is not all illegal, but i mean, there is over 100,000 people every day that cross our border. that is a massive amount of people. and what we are finding is it is it is a huge problem for the covid issue because they are not being tested. here we are. we are being told to be tested every two times a week. if you want to have your job and not have a vaccine, you got to be tested. but then the borders open and they are just flooding across. that is that is very poor mismanagement on our state. i think that fault rests on gavin newsom. so should you become governor, then we are going to be looking to you. okay, what are you going to do to stop that from happening? right. and i will tell you this, i am not, i am not against immigration. i just want immigration to be done properly. i want people to do it legally. and i know this for a fact because i have been involved in trying to help people get their family here from another country. because i was involved in doing missions work. when you do not involve in doing missions work, people go over as missionaries and they end up getting married and they have kids in that state or in that in that nation. then they want to come home to america and they cannot, they have trouble getting their kids here. and the system is broken. the system is flawed in many ways. i mean, some of these questions like are ridiculous. there is no question about isis, no question about anything. but they are asking about are you a part of the nazi communist party? like, what? like that is a long time ago. that should not even be a question on there anymore. but they are asking those because it is been so long since they revamped any of these things. and it is really, really difficult to do it legally. yeah, extremely difficult. and i think that is wrong. we need to change that. but this would, if you become governor, that is the fact is being at the top is lonely. well, it is lonely because the buck stops with you and that is true. and i think that, you know, that is inherent to political leadership is that you have to make difficult to solicit choices. and people are not everyone's going to be happy. in fact, i am pretty sure that, you know, everyone in this room could probably find at least one vote i have made in my thousands of votes that you disagreed with. that is the way it is. but i think that what you can do in leadership is, you know, is the way you reach decisions is often just as important as the decisions you make. and bringing as many people as possible into the process. and i think is vitally important. and kind of like what i was saying before, you could also sort of decentralize the locus of decision making down to the level that is as close to the affected communities as possible. and that is where we think we have gone so haywire over the last year and a half in particular. but even before that is that, you know, decisions that affect people's lives in such direct and intimate ways are being made from afar. and my favorite making decisions at the level as local as possible. and by the way, the most local level of decision making is that of the individual citizen. right. amen to that. that is something we cannot ever forget here in america. okay, we are running that time. i want to just give you an opportunity. look, we know there is a lot of bad stuff going on. so as we close, just leave us with some encouragement. what could you give us to walk away from tonight feeling encouraged? well, look, that is not hard at all because we have a golden opportunity right now in 10 days to set the state on a whole new course. i mean, i, you know, i have been in the legislature for five years and i have been fighting against the corruption of the supermajority and everything else for five years. and right now we have a chance to just completely change the game. and it is not because of anything that politicians like me have done. it is not because of anything that the state party has done. it is because of what people like you have done folks who are in your communities and have said enough is enough. we are going to fight back stay in fight. i love that you said that pastor because that is exactly what we see happening. and i think that, you know, i have been traveling the state quite a bit turns out it is a big state. in the two months since i started this campaign, i have been to the most conservative communities. i have been to the most liberal communities. i had one day where i was in bakersfield and santa cruz. unbelievable amounts of energy everywhere. and the thing about the recall is it is not something that is just, i mean, of course it is driven by anger and frustration. and everything else that, you know, we have had to go through over the last year and a half of course it is driven by dislike, shall we say, but forgive and do some. but this is not a movement that is purely about negative emotions. what i see, you know, most of all is a sense of optimism and hope that actually we are going to demonstrate the power of a free people to make tomorrow better than today. and i think that when california does that, it is going to send shock waves across the nation that, you know, we are going to come out of this dark year of government control. we will light a new spark of liberty. i agree with you 100%. i have been saying this for a long time. we are going to see a great awakening here in america. and when you study the great awakenings that have happened previously, there is always been a high concentration where it, where it begins and then it goes throughout the rest of the country like in the first great awakening. it was new york and they had the burned over district in new york. and burned over because people were on fire spiritually. so that was what that was. and i believe with this great awakening, california is going to be that epicenter. i really truly believe that. so thank you for sharing that. thank you for spending your time with us tonight. i hope you can hang out. i cannot be people to love. i know you guys want to get a chance to talk with them. thank you for your questions. thank you so much. and god bless you and god bless you. all right. all right. you guys. thank you. thanks everyone. thank you very much. all right. i want to just remind you do not forget this coming wednesday. we have got charlie kirk coming out. you are not going to want to miss that. you are not going to want to be late because you will not be able to get in. so this wednesday, 7 p.m. we will be live streaming it for those of you that cannot make it also want to remind you that monday morning, i have got a special bible study right here at 412 church in marietta. it is going to be at 9 a.m. it is just going to be an hour long bible study that i am going to be doing for those of you that do not know it is. i want to explain to you what ross is in the bible and what that means and what are the things that we are supposed to be looking for prophetically when it comes to the jewish calendar. the hebrew calendar is massively important to us as christians. so this monday, 9 a.m. right here and cannot wait to see you guys. god bless you. we really do hope that our guests today and our time together was a blessing to you. i want to ask if it was. would you please share this video out with your friends on social media. also hit that like button. make sure you subscribe to us so that way you can be updated every time we have a new episode of our watch. again, blessing to have you with us and we hope that you have a blessed time being effective for the kingdom in the culture that we live in. you