good evening and welcome to law talk. the show that brings you the constitution and the legal issues of the day, one evening a month. i am mark mollikowski and with me i have kevin kylie and james barrett's on vacation this month so i am going to be hosting. so kevin, you have been on our show before and last time you were here you talked a little bit about prop 47 but for people who missed that show can you give me a little idea about your educational background, your work background and what you are up to these days and kind of what we rehash of what we covered on prop 47. sure, sure, no problem and thank you very much for having me on again. i enjoyed the opportunity to be here some months back to discuss prop 47 and really appreciate the invitation. so i am kevin kylie. i worked as deputy attorney general for the state. i am currently the republican nominee for the california state assembly in the sixth district and last time we were on we discussed an initiative that was passed in 2014 known as prop 47 and right now in california we are in the midst of the biggest increase in crime we have had in some time and that is directly attributable to the fallout from prop 47 and a number of other misguided measures. so prop 47 from my recollection had to do with a lot of crimes that used to be felonies were downgraded to misdemeanors and that took some power away from prosecutors and now i have even noticed going into walgreens or cvs a lot of people just walking they take stuff and that people are going to excuse me sir but people are just walking out with stuff now there is not much to store keepers can do if it is under a thousand dollars. exactly if it is under nine hundred and fifty dollars then i am sorry. the punishment could be no more than a misdemeanor no matter how many times you do it it is not worth prosecutors even going after them usually it is just a citation and you are like go and this is given birth to what is known as the frequent flyer phenomenon where you have guys who are caught stealing you know a dozen times and still nothing can happen to them. okay so and lately what why do not we talk a little bit about your background what is your educational background. so i have a a bachelor's from harvard i have a law degree from yale and i have a master's in secondary education from loyal and mariam. so you were a school teacher for a while right. i was yep i taught 10th grade english. okay and where was that. that was down in la. down in los angeles okay and the district you are running for is district. it is district six and that is near roseville. yep roseville is the largest city in the district it is a bit east of sacramento and so did not you have some you did not you have some competition in the primary. we had a pretty competitive race actually yeah we the most candidates of any state legislative race in all california there are 11 of us and of course we have the open primary now in california so there are eight republicans two democrats and an independent and so now it is myself and one of the democrats that it is advanced and you know i was a really spirited race there were some great candidates in there so i feel quite lucky to still be on my feet. so a big day is coming november 8th right that is how it is the general yep okay and so you are getting prepared for that great okay so you are going to be right an assembly person or assemblyman if you are if you if you prevail and how many assembly people are are in the state legislature. so the assembly is one of two houses of the legislature it is just like congress for the federal government you have the the senate and the house of representatives there in california it is the same thing you got the senate we just call the lower house the state assembly so there are 80 state assembly members the each one represents just under half million people and their their term is for how many years two years so you have a two year term and the senate how many senators are there in the state of california and and what is their term one so 40 senators each one represents around a million people and they serve four year terms okay four year terms and is there any term limit of how many terms you can serve what is that so you can serve up to 12 years overall and that can be allocated any which way between the house and the senate. even if you are a governor is that count two or is it just for the senate. that is separate the deal okay okay so you have got a big election coming up and tonight we want to talk a little bit about prop 57 because that is going to be on the november 8th ballot as well right exactly and so that is the public safety and rehabilitation act of 2016 and i think that governor brown has invested a lot of money in this and i think he is got a lot of money left in his work chest. he has i do not remember the exact amounts of money he is putting it but i know he is he is put in maybe about a quarter of money he has which is several millions so he is got multiple millions that he wants to put into this so. so governor brown has is putting a lot of prestige and money behind this so what do you think is his if his his impetus for wanting to get this pass. well that is a great question and you know i do not know exactly what his motivations might be. he was governor at the time that what is known as determinant sentencing went into effect. so three strikes would not exactly the determinant sentencing just sort of means that there are fixed terms you know a given number of years for particular crimes. but is not there sometimes like from two to four to the six. yeah so there is still some room for a minute. okay all right instead of but a judge you cannot say you you know one guy gets six years the other guy gets one day. it is got to be right right. two to six or whatever exactly. somewhere in that range. okay so this prop is just with 50 cents. the proponents say that that it authorizes pro-conservation for people with nonviolent convictions who complete their full sentence for their primary offense. now some of the wording in the in the bills a little complex and so can you kind of explain to us what is a primary offense what is a secondary offense what is an enhancement. sure sure sure. and you give me some examples run us through some examples so folks reading this bill have some idea of what it is about. right well here's the first thing to know that if this proposition is passed it will make up to 30,000 inmates eligible for early release. 16,000 of those would be eligible for early release the day that the proposition takes effect. now it says there in the little summary that will appear on the ballot and was prepared by our attorney general that this only applies to nonviolent offenders. but i think you would be surprised to learn some of the crimes that qualify as nonviolent. here are a few examples. rate by intoxication is considered a nonviolent offense. rate of an unconscious person is considered a nonviolent offense. sex trafficking drive by shooting assault with a deadly weapon taking a hostage false imprisonment of an elder just to name a few. these are considered so unviolent offense. so you are telling me that a drive by shooting is considered nonviolent. correct if you actually you know hit your target then it might graduate to a violent crime. okay so if you are a bad shot then it is nonviolent but if you hit him then you would be in trouble. correct correct. so you know that is kind of strange because usually an attempt is just as serious as completing the crime. yeah well this is sort of a separate offense but if you look at arson arson causing great bodily injury you can actually succeed there. still considered a nonviolent crime under the law that prop 57 will apply to. so that is the first thing to know about this initiative is that it will lead to the early release of thousands and thousands of dangerous offenders and voters are being misled as to who these offenders are. okay well proponents say that this is going to save taxpayer dollars by reducing wasteful spending within our correctional system. so what kind of you know as things stand now what is the wasteful spending that the proponents are talking about here? i mean keeping too many people in prison for too long? that is a that is a good question. the same claims were made about prop 47 past two years ago which has led thousands of folks out early and an analysis by the nonpartisan legislative analyst office have showed there have been minimal savings and in fact as the prison population has decreased the costs of the corrections budget has increased. so you know the fiscal impact of the initiative is anything but clear and of course there is a vast social cost associated with increased criminal activity but i want to get back to the question that you asked a minute ago which is what exactly does this mean? what is a primary offense and and all of that? okay well let us let us kind of move on here and talk a little bit we will come back to that but let us talk a little bit about some of the due process issues and some of the issues here that that seems to me that there is going to be some some big changes in the way that that that defendants are viewed okay because my understanding in the past a prosecutor had the discretion of whether they were going to charge a juvenile as a you know as an 18-year-old you know as an adult in certain cases you know if the crime was heinous or they showed there were certain maturity or the level of violence was so high that you know it or maybe in certain gang things that looked like they are acting as an adult so so what do you think about a situation like that? is that going to be a big is that going to stymie prosecutors somehow? well so mark's referring to another provision of prop 57 this is a relatively less significant one than the other provisions but it is still as you know to potentially you know a potential change to the system this is different than what we were just talking about this is a provision that specifically relates to juvenile offenders the existing rule gives prosecutors the discretion whether to try them as an adult the proposed change here would put that decision in the hands of judges which is and it would also change some of the rules as far as which kind of offenses automatically qualify for treatment as an adult. okay so now judges in general are more lenient than prosecutors as far as deciding whether juveniles are tried as adults is that kind of a sense that that the proponents have is that there would be more juveniles staying in the juvenile system than getting bumped up in the prison system is does that their apparent goal there? you would have to ask them i mean it is sort of a departure from the adversarial system that really defines our legal system at all levels and you know in all forms which is that it is you know in the context of criminal cases it is the prosecutions duty to try to prove their case and it is the duty of the defense to try to cast out on that case and then the judge is there is sort of a referee charging decisions usually are not put in the hands of judges but here it would give them that decision even when it comes to say a 17-year-old gang member who commits a murder. so it is kind of a little bit like the napoleonic system the judges involve being prosecuted or in charge right or in the quiz tutorial right. so that is kind of a that is kind of a big change. okay so one thing i think that the proponents talk about is in the juvenile system people have an opportunity for more rehabilitation than the in the prison system. do you view that as as is a big difference i mean is it more likely that the citizens are going to be rehabilitated going through the juvenile system or going to the prison system to have any thoughts on that. it seems that their their idea is that you know there is a chance the juvenile could be recovered i guess it going through the juvenile system. yeah i mean i usually when a juvenile is tried as an adult it is really only the most serious cases you know and where the crime has shown a you know an adult like a faculty for depravity on the part of the juvenile. so you know this again is a provision that i do not think is going to be a good one but you know it is comparatively minor when you know next to the major you know provisions of this initiative which could potentially lease release up to 30,000 dangerous offenders early. okay so one of the claims of proponents is this the prop 57 keeps the most dangerous offenders locked up and they are saying over the last several decades california's jail and prison system population have exploded and california spends nearly 10% of a general fund on our prison system and we are spending too much money liking up nonviolent offenders. so what they are what the prop is is 50 57 proponents are saying that this is only for nonviolent offenders but let us kind of go back and let us touch back on the on what we are saying the primary offense secondary offense enhancements. yeah how sentient how sentient are figured out right right right and how is this going to affect that. yeah so it on its face applies to nonviolent offenders of course we have seen that many of these offenders are committing some of the worst crimes you can you can think of but basically this initiative would be a blow to the heart of what is known as proportionate sense you know the idea that if you commit a more serious crime maybe you should do more time or if you commit multiple crimes maybe you should receive more punishment than someone who commits just one or if you have convictions for serious crimes in your past maybe that merits additional punishment. prop 57 would sort of in one fell swoop sweep all of that aside and you know these are fairly common sense intuitive ideas that have you know are deeply embedded in our criminal code and have been vital towards public safety in california so when you receive a sentence your primary offense if you are convicted of multiple crimes that is the longest sentence that you are given the most serious crime. now under existing law you can still be punished for the other convictions and then serve those sentences consecutively. what this initiative would do is it say the regardless of how many other crimes you are convicted of and the other consecutive sentences that are imposed you will be eligible for parole after you have served the primary term. okay let us say that you rob a bank okay so you have got an armed robbery let us say that you end up shooting the guard okay and the guard dies so you have got a murder and let us say you are using a gun in the crime. so those would be i guess gun would be an enhancement you have got a murder and you have got an armed robbery. how would this work for those? you are telling me the armed robbery might get thrown out and the murder would be the count. so yeah good question so if you have multiple convictions then you would only have to serve the prison term for the primary offense. with then you would be eligible for parole you could be released after you have served that regardless of how many other years were tacked on because of the other crimes. so that is one way that this would lead to early releases is by getting rid or at least making people eligible for early release before they have served the consecutive sentences. now a second way in which it would undermine existing sentencing laws is by making inmates eligible for parole before they have served enhancements and so you know you are familiar with an enhancement. this is if you commit a crime in such a way that it is especially bad above and beyond the the garden variety version. let us say you are drunk driving but you are going over 80 miles an hour that could be enhancement or let us say you are a drunk driving but you are drunk but you are over a point one five or something like that. so you know so the enhancements usually committing the crime but but doing something a little lecture. yeah so you brought up a good example in your initial scenario which is that you know if you commit robbery you will get a certain sentence and then if you happen to use a gun during the commission of the robbery then there'll be extra years tacked on because that is worse that makes the robbery worse or if it is a hate crime or if it is the crime is connected with a gang activity or if there are multiple victims those are all things that lead to extra years being added to your sentence and deservedly so because this causes more suffering. this is a more serious violation of the law yet. prop 57 would say well it is own after you have served the primary the term for the garden variety offense regardless of how many years you are required to serve for the enhancement you can be released right then and there. okay well let us so what we are talking about here is this is a pretty serious proposition it changes a lot of things and you know so there is a lot of technicalities and i am glad you have straightened some of those out right but let us kind of move on and think of what what is what is going to be the outcome of this i mean what will be the eventual result in your prediction and then what are the proponents predict and also looking at prop 47 what what was the outcome of that so let us let us kind of you know kind of look into our crystal ball here and see what we think might happen if this is past what would remain the same if it is not passed so what are your what are your thoughts on that? well you know this is the last thing that our state needs right now we are in the midst of an uptick in crime that you know the likes of which we have not seen in a long time in the state we had that several measures the latest being prop 47 that have lowered the penalties for criminal activity that have released thousands of offenders early that have weakened the ability of law enforcement to effectively fight crime and you know in san francisco for example there is been an increase in property crimes not of 6% not of 66% but of 66% and we have seen big increases in violent crime as well and so the answer in my opinion and a centerpiece of my campaign is let us put public safety first again when it comes to the way we approach fighting crime well the proponents of prop 57 for instance say that this would be a great thing because it gives something something for the prisoners someone who is convicted something to aim for you know they can get some time off if they take classes if they do not get into any altercations with guards are the prisoners so they do not get written up so this gives them some kind of goals and that helps towards their rehabilitation sure what do you what do you say to that to that argument well so this is a third provision now that you are that you are bringing up we have talked about two already one being the basically a limitation to a large degree of proportionate sentencing a second being the shift in basically charging discretion for juvenile from prosecutors to judges now you are alluding to a third provision of this initiative which would give the department of corrections an unlimited ability to award what they call good conduct credits so for the sort of things that you mentioned and under existing law we have these things in fact the usual scenario is someone only serves half their sentence and because of these sort of credits and there are good behavior credits that are in the system now within limits but this would basically give the department of corrections state bureaucrats the ability to let even violent offenders not just nonviolent offenders that the other provisions apply to but to let murderers rapists out of prison early based upon what they deemed to be good behavior okay well one thing that the the bill states that it would require that the secretary of corrections certify that the regulations implementing these policies protect and enhance public safety so that is kind of an interesting clause it is going to require the secretary of corrections to certify that this is going to protect and enhance public safety what are your thoughts on that well we should note that the name of prop 57 is the public safety and rehabilitation act so you know the proponent and prop 47 had a similarly or a well-earned name so i do not think we can take great confidence in this requirement that there is a stipulation that the early releases are the interests of public safety okay so let us look at a couple of other so okay so governor brown so far spent about five million dollars and he still has twenty million dollars in that fund so he is arguing that we have got to get these reforms done and i guess he is got a bankroll of or a purchase of twenty million dollars he spent about a quarter of that do you have any idea the the opponents what do they have in their work chance i do not know exactly what their fundraising is looking like now but i do know that there is a coalition of law enforcement officials that have lined up very emphatically behind the no campaign for this initiative district attorneys and sheriffs and judges and victims groups from across the state who do not want to see you know folks who rape an unconscious person for example let out a prison early i will give you one example of you know someone who will be eligible for early release under this initiative a gentleman named andrew stewart luster was arrested for rape in 2003 he fled to mexico he was eventually captured from to california he was convicted of twenty counts of drug induced rape and seventeen counts of raping an unconscious victim he was originally sentenced to 124 years in prison in 2013 and judge ordered him to prison for 50 years as an interesting side note when he started a skip bail it was dog the bounty hunter who brought him back but uh... in any case uh andrew stewart luster if prop fifty seven passes will be eligible for immediate release and their countless others like him who are just not the sort of offenders that uh... should be glad out of prison so i am looking at how many years he had fifty and then plus another hundred twenty two so fifty overall right now the zero overall serving yeah for seventeen counts of raping and unconscious okay so he is looking at fifty years and that could be kind of he could have clemency for that under this new prop fifty seven right because uh... you know if you are convicted of multiple counts remember you only have to serve the term for one of them and also for you are doing drive by shootings in your bad shot you get clemency for that as well right i mean uh... i do not know if it is quite fair to call it clemency but uh... you you are eligible to be released for parole okay i am after serving the primary term okay so um now let us talk a little bit about marcy's law three strikes in your out the uh... uh... so what would this have effects on the three strikes uh... uh... uh... uh... policy yes it would and uh... this is uh... the third way in which um... this uh... initiative would uh... compromise proportionate sentencing again the idea that the more serious the crime the more the more time you should get uh... the first remember was by uh... kind of discounting your other crimes right the second um... was by making the eligible for parole before enhancements the third is that it ignores uh... the uh... convictions that you have in your past so three strikes was passed for example to create this uh... escalating uh... punishments so you will be punished more severely for your second felony than you were for your first um... again this initiative would make you eligible for parole uh... after you have served the uh... term for your primary offense irrespective of whatever additional punishment would have been imposed by virtue of your earlier offenses okay how about gang related activity does this have much bearing on that yeah this is so gang related activity uh... if a crime is connected to a gang uh... that is an enhancement that can get you uh... additional time and uh... this is a big objection of law enforcement groups actually is that they rely on enhancements uh... like the gang related activity uh... to try to deter and break up gangs so that the proper for fifty send would lessen that enhancement or remove that enhancements you could uh... exactly okay all right so okay so uh... governor brown says that he regrets his support in nineteen seventy seven when he was governor last time um... for establishing a determined of sentencing sentencing laws in california now we um... he says these led to the sabbush of strict sentencing guidelines mandatory minimum sentences and hand sentences for certain crimes and so he is saying he regrets that um... and and so you are saying uh... that maybe this germicence is a good thing can you can you discuss that just real briefly what is your feelings on that yeah sure i mean uh... is our criminal justice system perfect uh... now of course not uh... i think that there is certainly room for thoughtful people to uh... have a serious discussion as to uh... where our sentencing law uh... does and does not make sense i do think that the reforms that we made uh... in the wilson administration for example to uh... increase the penalties for the most serious crimes has uh... serve the public well it led to a couple decades of decreased crime it uh... it improved public safety and now governor brown is rolling all of that back and uh... he is doing so or the uh... the proponents of prop fifty seven uh... as well as prop forty seven are doing so in a way that is not forthright with the public as to what the risks are when you call something the public safety and rehabilitation actor the safe schools act uh... but what it actually does is let thousands of dangerous offenders at a prison early um... that is not being forthright with the public about the risk if you say it only applies to nonviolent offenders but in fact you are letting out uh... folks committed of raping an unconscious person or assault with a deadly weapon or domestic violence involving trauma uh... that is not being forthright with the public so we can have those discussions and there are discussions that should be had by and uh... you know i will look forward to engaging with folks on the legislature as to how we can best protect public safety but the way to do it is not by misleading the public in the something that uh... you know that is good really having a detrimental effect on people's lives well i think one of the selling points of this bill and i and i actually would support these particular ones where that you know if they can have more incentives more incentives for it for it inmates to be good behind bars yeah uh... but maybe so that part of this bill i think is what is kind of pushing it through and some of these technicalities are not are not as well understood sure sure so i think that uh... you know people should link very carefully at this and do some studying before november eight and then also i wish you the best on november eight and i am really happy to come here tonight rod the the and the the music