congressional district 3 now. this is a new district with a wide open seat. you can see it spans from sierra to inyo county and includes large areas of placer county. and looking at the numbers right now for district 3, we have republican kevin kylie versus democrat kermit jones. and there you see the democrat kermit jones has 51% of the vote. abc10's van 2 is live tonight in placer county and van you are talking to kermit jones and kevin kylie. definitely and those were earlier results but i want to show you what is live happening right now. ballots are still coming in today. ballots cast today are still coming in. making their way here to the placer county election office in auburn. you can see workers unloading these trucks coming from all over placer county. some coming even as far as tahoe city over this year in very dicey condition. so thank you to pull workers sue daniels to who sent us a photo showing the dedication to pull this off in the winter storm. so election officials tell us that cald trans and the sheriff's office, even helping escort and plowing the way to ensure these ballots arrive safely to be counted. these remaining ballots, republican congressional district 3 candidate, kevin kylie, is hoping will turn the tides in his favor. you know i am feeling pretty good. it is still very early. so we got to wait for the votes to come in. but you know i feel like we gave the campaign everything we could. we got a great response for voters. and i think our message resonated. the folks are looking for change early return. show first time candidate veteran doctor kermit jones with a favorable need. this may turn out to be the surprise of the night. his supporters say they do not believe it is a long shot to send a democrat to the house of representatives for this region that has historically leaned republican. a large chunk of jones's watch party included dozens of interns who campaigned for him. although they themselves are too young to vote. there are so many things post trump era who just cannot ignore. especially as the youth were going to be experiencing all these legislative changes in the next few years. and we are going to be the ones reaping the rewards or not the rewards. still a tight race. kylie's supporters say they like what he has done as an assemblyman. he is been a consistent critic of governor newsom. basically, there is a lot of people who stand for american values. and i think kylie does. in the end, no matter who wins, district 3 will have a new representative in the house. i look at this as an opportunity for them to get real representation and get someone who knows what it is like to fight for people just like i did in the military. that is exactly what i want to do in congress. and that is what i have been so honored to have such a big team to do. and of course, it will not be decided until every single vote is counted in counties in california have until december 8th to certify their votes. so again, we are here in auburn at the plaster county election office, where ballots custody are still coming in by the truckloads and as far as tahoe city. so it will be quite the long night. and of course, a long process to count all of these ballots. a busy night ahead. of course, it is a race van that is getting national attention. after kevin kylie was endorsed by former president donald trump still very early. but democrat kermit jones is ahead, as we speak, van, reporting live for us tonight in plaster county. we thank you.