[congressional record volume 167, number 157 (monday, september 13, 2021)] [senate] [pages s6450-s6451] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] unanimous consent request--executive calendar mr. menendez. madam president, i ask unanimous consent that the senate proceed to the consideration of calendar no. 323, marcela escobari to be assistant administrator of the united states agency for international development, and that the senate vote on the nomination without any intervening action or debate. the presiding officer. is there objection? the senator from texas. mr. cruz. madam president, reserving the right to be object, as i described minutes ago, the biden administration is in outright defiance of federal law. an overwhelming bipartisan majority of the senate and the house have passed tough sanctions on russia--sanctions that work; sanctions that shut down the nord stream 2 pipeline for a year. but when president biden came into office, he chose to override federal law and instead to give a multibillion-dollar gift to vladimir putin in russia. that decision is a generational geopolitical mistake. it harms u.s. national security interests, it benefits russia, and it hurts europe. moreover, my hold on these nominations, i have expressed to the administration in writing and orally over a month ago. they have a path to lifting the hold on the treasury department nominees and the career state department nominees simply by either enforcing sanctions under caatsa on russia or overriding those sanctions and triggering a vote in this body where members of this body can register our views on whether joe biden is correct in giving this multibillion-dollar gift to vladimir putin that undermines our national security. accordingly, i object. the presiding officer. objection is heard. the senator from new jersey. mr. menendez. madam president, it is unfortunate that this last nominee is objected to. this particular position--we are talking about haiti. we are talking about having an assistant administrator that can help us restore the tragic situation in haiti to a place in which people can live and will not seek migration to the united states. when we are talking about what is happening in the western hemisphere, in venezuela, where there is a huge humanitarian set of refugees leaving; when we talk about what is happening [[page s6451]] in cuba with reference to the movements for democracy, this particular position would be dealing with all of that. i must say, i know that my colleague wants to say none of this would have changed anything. that is not the case. i am not saying that the ultimate result in afghanistan would have changed, but certainly, when we do not have people in key positions advocating for u.s. national security and policy, it exacerbates the set of circumstances because we do not have the wherewithal to do what is necessary. there are many other key positions i will be coming to the senate floor and highlighting how that has a risk to national security. finally, i would just simply say caatsa was violated by president trump when he exercised no sanctions on the same issue that my colleague is concerned about. i happen to agree with him on the issue; i disagree with him in the process in which he is pursuing it. but that started with president trump. by the way, president trump started with a surrender agreement to the taliban. he gave them everything, got nothing in return. he let them have 5,000 prisoners, taliban prisoners, who were returned to the taliban--that added to the fighting force--and got none of the commitments that were necessary to deal with a negotiation or a peace deal with the afghan government. he got nothing at all except a total surrender and then dramatically reduced the troop levels at that time. so there is a lot to talk about about afghanistan, not only in the immediate context but over what has happened over the last 20 years. the senate foreign relations committee intends to do that extensive review through a series of hearings. let us put history exactly where it belongs--in the right context. i yield the floor. ____________________