[congressional record volume 171, number 159 (monday, september 29, 2025)] [senate] [page s6814] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] unanimous consent request--s. 2851 however, mr. president, in understanding that my colleague has made his arguments in believing that my legislation goes too far, i also have a narrower piece of legislation tailored specifically to three groups of people who face elevated risks of violence, doxing, and stalking that is similar to members of congress and our staffs. this bill is also modeled on the bipartisan commerce committee bill and protects members of congress and staff. additionally, it protects state and local officials, including state judges who were left out of an earlier judicial privacy bill. the threat to state and local officials has not gone away. earlier this month, a gunman fired a bullet directly into the home of a state senator in illinois. this legislation also protects survivors of sexual assault and domestic violence who deserve the strongest possible safeguards against being stalked or harmed. even if a member objects to protecting all americans, surely, the people doing our jobs in state capitals across the country and those who have suffered assault and violence deserve the same protection as the presiding officer and i. therefore, as in legislative session and notwithstanding rule xxii, i ask unanimous consent that the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs be discharged from further consideration of s. 2851 and the senate proceed to its immediate consideration; that the bill be considered read a third time and passed; and that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no intervening action or debate. the presiding officer. is there objection? the senator from texas. mr. cruz. reserving the right to object, for the same reasons i articulated a minute ago. i am quite sympathetic to the concerns raised by the senator from oregon. he is right. there are threats against state and local officials. those threats are serious, and they deserve to be dealt with seriously. in my view, violence is never acceptable, and that is whether i agree with you politically or i disagree with you politically. we should debate civilly, with respect, with decency, and violence should never be the answer. so just as i did with his previous amendment, i extend my offer in the hearing we convene to consider the issue of state and local officials to consider how best to expand the protection. i am interested in expanding the protection to as wide a universe as is feasible, as is practicable, but that answer is not yet worked out. state and local officials is a universe that comprises tens of thousands, if not more people than that. we should have hearings and consider the effect before passing legislation that, if the bill got expanded, would engender an objection to this bill and kill the entire bill altogether. because i do not want this body to do nothing and to fail to take a reasonable, commonsense step to protect the security of members of congress and their staffs and because i very much want to pass senator klobuchar's legislation--which i might note, senator klobuchar is a democrat; i am a republican. this is bipartisan legislation. because this amendment at that time, i believe, would imperil the senate doing anything right now, i object. the presiding officer. the objection is heard. the senator from oregon. mr. wyden. mr. president, i want to tell my colleague from texas i look forward to the hearings on legislation that would ensure that all americans have these protections because, as you and i have talked about, i think it is critically important there not be a double standard in america. i thank my colleague for the offer of the hearings. i yield the floor. the presiding officer. the senator from michigan.