[congressional record volume 171, number 159 (monday, september 29, 2025)] [senate] [pages s6813-s6814] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] unanimous consent request--s. 2850 mr. wyden. mr. president, in the wake of the violent and senseless murders of multiple lawmakers and political advocates, i rise to seek passage of legislation that will provide a real measure of protection to all americans for their privacy and security. before i do, i also want to point out that i am just back from the so-called ``war-ravaged hellhole'' of portland, or--my hometown--and somehow i made it out unscathed. i will have more to say, but i want to make clear that my hometown of portland is safe; it is vibrant; and portlanders do not want federal troops and do not need federal troops. now, with respect to privacy, as it stands today, data brokers have amassed vast amounts of americans' personal information, which they are willing to sell to anyone with a credit card. would-be murderers can often find the home addresses and other personal information about their targets within a few search results on google. indeed, the assassin who murdered minnesota state representative melissa hortman and shot state senator john hoffman repeatedly used ``people search'' websites run by data brokers to learn the home addresses of the victims. i also recognize that members of congress receive untold numbers of violent and harassing threats as a result of our jobs, and i want to credit the bipartisan effort in the senate commerce committee to provide privacy protections for members of congress. i do not intend to stand in the way of their legislation. the bill i offer today takes the privacy protections against data brokers in the commerce committee's bill and extends them to all americans. protecting everyone is the most effective way to protect u.s. military and intelligence personnel, including undercover officers. there have been numerous press reports over the past few years revealing how data brokers are selling sensitive location data collected from u.s. personnel who are working at military bases and other sensitive facilities and that they are willing to actually sell this data to foreign buyers. members of congress should not receive special treatment. our constituents deserve protection from violence, stalking, and other criminal threats. for that reason, mr. president, as in legislative session and notwithstanding rule xxii, i ask unanimous consent that the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs be discharged from further consideration of s. 2850; that the senate proceed to its immediate consideration; that the bill be considered read a third time and passed; and that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no intervening action or debate. the presiding officer. is there objection? the senator from texas. mr. cruz. mr. president, in reserving the right to object, i thank my friend the senator from oregon for his passion for privacy. he has had a passion for protecting privacy his entire tenure in the senate, as have i, and his passion is genuine. i believe we have an obligation, a bipartisan obligation, to do more to protect the privacy of americans, especially kids, but to protect the privacy of americans across the board. we also are well aware we live in a time in which violence is on the rise. there is enormous division. there is [[page s6814]] enormous anger and hatred. the entire world was shocked just a couple of weeks ago at the assassination of charlie kirk by a deranged gunman who inscribed his political agenda on the shell casings as he murdered a husband and a father of two. just last week, i was in dallas where another deranged gunman opened fire at an ice facility, killing two. again, that deranged gunman inscribed his political agenda on the shell casings. i wish we did not face this partisan anger. i wish we did not face these threats of violence. a previous congress passed legislation protecting the personal information of federal judges because, sadly, too many federal judges and their families have been targeted for violence. that legislation was bipartisan; it passed into law; and it has had some modicum of success in protecting federal judges and their families. in this instance, senator klobuchar, a democrat, and myself have teamed up together to extend the same protections of privacy that federal judges have to members of congress and to their staffs. we are all blessed to represent our states, and yet we know that there are threats of violence that come with this job. collectively, the 100 of us in this chamber have faced thousands and thousands of death threats and threats of violence. our staffs have been victims of violence over and over again, and so this legislation is bipartisan legislation to enhance the safety and security of members of congress and their staffs. senator wyden has now suggested broadening that to all americans. i admire that sentiment and agree with that sentiment. there are challenges, however, with the language he has drafted. the language he has drafted, as presently written, could, among other things, prevent law enforcement and parents from knowing where convicted sexual predators are living. it could have the effect of gutting megan's laws that have been adopted all across this country. so what i have offered to senator wyden is to work with him in good faith. i chair the commerce committee. i have already offered to convene a hearing to examine how we can expand privacy protections more broadly but do so in a way that does not disrupt law enforcement; that does not disrupt legitimate interests, such as knowing where sexual predators are living and making sure they are not living near young children, near daycares, near schools. because the legislation submitted by the senator from oregon has not yet worked through those issues, i reiterate my offer to work in a bipartisan manner to find an expansion of the legislation that is under consideration that would work effectively, but in the meantime, i object. the presiding officer. the objection is heard. the senator from oregon. mr. wyden. mr. president, the senator from texas has offered to do a hearing on my proposal, and i do appreciate that. i simply believe it is unfortunate when the senate will pass privacy protections for ourselves but not for all americans and that only shady data brokers, would-be murderers and stalkers, as well as foreign adversaries buying data on u.s. government officials, are actually going to benefit from blocking this bill.