[congressional record volume 163, number 131 (wednesday, august 2, 2017)] [senate] [pages s4709-s4711] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] great lakes environmental sensitivity index bill mr. peters. mr. president, as we head into the month of august, many americans are planning to spend time along our beautiful coasts. our country is fortunate to have such a wide variety of natural resources along the gulf of mexico, alaska, hawaii, and the east and west coasts. however, i am partial to america's best coast: the 4,500 miles of u.s. coastline along the great lakes. our coastal resources make it possible to move cargo and goods around the world. they provide opportunities for outdoor recreation like fishing and boating and trips to the beach. our coasts are not only beautiful, providing some of the most scenic vistas and picturesque landscapes our country has to offer; these ecosystems also provide many tangible benefits. they serve as flooding buffers, critical habitats for fish and wildlife, and locations for ports and other marine infrastructure. in the great lakes, our freshwater coastline contains one-fifth of the entire world's fresh water and provides drinking water for over 40 million people. we must be stewards of these areas [[page s4710]] so that future generations can also benefit from them. in order to do so, we must properly document and keep track of this precious resource. that is why i partnered with senator young to introduce the bipartisan great lakes environmental sensitivity index act of 2017 to require noaa to update environmental sensitivity index maps and map products. the bill passed unanimously out of the commerce committee this morning by a voice vote and now heads to the full senate floor for consideration. environmental sensitive index--or esi--maps provide an inventory of our valuable natural and human-use resources along our coasts. these maps chronicle sensitive ecosystems and the presence of various species as they migrate through regions and habitats for threatened and endangered species. they also document where we can access coastal resources from beaches and parks to docks, ferries, and boat ramps. we must maintain an up-to-date inventory of these precious coastal resources so that we know exactly where we need to focus our response efforts in a worst-case scenario of a harmful oil or chemical spill. accurate documentation of these resources and their vulnerabilities is critical to both deploying the right response effort when a spill or accident occurs and assessing the damage and restoration efforts needed after the fact. in places like the straits of mackinac, where a 64-year-old oil pipeline sits at the bottom of the lake bed, it should be our top priority to have a current inventory of what shoreline resources could be impacted by a pipeline leak. models have shown that a pipeline spill in the straits of mackinac could likely result in oil reaching the shores of mackinac island within hours, which would be an absolute catastrophe for michigan's top tourist attraction. esi maps do not just help with oilspill response; they can also be used for coastal development activities, and they even have significant research applications. they provide a clear reference point prior to natural disasters or major storms that may damage, destroy, or significantly alter resources along our coasts. decision makers at the local and state level may use them for restoration efforts or to make informed decisions about how to balance all of the various uses in that coastal zone. esi maps need regular updates in order for them to be truly effective. these updates are happening now for other areas of the country. stretches of the west coast, along the gulf of mexico, and along the east coast have all received updates over the last 5 years. one region is continually absent from these updates: my home region of the great lakes. in fact, the most recent updates for some of the great lakes were completed over 20 years ago, but lake erie and parts of lake michigan have not been updated for over 30 years. this bill gives the proper direction and resources to make sure these long overdue updates move forward. supporters of the bill so far include the great lakes charter boat association, the coastal states organization, the great lakes commission, the alliance for the great lakes, the national wildlife federation, the great lakes fishery commission, and the group for love of water. with nearly 3,300 miles of coastline in michigan, the second- most coastline of any state in the nation, we need to update great lakes environmental sensitivity index products as soon as we can. modernizing these maps will provide a better picture of what resources could be at risk in the event of a disaster and will be an important tool to help us keep our great lakes safe and clean for future generations. i look forward to working with senator young and the rest of my colleagues in the senate to move this bill forward and make sure that we have the tools we need to make the best decisions for the great lakes, no matter the challenges and opportunities facing us. thank you. mr. alexander. mr. president, today the senate will vote on the confirmation of marvin kaplan to be a member of the national labor relations board, nlrb. i am glad that we are moving this nomination because the national labor relations board needs to function as intended. the board has not been full in nearly 2 years. i am certainly not the only one of us who thinks a full board is important. one democratic senator said at a hearing on may 16, 2013: ``i strongly support a fully functioning nlrb with five members. i think confirming the entire slate will ensure that the nlrb is working for american workers and american employers.'' another said at the same hearing: ``what we do not need now--the last thing we need here in washington or across the country--is more rancor, more division, more ideology, at a time we need this board fully functioning. we need five people to get confirmed here. any senator who is standing in the way of getting five people confirmed and having a functioning board has a lot of explaining to do . . .'' then-chairman harkin said in september 2014: ``keeping the nlrb fully staffed and able to do its work will send a strong message to the american people that yes, washington can work, and our government can function.'' the national labor relations board has five members with 5-year, staggered terms, and a general counsel with a 4-year term. there is no statutory requirement regarding party affiliation, but the tradition has been for the president to appoint members on a 3-2 ratio favoring the administration, with nominations for the two minority seats recommended by the senate minority leader. while we may often disagree with the opinions of the nominees for the other party's seats--many of us have ensured they had an up or down vote. for example, since 2013, i have voted for cloture for two board members and the current general counsel who i then voted against confirming. marvin kaplan has been nominated for a position that has sat vacant for 23 months since president obama declined to nominate a republican for the then-minority seat. my hope is that this nominee will help restore some balance to the labor board. after years of playing the role of advocate, the board should be restored to the role of neutral umpire. board partisanship did not start under president obama, but it became worse under him. when the board is too partisan, it creates instability in our nation's workplaces and does not serve the intent of the law--which is stable labor relations and free flow of commerce. for example, under president obama, the board took three harmful actions, including the joint employer decision--which threatened to destroy the american dream for owners of the nation's 780,000 franchise locations; the ambush elections rule, which can force a union election before an employer and many employees have a chance to figure out what is going on; and the micro-union decision, which gave factions of employees within single stores a path to forming their own unions. nominee marvin kaplan is currently chief counsel for the occupational safety and health review commission, where he has served since august 2015. from 2009 to 2015, kaplan worked as counsel for the house education and workforce committee and the house oversight and government reform committee. today some senators have argued about mr. kaplan's experience practicing law. i want to note that mr. kaplan is in fact well- qualified under the national labor relations act statute. he is an experienced lawyer. he earned his law degree at washington university in st. louis and is a member of the new york and new jersey state bars. the years he has spent considering cases and writing opinions at the occupational safety and health review commission, oshrc, are an excellent preparation for the work of the national labor relations board, nlrb. i will also point out that there have been a number of nlrb members confirmed with limited experience representing clients in labor law matters. mr. kaplan has an admirable record of public service spanning a decade. he could have taken a number of different career paths, but he chose public service, and that should be praised. there is bipartisan respect for mr. kaplan. at a july 2015 business meeting of the house education and the workforce committee, ranking member bobby scott said this of mr. kaplan: ``a lot is said about the working relationships around here and how bad [[page s4711]] they are from time to time. staff can contribute to that. i just would like to say that mr. kaplan has not been part of that; he is been very cooperative even when you disagree. we have been able to work with my staff, have had good working relationships; a cooperative relationships. i want to add my two cents worth to your congratulations and god speed.'' mr. kaplan was nominated to be a member of the nlrb on june 20, 2017. we held his hearing on july 13, and he completed all paperwork in accordance with the help committee's rules, practices, and procedures. our rules require that their help paperwork be submitted 5 days before their hearing. we received mr. kaplan's help paperwork and his office of government ethics, oge, paperwork on june 26, 17 days before his hearing. mr. kaplan also offered to meet with all help members. mr. kaplan met with 10 of them, including 5 democrats. following the hearing, mr. kaplan responded to 53 questions for the record, qfrs, or 81 if you include subquestions, and those responses were provided to senators prior to the markup. the help committee favorably reported out his nomination on july 19. recent comparisons show that this process was far from rushed. in comparison, under chairman harkin, the help committee held hearings and markups on nlrb nominees with far less time for consideration. for former board member kent hirozawa's seat, which mr. william emanuel has been nominated to fill, mr. hirozawa's hearing was held 7 days after his nomination, and his markup was held the next day. former board member nancy schiffer's hearing was held 7 days after her nomination. the help committee also held a markup on her nomination the next day. committee members were not able to get responses to any qfrs from kent hirowzawa or nancy schiffer before being forced to vote on them. i look forward to voting for this nominee. i hope the senate will take up the nomination of william emanuel, also for the nlrb, very soon, so we have a full board. mr. peters. i suggest the absence of a quorum. the presiding officer. the clerk will call the roll. the assistant bill clerk proceeded to call the roll. mr. cruz. mr. president, i ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered.