[congressional record volume 167, number 157 (monday, september 13, 2021)] [senate] [pages s6449-s6450] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] executive calendar mr. menendez. madam president, pursuant to the comments i was just making a few minutes ago, let me move directly to my request. i ask unanimous consent that the senate proceed to the consideration of calendar no. 335, donald lu to be assistant secretary of state for south asian affairs, and that the senate vote on the nomination without intervening action or debate. the presiding officer. is there objection? mr. cruz. madam president. the presiding officer. the senator from texas. mr. cruz. madam president, reserving the right to object, i want to make a few remarks on senator menendez's request for unanimous consent on the nomination of donald lu to be assistant secretary of state for the bureau of south and central asian affairs and also on the nomination of brett holmgren to be the assistant secretary of state for intelligence and research. the reality is that had these nominees been confirmed in august, they would have done nothing to stop the administration's disastrous withdrawal from afghanistan. president biden bears responsibility for the catastrophe that has unfolded in afghanistan. president biden repeatedly ignored reasonable advice and the intelligence on what was happening on the ground in the runup to the disastrous withdrawal. he abandoned the bagram airfield well before august, setting the stage for the chaos at the kabul airport. he was not even listening to his staff on what needed to be done on afghanistan. instead, he imposed an arbitrary deadline for political purposes, with disastrous results. i am not going to object to consent on this individual, mr. lu, and on mr. holmgren, in a moment, that senator menendez will ask for, but let us be clear. the administration has tried to play a blame game to deflect blame for their absolute failure to conduct a reasonable and rational drawdown, to deflect blame for president biden's decision to abandon bagram to the taliban, to deflect blame for president biden's indefensible decision to give the taliban a list of names of americans and afghans who are now very much in harm's way and in jeopardy because of the foolishness and the manifest incompetence of this administration. none of the nominees i have holds on would have made one difference in what happened in afghanistan. and it is difficult to believe that even my democratic colleagues believe, political talking points notwithstanding, how, for instance, the assistant secretary for educational and cultural affairs could have stopped president biden from gift-wrapping bagram airfield and giving it to the taliban. it is also important to provide a little bit of background on why these holds are in place in the first place. president biden is not following the law. he is refusing to follow the law which mandates the imposition of sanctions on nord stream 2. those sanctions had succeeded, had halted nord stream 2 in its place, and president biden transformed an incredible foreign policy victory into an incredible foreign policy defeat. when president biden came into office, he willfully and brazenly disregarded the law, and he allowed nord stream 2 to continue on its road to completion, which was, in effect, a multibillion-dollar gift to vladimir putin at the expense of europe's security and at the expense of american national security. however, there is still time to stop nord stream 2 if we act quickly. a pipeline that is not 100 percent complete is effectively zero percent complete. and i am not going to stop working to halt nord stream 2 to stop russia and to prevent vladimir putin from economically blackmailing our european allies and threatening american jobs. these consents--and, more broadly, what the administration is engaged in--is a blame game trying to distract blame from their own actions. but it is worth noting that i have offered to lift my holds from the beginning. and, indeed, over a month ago, i extended the offer to treasury secretary yellen, to the national security advisor in the white house, and to senator menendez that i would lift these holds-- lift the holds on treasury nominees and lift the holds on state department career nominees if the administration either imposed sanctions under caatsa, the countering american adversaries through sanctions act, or if they waived those sanctions in such a way that it would trigger congress having an override vote. on august 5, i extended that offer directly to secretary yellen. unfortunately, the administration has not acted on it. they have decided that their policy of gift-wrapping a multibillion-dollar pipeline for vladimir putin and russia was so important that they wanted to deny congress even a vote on it under caatsa. caatsa was passed for precisely these circumstances--for an administration that refused to follow u.s. law [[page s6450]] and refused to comply with tough sanctions on russia. that is what the advocates of caatsa argued. this is a mechanism to force an administration to obey u.s. law and stand up to russia. now, at the time, the democrats believed they were speaking about the trump administration, but the principles behind caatsa apply equally to joe biden's defying the law and giving this gift to vladimir putin at the expense of u.s. national security interests. this administration has had a path for months to clear these nominees. it has declined to exercise that path. that path remains before it, nonetheless, because this nominee and the next one are directly relevant to cleaning up the mess that the biden administration has made in afghanistan. i do not object. the presiding officer. is there objection? without objection, it is so ordered. the clerk will report the nomination. the legislative clerk read the nomination of donald lu, of california, a career member of the senior foreign service, class of minister-counselor, to be assistant secretary of state for south asian affairs. thereupon, the senate proceeded to consider the nomination. the presiding officer. the question is, will the senate advise and consent to the lu nomination? the nomination was confirmed. the presiding officer. the senator from new jersey. mr. menendez. madam president, i ask unanimous consent that the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table, all without any intervening action or debate; that no further motions be in order to the nomination; that any statements related to the nomination be printed in the record; and that the president be immediately notified of the senate's action. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered. the senator from new jersey. mr. menendez. madam president, i clearly do not share the views of my colleague from texas, but for the sake of the senate's work, i will reserve responding to it for another time. ____________________