[congressional record volume 164, number 191 (tuesday, december 4, 2018)] [senate] [pages s7259-s7265] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] remembering george h.w. bush mr. portman. mr. president, today i want to talk about the loss of a great american. i want to talk about george h.w. bush. on c-span, i was watching the coverage of what is going on in the rotunda now, and there are hundreds of people crowded around his casket, paying tribute to this great man. they have been there all day. they will be there all night. friends of mine from ohio are in town who never met him but knew of him and were inspired by him. we were all inspired by him. george bush did it all. he was a war hero--youngest naval pilot at age 18, shot down over the pacific. he was the last president, by the way, to serve in combat. he was also a member of the u.s. congress and proud of that. prior to that, he was a successful business leader in texas. he was an ambassador to the united nations. he was cia director. he was envoy to china--the first one. he was vice president of the united states, and he was president, of course, during one of the most momentous times in our nation's history. what a life. in his absence, our country is losing a lifelong patriot, a guiding voice, and the embodiment of the very best of america. for me, president bush was also my mentor. i was very blessed early in my career to have been able to work for him. he brought me into his white house when i was a young man trying to figure out my way in life. i would not be in this crazy business of politics but for him--not just because he gave me opportunities to work for him but because he showed me you could do this work of public service and politics with honor and dignity and respect. he showed that nice guys can finish first. he showed that his approach--kinder and gentler, as he would call it in 1988--was something that indeed you could achieve here, even in the halls of congress. i have a special reason to be so grateful; also, so sad about his departure because i relied on him for advice and counsel. he rarely gave it proactively, but when asked, he always had the wisdom of years and the judgment that so many of us will miss so badly. he took a chance on me as a young lawyer from cincinnati, oh, to come into his white house as his associate counsel to the president. he then took a chance on me to join his legislative affairs team, to be director of the white house office of legislative affairs. to be frank, i was not particularly qualified for either job. i had only worked on the hill briefly as an intern. i was not nearly as distinguished as the other members of the legal team who had been mostly supreme court clerks, but it made me work all the harder to try to earn his trust and his respect. [[page s7260]] he did not just give me a job. he taught me about being a leader, a public servant, being a better husband and father. he showed me what servant leadership meant, what it looked like in practice, and i try to work every day to live up to that example. he was one of the most decent and honorable people i have ever met--in politics or otherwise. he saw himself as a servant. that is what motivated him. he saw himself as a public servant when he signed up to become a young navy pilot, flying dangerous bombing missions. that sense of service, duty, and patriotism was why, years later, after a successful business career, he decided to put it on the line, run for the u.s. congress. by the way, i have noticed this week there has been a lot of discussion about all of his successes, and there are so many. one thing people might forget is that he was also resilient. he had setbacks in his life--certainly the death of his beloved daughter robin at a young age of 3--but he ran for the senate twice in the state of texas and lost. he did not give up. he bounced back. he was resilient. he was tough. when he was asked to serve as u.n. ambassador, he took up that task because of his devotion to service. when he was asked to chair the republican national committee--during a particularly tough time for the republican party, not a task most people wanted to take--he took it on. when he was asked to become the first envoy to china--again, a big challenge--he knew it was the right thing to do for the country. of course, at the cia, he stepped into a difficult situation. the morale was low, and he turned things around. when he was appointed as cia director in 1976, there had been a lot of hearings on capitol hill. they were called the church hearings, named after senator church, and the cia was under fire, big time. morale was low. it was a difficult period. he stepped in precisely because of that. during his tenure at the central intelligence agency, he made the cia stronger. he built a special bond with the employees. he put some reforms in place that were important. he was widely credited by everyone as having restored a sense of pride in that important agency. i heard that repeatedly. when i got elected to congress in 1994, by the way, with the help of president george h.w. bush and barbara bush, both of whom came to speak and helped out on the campaign by lending their good names. barbara bush even did a radio ad for me that i think is probably the reason i won. she was probably the most popular person in america at the time. when i got elected, i looked at the cia complex in northern virginia-- then called langley, still in langley, va. it was not named after anyone. i heard so much from people at the agency about their respect for him--career people, people who worked there for years. i proposed the idea of naming the cia after him and proposed legislation to do that in 1999. today, that headquarters has been renamed under that legislation the george bush center for intelligence. i remember being at the ceremony with him when the name was changed and just the love and respect he had from the people at that agency. i remember him telling stories, including stories about why he took the job and how much he respected the people there and the work they did and how, in many respects, they were on the frontlines for all of us. i remember stories being told about him, including one i will never forget, which is that directors for years had gone into the cia and then taken their own private elevator up to their office, which makes sense. it is a big job. george bush would not take that private elevator. he insisted on going on the employee elevator every morning. why? as he said to me later: because i wanted to hear what was going on, hear from the employees, hear from the officers. i think it was more than that. i think it was because he wanted them to know he was part of the team. that was his approach to everything he did--vintage george bush. he did it with grace and dignity, bringing people together, working in a bipartisan manner, and stood for what he thought was right but understood that other people had different points of view and respected that. he carved out an interesting role as vice president of the united states--unprecedented in terms of his ability to work with the president, work with the cabinet, work with foreign leaders. ronald reagan was there, of course, during the time of intense international politics when the cold war was coming to an end. as president bush said during president reagan's funeral, he learned more from ronald reagan than anyone he encountered in all of his years of public service--but he also served ronald reagan well. as president then, george bush was responsible for taking the end of the cold war and being sure it worked well, not just for us but for so many millions of people around the world. he led our country through some great change there, not just the end of the cold war but the berlin wall came down. i was working for him at the time, and i remember the excitement about it and the sense that he should give a boastful speech and talk about how america had finally prevailed. he was hesitant to do that. he did not want to spike the football in the end zone. instead, what he wanted to do was ensure that transition was handled properly. the reunification of germany was a very controversial issue. he knew, ultimately, it would be in the interest of the world to reunify east and west germany, but he did it carefully, diplomatically, with respect. he knew mikhail gorbachev was in a tough position, so he handled the fall of the wall and, more importantly, the transition in eastern europe and central europe, again, with diplomacy and with respect for gorbachev and the people--the millions of people who were affected. of all the major events in which he played a role as commander in chief, i think that, in some respects, was the most important one. if you go to eastern europe or western europe today or central europe, all of them have a positive view of george bush in the role he played and america played during that time period. maybe the most well-known role he played as commander in chief was desert storm. there, he showcased his abilities not just as a president but as a president who had served in combat himself. he understood the need to bring people together--in this case, other countries--to ensure a successful result. think about this. over 40 countries were involved in desert storm--and hundreds of thousands of troops--all to stop the aggression of saddam hussein in the middle east. he knew saddam hussein had to be stopped. it was within his moral fiber that he could not sit back and watch one country move into a smaller country and take over-- in this case, the country of kuwait. so he knew there had to be a decision by america to lead this incredible coalition of countries all around the middle east and the world. he also knew that he had to get the american people behind him. i remember that at that point i was director of the white house office of legislative affairs. our job was to ensure that we could support the president up here on the hill, and a lot of people were giving the president advice not to seek approval from congress for that conflict. the fear was that congress would say no. there was a lot of pushback, and the consensus was that it had to be done. but george bush believed it was important to involve congress for two reasons. one, he believed in the institutions of our democracy. he believed congress played an important role. second, and maybe even more important to him as a world war ii vet, he wanted to get the american people behind this. he did not want to repeat what he viewed as some of the mistakes in previous conflicts--vietnam, in particular--when the american people were not with our troops. so he wanted to go to congress to seek approval, and it was a fight. i was up here on this very floor of the senate, trying to persuade people to do the right thing, to ensure that saddam hussein could be removed from kuwait so people could have a chance in that country to find their own destiny. that vote was won by three votes--three votes. if three members of the senate had voted the other way, we would not have received that approval. it was close, but as i look back on it, i must say that george h.w. bush did the right thing. of course, we won the vote, [[page s7261]] which makes that comment easier, but the point is that he insisted that we get the american people behind that conflict, and it ended up being not just a relatively popular military fight, which was successful, but one that the american people understood because of the debate that happened here on the floor of the congress, in the house and senate, of what the stakes were. he never chose to do things just because they were easy. the easy thing would have been to go ahead without seeking approval from congress. he made his decisions on what he thought was the right thing to do, and that was the kind of man he was. there has been a lot of talk this week about his ``thousand points of light'' proposal. the points of light foundation continues today doing incredibly good work all around the country with people volunteering to help other citizens. he believed everybody had a responsibility and an opportunity to be a part of the change that moves our country forward to a better and brighter future, and that is what points of light is about. it resonated with so many americans and continues to spur action and encourage cooperation where people give up their time and service. i do think it is just as important to have some bright guiding lights as it is to have the ``thousand points of light,'' and that is what he provided. he was the guiding light as an example for all the rest of us. throughout his incredible life he did not just tell us what it meant to lead, to serve others, or to be guided by what was right. in fact, that was not his style. he was not the lecturer. he did not consider himself a great philosopher. he led by example. he showed us. again, i will be forever grateful for that. he was also a person who put a lot of value on people and on relationships. he believed quite simply that building and strengthening relationships was incredibly important to building trust, which meant that people could come together to solve problems and which meant that you could achieve consensus, more importantly. he put that to work in the congress. being a liaison to congress was relatively easy because he had so many friends. even though he had only been here for a couple terms, he had so many friends--republicans and democrats. relationship building was important to him. it was also important for him to deepen the ties among nations to create a stronger, safer, and more prosperous world--whether it was mikhail gorbachev, whom i talked about earlier, who was his friend to the end, or whether it was brian mulroney, from canada. i know that tomorrow there will be a number of heads of state who will be here for the funeral. this helped us as a country by having those relationships and building those relationships of trust to be able to build a safer and less volatile world. he is known for writing these handwritten notes, and a lot of attention has been paid recently to the class and humility he displayed with the note he left for incoming president bill clinton on the day he assumed office, where he wished him well, but it goes beyond that. he was personable and respected everywhere. a lot of his friends were democrats. one example i thought was striking was a congressman from ohio. i am from ohio, and i knew of this congressman, who was a liberal guy. he was a democrat named lud ashley, from toledo. his relationship with lud ashley transcended politics. they were good friends. i am told that just before his term as president ended, he and barbara bush invited two couples to the white house--lud ashley, the democrat from toledo, and his wife were at that dinner. it is just another example of george bush's reaching out, being a people person first. that aspect earned him a lot of goodwill on capitol hill, across both parties. i have been in the habit since the 1990s of going up to maine, to kennebunkport, in the summer to visit president bush, sometimes with members of my family, sometimes alone, or sometimes with friends. it is always a great visit. it is always an opportunity to talk about people--again, focusing on people. his questions to me were sometimes about policy and what was going on, but often it was about this: what do you think of that senator or that u.s. representative? what is he like? what is she like? tell me about them. until the end he was curious. i was with him in september of this year for our last visit, and although he was not speaking as much, he was as curious as ever and asking questions and, of course, willing to give me a little advice, all of which i treasure. a few years ago, back in 2015, you may remember that president bush had a health scare. he had fallen and broken a bone in his neck, and he was in tough shape. i was up there for a visit. i had made plans to visit him before his injury occurred, but once it happened i thought i had better do something different, a little special. so i got a baseball, and i wrote: george h.w. bush, america's first baseman. i asked if a couple of my colleagues would be willing to sign it. folks, when people found out this baseball was going to george h.w. bush, everybody wanted to sign it. i got a get-well card about this big--the biggest one i could find-- and asked a couple colleagues who would be willing to sign it. folks, everybody wanted to sign it. by the end of the process we had about 95 signatures on that baseball and on that get-well card. why? because everybody wanted to be a part of sending this message to the beloved former president. he loved it, when i handed him the baseball, and, of course, he was very curious to see who had signed it. one of his questions to me, which was typical george bush, was this: did so-and-so sign it? the names he recited were some of the more partisan democrats on the floor. one, as i recall, was whether harry reid had signed it, and, sure enough, he had, proudly. that made george bush so happy. his eyes shown, and he smiled. he knew that those messages of encouragement to him were heartfelt--and they were. finally, it is impossible to talk about george h. w. bush without talking about barbara pierce bush. they were a partnership, and what an example for all of us. seventy-three years together--they were a true team. they put family first, always. that has been a great lesson to my wife jane and me and our family--to watch how they navigated this crazy political world we were in, and yet they kept their family strong and together to this day. we saw the family yesterday. every one of those children and grandchildren and now great-grandchildren were coming with love and respect for their grandparents and great grandparents. that unconditional support and love that barbara bush and george had for one another formed a very equal relationship. barbara bush was feisty and opinionated, and george bush respected that, and he respected and loved her. those relationships in the family are what gave him so much strength, in my view. as much as anything, for him it was always about family as the foundation. he was also a man of deep faith. he did not wear it on his sleeve, but he believed that he was going to rejoin barbara. to him that was a blessing. he also believed that he was going to see his daughter robin, whom they lost way too soon. that was a blessing. as we mourn the death of president george h.w. bush, we can find comfort in knowing that he has been returned to those beloved family members. jane and i send our condolences to the entire bush family and to his many, many close friends. at the close of this truly great american life and this guiding light, let us honor his legacy by following his example of patriotism, public service, and civility. godspeed, george bush. the presiding officer. the senator from minnesota. ms. klobuchar. mr. president, i rise today to recognize former president george h.w. bush, and i want to thank my colleague senator portman from ohio for those personal memories. i now will always remember that baseball story. it is an example of what he stood for, and that is that he actually cared that there were people of both parties who would sign that baseball. i want to thank senator portman for carrying on that torch of working across the aisle. president bush dedicated his entire life to the united states. his first service was as a decorated navy pilot, as we know, who risked his life during world war ii and in 1944 was shot down [[page s7262]] in the pacific. that selfless sacrifice was not enough. he went on to spend 40 years in public service as a congressman from texas, as an ambassador to the united nations, as u.s. envoy to china, as director of the cia, and then, of course, as vice president and then as president. he wore so many hats during his time in service, but through it all he was a true statesman who treated both his friends and his rivals with grace and dignity. he also viewed the world through the lens of history, which was often the guiding force in his approach to diplomacy in dealing with the rest of the world. as president, he helped to bring an end to four decades of the cold war and the threat of nuclear engagement as democracy spread throughout eastern europe, and he signed the bipartisan americans with disabilities act, which has had a lasting impact in expanding the rights of americans with disabilities. his commitment to his country was unshakable, and he instilled this value in his own children. for george h.w. bush, patriotism was bigger than political rivalries. in 1993, as he departed the white house, he left a note, which many of us saw for the first time this week. it was a note that he left for president clinton, who had defeated president bush in the presidential election just two months before he signed that letter. president bush said: you will be our president when you read this note. i wish you well. i wish your family well. your success is now our country's success. i am rooting hard for you. he wrote that note just as he was turning over the keys to the oval office to someone who had just defeated him in an election campaign. president bush was someone who fought hard on the campaign trail, but once the votes were cast, he understood the underlying truth of america--that people with different political views are not enemies, and when all is said and done, we can come together to advance the cause of america, not tear it down. as senator portman noted, president bush's death comes less than 8 months after the passing of former first lady barbara bush, his wife of over 73 years. never one to be a shrinking violet, she was fiercely loyal to her family and an outspoken advocate for causes she believed in. i always respected her directness. she was her own person. she loved her family and her country. and we remember her this week as well. i was reading a story in our local minneapolis paper. i did not know that president bush actually trained in minnesota in the middle of winter for a few months before he went over to serve in the pacific. during that time, he wrote a number of letters to his own mother about his service. ok, maybe he complained about the minnesota weather a little bit, but one of the more amusing parts of those letters was that he told her that barbara was sending him some socks that she had knit for him down in texas. he said in the letter that she said they do not even look like socks, but when he received the socks, he said: they are actually not bad. they are pretty good socks. you literally could follow that part of his life in the letters he was writing back then to his mother. you could see the patriotism shine through. you could see what it was like for him to be away from his family and how much he loved his family. that carried on to the very end of his life. he was still so kind in these notes and so sweet to his family members and to those who had been his friends for so very long. as we pay tribute to president bush's tremendous record of service, we also must stay grounded in his respect for all public servants--not just the ones he agreed with--and his unwavering belief, in his own words, that ``no definition of a successful life can do anything but include serving others.'' of course, that service can come in many forms, as he showed in his own life. some people may serve in the military. some people may take on causes outside of government service and volunteer. others may work in law enforcement. others may, of course, get elected or have the privilege to work in this capitol for the people. president bush lived that life, and america has lost a true leader. my prayers are with the entire bush family. thank you, mr. president. i yield the floor. i suggest the absence of a quorum. the presiding officer (mr. portman). the clerk will call the roll. the senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll. ms. collins. mr. president, on ocean avenue in kennebunkport, me, stands a simple yet powerful monument, a gift from the people of that small community to a friend and neighbor. the monument is a u.s. navy anchor, and the friend and neighbor was president george herbert walker bush. it is a fitting tribute. president bush often called the family home at walker's point his ``anchor to the windward,'' a special place of unsurpassed beauty in a caring community. through the years, it has been the place that gave him the strength to face the many challenges he took on in dedicated service to our country. indeed, every summer of his life george herbert walker bush spent at walker's point, except when he was defending our country during world war ii. it is a fitting tribute in another way. as a navy aviator in world war ii, as a member of congress, as a special envoy to china, as director of the central intelligence agency, as vice president and president, george h.w. bush consistently and vigorously demonstrated the values that are the anchor of american society. courage, duty, honor, and compassion defined his life. as he encouraged americans to be ``a thousand points of light'' through service to others, he himself shone the brightest. he always answered the call to serve our country. i had the pleasure of visiting president and mrs. bush at walker's point many times over the years, and how i looked forward to those annual visits in kennebunkport. i remember the very first time so well. it was in 1994, and i had just won the republican primary for governor of maine. i received a call from president bush's staff inviting me to have lunch with him and mrs. bush at walker's point. the last time i saw the president was on september 7, just months after president bush had lost his beloved barbara and as his own health was rapidly declining. yet, as the presiding officer well knows, the president remained incredibly positive and warm. the qualities that made him such an inspiring leader were undiminished. throughout our long friendship, president bush, by his example and by his words, was always so encouraging, kind, and thoughtful. he taught me that you must always do what your heart tells you is right regardless of the consequences. he demonstrated that every difficulty must be met with strength and determination. george herbert walker bush was so kind to others. i remember one year when i visited him, he had completely shaved his head in solidarity with a young boy who was the son of a secret service agent who was part of his detail. this young boy was undergoing cancer treatments and had lost all of his hair, so president bush shaved off all of his hair too. that is the kind of individual he was--caring, compassionate, and committed. the end of a life so devoted to the highest ideals of the human spirit brings to mind the parable of the talents in the bible. the master, leaving on a journey, entrusts a servant with a portion of his treasure. upon his return, the master is delighted to find that his wealth was wisely invested and multiplied. george herbert walker bush was entrusted with the great treasure of principles, determination, and courage. he invested that treasure wisely and multiplied it to the benefit of all--not just here in america but throughout the world. like the master in the new testament, to him we say: well done, good and faithful servant. may god bless him, and may his memory always be anchored in our hearts. thank you, mr. president. mr. president, i suggest the absence of a quorum. the presiding officer. the clerk will call the roll. the legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll. mr. cruz. mr. president, i ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered. [[page s7263]] mr. cruz. mr. president, i rise today to honor the life and legacy of president george herbert walker bush. this week, american hearts are heavy as we bid farewell to our 41st president. since we heard the news of his passing just a few days ago, there has been a ceaseless stream of communications and commemorations and testimonies to president bush's character from every corner of our nation--from the worlds of politics, philanthropy, entertainment, business, the armed forces--and from our living ex-presidents. even those who were his rivals and critics during his public life have returned to praise that life so well and honorably lived. he will be remembered as a good and faithful servant to his country, whose great legacy of leadership and love of homeland became a family tradition. it earned him the admiration of countless americans and secured him a special place in the memory of every texan. over his storied career, president bush was a war hero and a businessman, a legislator and an ambassador. his 8 years as vice president prepared him well for the heavy burdens of the nation's highest office in his steering our nation with a steady and strong hand at the helm through the fall of the berlin wall and the first gulf war. indeed, of his legacy as president, that calm, steady, strong leadership as america won the cold war will, no doubt, be his enduring legacy. a great many of us in this body were blessed to know president bush personally and to have had experiences in which he and barbara touched our lives. for me, my favorite experience with president george herbert walker bush occurred in 2009. in 2009, i was beginning a campaign for attorney general in the state of texas. it appeared that the job would be vacant, and i was campaigning to fill it. i had never run for office before. president bush invited me to go to the family home up in kennebunkport, me. so i got on a plane, and i flew up to maine. i remember sitting on that plane, wondering what to say to him, what to ask of him. i did not know president bush; i did not know barbara. i remember, at the end of the day, resolving that i was not going to ask for anything other than, simply, his advice, to say: mr. president, you are an elder statesman who has spent decades in public service. what advice would you give to someone running his very first campaign for public office? what path should i endeavor to follow? i had assumed that the meeting would be a 10-, 20-minute meeting, a perfunctory meeting. it was very kind of him to take it, but i did not expect much from the meeting. when i sat down, i was amazed, first of all, that he knew everything about the race--all of the potential players who might be running for that position. he knew a great deal about my background, which had me utterly flabbergasted because we did not know each other. it was obvious he was briefed and prepared before the meeting. he had put in that time. after about 20 minutes, he asked me: ted, when is your flight back? i said: well, it is in a couple of hours. i am flying out of boston. he said: can you, maybe, stay and go out on the boat with barbara and me? i laughed. i said: mr. president, plane reservations can be easily changed. i will stay here as long as you would like me to. he looked at me--i was wearing a suit--and he said: well, that is, clearly, not going to do. we had been meeting in an office, which was in a separate building. so he took me to a golf cart, and we drove in the golf cart to the residence. he took me back to his and barbara's bedroom. he opened his closet. he pulled out a pair of jeans; he pulled out a shirt; he pulled out a belt with a buckle that read ``president of the united states.'' it was his buckle. he said: here, ted. put this on. so i dressed in the president's clothes, and we went out on the boat. now, it is worth remembering that president bush was a former naval aviator. he drove the boat and drove it full speed--with the throttle pushed as far as it would go. it was a beautiful, cool summer's day along the maine shore, with waves splashing in the air. there was a light rain in the mist. barbara sat at the front of the boat, with rain pelting her face, and she was smiling and glowing. at the time, we were in the midst of the so-called green revolution in iran. so i remember asking ``mr. president, what do you think about what is happening in iran? what do you think about the changes?'' and just marveling, what on earth am i doing on this boat, crashing through the waves, listening to president george herbert walker bush give me his thoughts on national security and the interests of the united states? we had, by the way, secret service agents in zodiac boats who were following as fast as they could and were having trouble keeping up with the president. so i ended up having lunch with president bush and barbara. we went to a little restaurant where we had some maine lobster. i ended up spending 4\1/2\ hours with them. when i was getting ready to leave, i was walking to the door, and i was thanking him for spending so much time. he reached in his pocket, and he pulled out a check--a check for $1,000 to my attorney general campaign. you could have knocked me over with a stick. i am not someone who is known for being at a loss for words, and i, simply, stared at him and stammered. i think i barely got out the words ``thank you,'' but i was so astonished. the check, simply, read ``from george and barbara bush.'' i got in the rental car and began driving back to the airport. i called heidi, and i said: heidi, i just had the most magical, unbelievable day. he did not have to do any of that. he did not have to give me the time of day. yet he poured his heart into the people around him, into his family, into his public service, and into his nation. that was just one, small illustration of the graciousness, the generosity, the humility of spirit that characterized his entire 94 years on this planet. president bush was the last of the ``greatest generation'' to sit in the oval office, but his resolve will not be lost to the past; it will triumph onward. in his words: the old ideas are new again because they are not old; they are timeless: duty, sacrifice, commitment, and a patriotism that finds its expression in taking part and pitching in. the 91st psalm is sometimes called the soldier's or the warrior's psalm because it asks the lord for protection against a litany of foes, and it promises a refuge and a fortress in him. it ends with the two most important gifts that can be bestowed on the faithful warrior: ``i shall satisfy him with a long life and grant him to see my salvation.'' in having enjoyed that first gift, an incredible life of 94 years of making a difference, may president bush now enjoy the second, bestowed upon a good and faithful servant. now george and his beloved barbara are together at last, with their daughter robin, and they are enjoying a well-deserved rest from their labors. now his spirit has joined a thousand points of light with his creator, by whose brilliance may all our works be illuminated and inspired. president george herbert walker bush leaves behind 6 children, 17 grandchildren, and 8 great-grandchildren. he and barbara were married for 73 years--the longest presidential marriage in the history of the united states. god bless the memory of president george herbert walker bush. god bless the legacy of service that he and barbara instilled in generation after generation of the bush family. texas and america are far better for having known and loved him. i yield the floor. mr. durbin. mr. president, several years ago, after his 3-year-old daughter robin passed away from leukemia, george herbert walker bush wrote to his mother about how much he loved and missed his little girl. it is a beautiful, almost heartbreaking letter. near the end, he wrote about his daughter's continued presence in his life and the life of his family. he said: ``we cannot touch her and yet we feel her.'' president bush himself has now passed beyond our reach. yet, knowingly or not, we all feel the difference he made in the nation and in the world. many of us feel that deep longing for a ``kinder, gentler'' nation that president bush promised in his inaugural address 30 years ago. [[page s7264]] george herbert walker bush was an american patriot who devoted his life to his family and to his country. on his 18th birthday--6 months after pearl harbor--he enlisted in the u.s. navy and became one of the youngest aviators in the history of the navy. he was discharged 1 month after japan's surrender, but he never stopped serving america. there is a book entitled ``flyboys'' that tells the story of the squadron george herbert walker bush was a part of and the deadly mission they were given in the south pacific. he flew some 58 missions as a navy pilot. on his last assignment, he was shot down, and two of his crew were killed in that confrontation. fortunately for us and for him, he was rescued by a submarine. there is a grainy, black-and-white film of his being fished out of the ocean by the american submarine that is still an inspiration to this day. as the 41st president of the united states and the father of the 43rd president, he was the linchpin of a political dynasty that spanned four generations. he already had a lifetime of public service before he became president--as a texas congressman, ambassador to the united nations, envoy to china, director of the cia, and vice president to ronald reagan. despite his extraordinary achievements, he was a man of remarkable humility. if his syntax sounded a little choppy at times--and dana carvey made a fortune imitating him--it was partly due to the fact that george herbert walker bush had difficulty using the words ``i'' and ``me.'' when he was a young boy, his mother taught him that those were the words of braggarts. riding in the presidential limousine through streets lined with cheering crowds, he once told a fellow passenger: ``they are not clapping for me; they are clapping for the office of the president.'' that was exactly how he thought it should be. i was still a rather new congressman when george herbert walker bush was president. i sure did not agree with all of his policies, as my voting record demonstrates, but that is a discussion for another time. as president bush's own life shows us, there is a time for politics, and there is a time to put politics aside and to recall the exceptional lifetime of service he gave to our nation. president reagan helped hurry the end of the cold war, but it fell to president george herbert walker bush to successfully navigate the aftermath. when the berlin wall fell in 1989, he insisted there would be no gloating or triumphalism from his administration. his low-key approach helped set the tone for our nato allies, and it helped make possible the peaceful end of the soviet union. never before had such a heavily armed empire ended with so little turmoil or bloodshed in its final days. in the 2 years before the collapse of the soviet union, president bush and then-soviet president mikhail gorbachev successfully negotiated the start nuclear arms treaty. under president george herbert walker bush, we saw the largest reduction in nuclear weapons in history, and america and the world are safer today because of it. if you want to see the world's enduring respect for president bush, look at the statesmen and stateswomen expected to attend his memorial service tomorrow at the national cathedral. among them are mikhail gorbachev, his partner in historic change, and german chancellor angela merkel, who grew up in communist east germany. it is said that the germans today credit george herbert walker bush more than any person for their successful reunification. he knew that america is stronger when we work with partners than when we imagine we can somehow go it alone. when iraqi troops invaded kuwait in 1990, george herbert walker bush methodically assembled an international coalition to push them back. he left his mark on domestic policy as well. he fought for and in 1990 signed the americans with disabilities act--one of the greatest civil rights laws in our nation's modern history. president bush was a committed conservative and a texan by choice. he had close ties to the oil industry, but he believed in science. what a welcome change it would be in washington today if his party felt the same. president george herbert walker bush understood that poisoning our planet is not just unfair to future generations, it is bad for business, and it is bad for our economy. he helped build bipartisan support--this republican president helped build bipartisan support--and signed the clean air act of 1990, strengthening the federal government's role and protecting the very air we breathe. he signed the global change research act of 1990, establishing an interagency federal council to improve understanding of global change and to devise a plan to reduce the risks of climate catastrophe. what a sharp contrast to the current administration. george herbert walker bush's work was the work of a leader. between 1980 and 1990, america's budget deficit tripled to $220 billion, driven largely by the reagan-era tax cuts. in 1990, with a lot of criticism, president bush had the courage to sign a tax increase--as president reagan had before him--to help pay down the deficit for future generations. he put the interests of future generations ahead of his own short-term political advantage, and he paid a heavy price in the next election. he may have even lost because of it. years later, he received a profile in courage award for that leadership. in his inaugural address, president bush said that the real strength and greatness of america came from ``a thousand points of light''--the countless acts of decency and compassion we show to each other and to those in need. in his post-presidential years, he remained a committed advocate for volunteerism, community, and national service. he was active in domestic and global humanitarian activities, often alongside former president bill clinton, an old political opponent turned ally. in 1995, after a domestic terrorist bombed the murrah federal building in oklahoma city, killing 168 people and injuring 680 more, the national rifle association sent out a fundraising letter denouncing the federal agents of the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms as ``jack-booted thugs.'' former president george herbert walker bush reacted with anger. he denounced that vitriol by the nra as ``a vicious slander on good people.'' he publicly resigned his nra lifetime membership, placing conscience ahead of political calculation. like john mccain and others who have personally experienced the terror of war, george herbert walker bush did not confuse politics with war. he did not mistake political opponents for enemies. he understood that people can have differences of opinion and both still love the country. our sadness at losing him seems partly a reflection for our own deep, deep yearning as a nation today for the kind of leadership and character and integrity and honesty and courage that he brought to the office of presidency. in his first inaugural address, president lincoln pleaded with a nation on the knife's edge of war. he said: we are not enemies, but friends. we must not be enemies. lincoln urged us to be guided ``by the better angels of our nature.'' in his own inaugural address, president george herbert walker bush also spoke of all americans as friends. let me read two short sections of his remarks. my friends, we are not the sum of our possessions. they are not the measure of our lives. in our hearts, we know what matters. we cannot hope only to leave our children a bigger car, a bigger bank account. we must hope to give them a sense of what it means to be a loyal friend, a loving parent, a citizen who leaves his home, his neighborhood and town better than he found it. and what do we want the men and women who work with us to say when we are no longer there? that we were more driven to succeed than anyone around us? or that we stopped to ask if a sick child had gotten better and stayed a moment there to trade a word of friendship? president george bush went on to say: america is never wholly herself unless she is engaged in high moral principle. we as a people have such a purpose today. it is to make kinder the face of the nation and gentler the face of the world. . . . my friends, we have work to do. as a tribute to george herbert walker bush, who lies in state in the rotunda of the u.s. capitol--the 32nd person to be so honored in our history--let us try to remember we are not enemies but friends, and may we summon the courage, the wisdom, and the humility to put the interests of our nation and our world ahead of self-interest. [[page s7265]] in closing, my wife loretta and i send our deepest condolences to president bush, his family, and all who knew and loved him. ____________________