Newsroom
Press Releases
Published:
10.24.2025
Cruz, Cornyn Accepting Applications for District Court Vacancies
WASHINGTON, D.C.
– Today, U.S. Sens. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and John Cornyn (R-Texas) announced that they are accepting applications for federal judicial vacancies in the
Southern and Northern Districts of Texas
. These vacancies are located in McAllen and Dallas, respectively.
Sen. Cruz said,
“Selecting lawyers to serve as federal judges is one of the most important duties I have as a U.S. Senator. Texans deserve principled, unwavering leaders who will defend the Constitution, honor the rule of law, and serve with integrity. Texas is home to some of the nation’s most brilliant legal minds, and Senator Cornyn and I will recommend exceptional candidates who embody those strengths.”
Sen. Cornyn said,
“As a former judge and Attorney General of Texas, I know firsthand how critical it is for our state to have the best and brightest jurists sitting on the federal bench and working to uphold the rule of law. I encourage qualified Texans who are interested in serving to submit their applications to our review committee.”
Sens. Cruz and Cornyn have established the Federal Judicial Evaluation Committee (FJEC), a bipartisan panel of leading attorneys in Texas, which reviews applications, interviews candidates, and makes recommendations to the Senators to help fill judicial vacancies.
Application Information:
Sens. Cruz and Cornyn invite qualified candidates to seek appointment by submitting their resumes and completed questionnaires to both lawmakers’ offices.
The questionnaire is available
here
.
Completed application packets must be received at the email addresses below
no later than November 17, 2025.
Email is strongly recommended because of delays due to security procedures involving Congressional mail. Submitted questionnaires for judicial vacancies will be reviewed by the Federal Judicial Evaluation Committee, and selected candidates will be invited to interview. Questions regarding applications may also be directed to the contacts listed below.
U.S. Senator Ted Cruz
FJEC@cruz.senate.gov
Attn: Kenneth Lee
U.S. Senator John Cornyn
FJEC@cornyn.senate.gov
Attn: Franci Rooney Becker
Previous
Next