Newsroom
Press Releases
Published:
11.11.2025
Sen. Cruz, Rep. Nehls, and Congressional Medal of Honor Society Issue Statements on Final Passage of MEDAL Act
WASHINGTON, D.C. –
U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, issued the following statement about Senate passage of the House version of the
Monetary Enhancement for Distinguished Active Legends (MEDAL) Act
, legislation which he drafted and will now pass into law. The act was unanimously passed by the Senate had previously been passed unanimously by the U.S. House of Representatives It will increase the monthly pension for living Medal of Honor recipients to $67,500 annually.
Sen. Cruz said,
“The Medal of Honor is our nation’s highest military honor, reserved for those who have distinguished themselves by incredible acts of valor that go above and beyond the call of duty. We have an obligation to ensure they have the support and resources they need. I’m proud that my colleagues in the House and Senate unanimously passed this legislation, affirming that obligation and ensuring that we mark the unwavering dedication of these men and women to our freedom and our country.”
Sen. Cruz spoke on the floor last week urging Senate passage of the MEDAL Act. Click
here
to watch that speech. During his remarks he recognized the nine Medal of Honor recipients currently living in the Lone Star State, as well as
Lieutenant Colonel William Swenson
and
Colonel Paris Davis
, who were in attendance for the speech and are pictured above.
The MEDAL Act is supported by the
Congressional Medal of Honor Society
(CMOHS).
Britt Slabinski, President of the CMOHS, said,
“On behalf of the Congressional Medal of Honor Society (CMOHS), I want to thank Senator Cruz for his leadership and commitment in advancing the Medal of Honor Act through the Senate. We are equally grateful to Representative Troy Nehls for his vision in originating this effort in the House and for the bipartisan resolve that made its passage possible – a reflection of shared respect for those who serve that rises above politics. This law honors the individuals who carry our nation’s highest recognition for valor in combat not through comfort, but through purpose. It strengthens our capacity, as Recipients, to continue serving our country and to uphold the Medal’s values of courage, sacrifice, and service beyond self, ensuring that the spirit of duty our nation depends on endures.”
The legislation was introduced in the House by Rep. Troy Nehls (R-Texas-22).
Rep. Nehls said,
“The United States Senate did good by our nation’s highest decorated Veterans by passing my bill, the Medal of Honor Act, by unanimous consent,” said Congressman Nehls. “Medal of Honor recipients don’t ask for recognition or demand special treatment. They are selfless heroes who embody the best of our country. The least Congress can do is ease the financial burdens of these heroes by raising their well-deserved annual pension. Thank you to my Texas Republican colleague, Senator Ted Cruz, for championing this initiative in the Senate. I look forward to seeing this bill signed into law by President Trump.”
Read the
Medal of Honor Act
here
.
BACKGROUND
The Medal of Honor is the highest military decoration bestowed by the United States. There are only 61 living Medal of Honor recipients.
Medal of Honor recipients are often not retired from the U.S. military and often receive no compensation for the costs of their public engagements. Through these appearances, they share stories of heroism that inspire Americans, strengthen national pride, and support military recruiting and retention. Increasing their monthly pensions is essential to easing the financial burden on their families and ensuring they can continue representing the best of our nation’s values.
Previous
Next