Newsroom
Press Releases
Published:
11.10.2025
Sens. Cruz, Hyde-Smith, Capito Introduce Bill to Restore Trust in the USPS
WASHINGTON, D.C.
–
U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-Miss.), and Shelley Moore Capito (R-W. Va.) introduced the
Upholding a Secure Postal System (USPS) Act
to direct the U.S. Comptroller General to submit a report to Congress on nationwide mail theft trends and the security of postal property.
Sen. Cruz said
, “
Mail theft has become a growing concern for Texans who depend on a reliable postal service. I am committed to restoring trust in the USPS by addressing the widespread theft of mail, and this bill will bring us one step closer to achieving that goal.
”
Sen. Hyde-Smith said,
“We must get a better handle on protecting our postal system from shameless porch pirates and the brazen thieves who target USPS drop boxes. This legislation will force the Postal Service to truly assess losses and threats to the sanctity of our postal system, while also giving Congress a clearer path forward to combat this growing problem.”
Sen. Capito said,
“The U.S. Postal Service plays a central role in many Americans’ day-to-day lives. In recent years however, I’ve heard from countless West Virginians frustrated by delays and widespread mail theft. I am proud to help introduce the Upholding a Secure Postal System (USPS) Act to help address this issue and increase accountability at the Postal Service.”
Companion legislation was introduced in the House by Rep. Randy Weber (R-Texas-14).
Rep. Weber said,
“Postal theft is a persistent problem nationwide. The Houston area, my district, and I myself have personally fallen victim to this frustrating crime. For far too long, criminals have seen the USPS as a soft target to steal from everyday Americans. Sometimes, it’s even an inside job. It is imperative that the public be able to rely on this age-old institution to pay bills, receive medication, and get other essential items on time. With President Trump cleaning up the federal government, the USPS is no exception. Our bill will require the USPS to submit reports to Congress on nationwide trends of postal theft and steps they are taking to prevent communities from being plagued by this crime. We will keep pressing for transparency and results, especially for Texas’ 14th District, and to ensure the USPS finally delivers for the American people again.”
Read the bill text
here
.
BACKGROUND
The report would be submitted annually for five years to the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and would detail the measures the Postal Service has taken to combat mail theft.
In 2023, Sen. Cruz first
introduced
this legislation and sent
several
letters
to the USPS demanding answers about mail theft around Galveston, Texas.
Previous
Next