all right and i cannot thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. bonnetsha red county for giving me the... thank you for giving me the honor of being your next united states congresswoman. thank you. let me just say a few moments ago i received a very, very gracious call from adam and has their congratulating me. he was a formidable and articulate challenger and let me just say this armful fortunate that we live in a country when we settle our differences at a ballot box and not for a street. so listen, i want to thank all my very wonderful supporters in this room. we are giving your time, your financial resources and your incredible encouragement. you know, we had a deal with those first few little super pacs, but i had what counted the most. i had you. let me tell you something. with your help, we made 500,000 in person telephone calls into our district. we knocked on 27,000 doors in the last three weeks. and listen to this. our social media team sent out over 100 million emails. i know, okay, enough enough. i got to give a special shout out to my party chair here, terry rizzo and her team. i had an ad on broward county chair and schlazer and thank you for your countless hours of work. and listen, i have had the most awesome campaign team. are you down there? at these, i have young people coming from all over the country and the really big. they are talent and their dedication is far and very every day. so tonight, i have some people with me. it is a very, very special people. but before i introduce them, i want to say this. i have blessed i was back in 1974. i stumbled on a city called west palm beach where i raised my son. we will get to build my career and make some very long lasting friendships. and the natural beauty of our area is only surpassed by the beautiful diversity. and i am so honored to serve this area both as you state, legislator and as you are mayor. that is the same. you cannot choose your friends but not your family. but guess what? even if i got to pick my family, they would be just like the ones i have here tonight. i aunt and uncle are willing to be there because of jackie and anita right here. my step dad, alex. and of course, my wonderful brother, ex-listero mariam, my brother stouie and harold. and then of course, the two people who inspire me every day. first, my amazing, sparkly mother. she said i am not allowed to say her age anymore. as there was reported on a wptv that she was 187 years old. she said she is a miracle. you know what? my mom has loved and encouraged me every moment of my life. she told me so for responsibility. she and my dad and also about social justice. and i love you mom. and now i wanted you just to star my family to my left. this is the star of my family. today was a very, just a blessed day for me because 14 years ago, this young man who is standing next to me, he sent in an absentee ballot from my rag when he was serving as a united states marine. and today, i got to watch him voting for him. and he says he vote for me. this is my son ben. he grew up here in the united states marine. and the previous person i know. this is my work for congress, my public service, has been about my mom, my son, your mom, and your dad, your children. and i just, i am going to be there to make sure you are going to get that medicare. and check every day. and they are going to be good jobs for young people like my son. and of course, investing in our infrastructure, innovation, education, so all our young people have an opportunity. and of course, my run for congress has been about also making sure that the women of our country are going to be allowed to make their own personal health care decisions. all right. so listen, i declare the campaign is over. let the big red end, and i stand ready to serve both the people who supported me and those who voted for another candidate. and i am going to go to washington. i am going to roll up my sleeves. i am going to reach out my hand and i am going to work with any person, anybody who wants to move this country forward. so listen, everybody here. i see so many friends here. you know it is been a long, this has been a dream come true for me. i just thank you. thank you. thank you to society for your support, your encouragement and confidence. you have given me the honor of my life times. and i will proudly be your representative listening to your concerns, bringing forward your issues. i have counted on you. i have counted on you in this election. and now you can count on me. i will always be on your side.