first, let me say i find it remarkable in the midst of the covid pandemic that anyone can think it is a good idea to take access to healthcare away from people. but moving right along, you know, when the world witnessed a police officer putting his knee on george floyd's neck causing his death, we were rightfully horrified. and across our country, millions of americans were their voices, signs, and nearly their presence called out against racism and justice. well, here's the thing is many of my colleagues before me has said racial and justice in fact systemic justice comes in many forms. the beneficiaries of title 10 funding are mostly people with low incomes who could not afford otherwise healthcare on their own. the majority are people of color issuing a gag rule that bans health professionals who provide care to the title 10 program, such as planned parent who was serving 41% of title 10 patients before they got excluded. discussing all health options with their patients, including abortion blocking, accessing to afford a birth control, std testing, cancer screening, more to millions. the banking healthcare provided by blocking women from access to free full reproductive services and other issues in this to calls amendment. just one of the many examples of the systemic efforts, discriminatory efforts on the part of the trump pence administration, which since day one has aggressively targeted the health, the rights and the bodily autonomy of women, especially hurting people of color. people with low incomes and lgbt individuals, it is a pattern, it is a practice and i will highlight some reinstate the global gag rule we talked about that last week. refusal policies that allow healthcare workers to impose their beliefs on others. the rule that allows one boss to decide whether or not your birth control is carried by insurance, affecting an estimated 70 to 126,000 people who could lose access to contraception, attempting to repeal the affordable care act, which means taking away the aca's mandatory health benefits, including maternity coverage and well-wimmed exams, directing the thp prevention program to a useless, abscessant only program, nominating more than 200 anti abortion judges for lifetime appointments, appointing two supreme court nominees who according to trump would vote to overturn well be weighed to allow healthcare, discrimination against lgbt individuals and people who had an abortion, pushing dignitaries at the un commission on the status of women to remove references to contraception, abortion and sex education from the statement laid out global standards for gender equality. eliminating protections to survivors of sexual assault on college campuses, implementing a rule that could block people from citizenship or permanent residency in the us simply because they received anyone of a broad range of public benefits, including health, nutrition assistance, and public housing, and the ultimate discriminatory action against for women that continued support of the hyde amendment that bans federal funding for legal abortion. on, listen, i am not even going to get into the sadistic mayhem being caused at the border. so do you get the picture? i will say it again, madam chair. since day one, the trump pants administration has had their knee on equal access to healthcare, and i will conclude with this, and i know i speak for many women have fought for the right to vote for a quality and education to get credit in our own name for access to contraception. i will say that for access to contraception and get safe legal abortion and we will not go back. please defeat this very bad amendment and i yield back.