[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 4 (Thursday, January 7, 2016)]
[House]
[Page H111]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
CENSURING PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Mississippi (Mr. Palazzo) for 5 minutes.
Mr. PALAZZO. Mr. Speaker, time and time again, the President has
violated the boundaries of executive power. He has refused to enforce
our immigration laws. He has opened the borders to Syrian migrants
against the will of the American people. He has even changed the
provisions of his own disastrous healthcare bill.
This week, the administration once again thumbed its nose at Congress
and the American people by jeopardizing the gun rights of law-abiding
citizens.
Mr. Speaker, the American people are fed up. The American people
continue to see the executive branch not only deciding which laws they
choose to enforce, but changing and interpreting the laws as they see
fit. The White House has become judge, jury, and executioner, in clear
violation of the principles on which this Nation was founded.
Today I am introducing a resolution to censure President Barack Obama
to serve as a clear rebuke and condemnation of the unconstitutional
actions of this President. This is a bold measure, but is one that is
necessary to preserve the very institution that we are all honored to
serve: the United States Congress.
The Constitution requires that the President shall take care that the
laws be faithfully executed. This President has failed to do so on
numerous occasions.
The Constitution also requires the President to preserve, protect,
and defend the Constitution of the United States. The President has
failed to do so.
Not only is the President trying to do our job, but he has failed to
do his.
His announced actions on gun control are just the latest example of
blatant executive overreach by the President. Congress must fight back.
I want to make it very clear. This is not about President Obama. This
is about the actions of a President who has encroached too far on the
powers of Congress.
Under the Constitution, Congress is an equal branch of government and
should be treated as such. We cannot roll over on every executive
overreach. We cannot wait to fight next time.
We cannot wait for the next President because it is not about this
President or the next President. It is not about politics. It is about
preserving the power of the legislative branch against this President
and any future President who seeks to use egregious executive action at
the expense of Congress.
A resolution of censure of the President has been used rarely, but is
not without precedent. It is a way for Congress to fight back against
executive overreach. Censuring the President will preserve for the
historical and legal record that this Congress at this time disapproves
of this President's executive overreach. It is time Congress fights
back as an institution.
I urge my colleagues to live up to their oath of office, both
Republican and Democrat, to support this resolution to censure the
President and put the executive branch on notice that violating the
separation of powers and using unconstitutional executive overreach
will not be tolerated by Members of the United States Congress now or
in the future.
____________________