[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 17 (Tuesday, January 30, 2024)]
[House]
[Pages H276-H277]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
{time}  1015
HONORING MINNESOTA LAW ENFORCEMENT ON JANUARY FENTANYL SEIZURE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Minnesota (Ms. Craig) for 5 minutes.
Ms. CRAIG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a group of
Minnesota heroes.
Earlier this month, the Washington County Drug Task Force, made up of
law enforcement from Dakota, Ramsey, and Washington Counties,
successfully executed the largest fentanyl seizure in Minnesota
history.
The officers seized over 30,000 grams of fentanyl pills and charged
six individuals for their role in trafficking these drugs. It is
difficult to comprehend the devastation that could have befallen these
families if those pills had reached our community.
In Minnesota, we know that fighting the fentanyl crisis will require
all members of our communities to do their part.
From those dedicated members of Minnesota law enforcement to the
parents and advocates who have shared their stories with me, to the
educators working to raise awareness about the dangers of illicit
drugs, we all have a
[[Page H277]]
role to play in saving lives and addressing this crisis. That is why I
am working across the aisle to expand overdose prevention tools and
hold drug traffickers accountable.
A grateful community thanks every member of law enforcement for the
work they do every day to keep our communities safe.
Israeli Hostages
Ms. CRAIG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to share the story of Naama
Levy. Naama is just 19 years old. Before October 7, she was full of joy
with dreams of helping people in need.
She was last recorded on a cell phone being dragged by her hair at
gunpoint, injured and bound by Hamas terrorists in Gaza. On October 7,
Naama and more than 240 other men, women, and children were kidnapped
from their homes and their communities, as even more innocent people
were killed, sexually assaulted, and tortured.
Naama and 135 other hostages are still being held captive in Gaza,
enduring unspeakable trauma at the hands of Hamas who refuse to let
them go.
I stand here today to demand that Hamas release Naama immediately
with all of the other hostages, and I stand with Israel as it works to
destroy Hamas and free Naama and its other citizens wrongfully held by
this terrorist group.
It is past time that we bring Naama home. We must bring them all
home.
Support for Credit Unions
Ms. CRAIG. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to thank the more than 4,700
credit unions across the country, including 86 chartered in my home
State of Minnesota.
As not-for-profit, member-owned financial institutions, credit unions
work every day to improve the financial well-being of American
households and communities, including the nearly 300,000 credit union
members in Minnesota's Second District.
It is estimated that Minnesota credit unions have provided more than
$227 million in direct financial benefit to our State. Local branches
in the Second Congressional District have done important work helping
customers gain early access to their paychecks, supporting local school
athletic programs and veterans' organizations, and hosting community
events. Our credit unions have put community and customer trust first.
This month credit unions in Minnesota and nationwide will be
represented by the newly launched America's Credit Unions to better
serve the more than 140 million people who rely on them for financial
well-being.
I am a proud supporter of Minnesota and America's credit unions in
Congress.
____________________