[congressional record volume 162, number 6 (monday, january 11, 2016)] [house] [pages h246-h247] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] taxpayers right-to-know act mr. chaffetz. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 598) to provide taxpayers with an annual report disclosing the cost and performance of government programs and areas of duplication among them, and for other purposes, as amended. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 598 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``taxpayers right-to-know act''. sec. 2. inventory of government programs. (a) in general.--section 1122(a) of title 31, united states code, is amended-- (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively; (2) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so redesignated, the following: ``(1) definition of program.--for purposes of this subsection, the term `program' means an organized set of activities by 1 or more agencies directed toward a common purpose or goal.''; (3) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated-- (a) by striking ``in general.--not later than october 1, 2012, the office of management and budget shall'' and inserting ``website and program inventory.--the director of the office of management and budget shall''; (b) by striking subparagraph (c) and inserting the following: ``(c) include on the website-- ``(i) a program inventory that shall identify each program of the federal government for which there is more than $1,000,000 in annual budget authority, which shall include-- ``(i) any activity that is commonly referred to as a program by a federal agency in communications with congress, including any activity identified as a program in a budget request; ``(ii) any activity that is commonly referred to as a program by a federal agency in communications with the public, including each program for which financial awards are made on a competitive basis; and ``(iii) any activity referenced in law as a program after june 30, 2019; and ``(ii) for each program identified in the program inventory, the information required under paragraph (3) or paragraph (4), as applicable.''; (4) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated-- (a) in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by striking ``information.--information for each program described under paragraph (1)'' and inserting ``information for larger programs.--information for each program identified in the program inventory required under paragraph (2) for which there is more than $10,000,000 in annual budget authority''; (b) by striking subparagraph (c); (c) by redesignating subparagraph (b) as subparagraph (d); (d) by striking subparagraph (a) and inserting the following: ``(a) an identification of the program activities that are aggregated, disaggregated, or consolidated as part of identifying programs; ``(b) for each program activity described in subparagraph (a), the amount of funding for the current fiscal year and previous 2 fiscal years; ``(c) an estimate of the amount of funding for the program;''; (e) in subparagraph (d), as so redesignated, by striking ``and'' at the end; and (f) by adding at the end the following: ``(e) an identification of the statutes that authorize the program and any major regulations specific to the program; ``(f) for any program that provides grants or other financial assistance to individuals or entities, for the most recent fiscal year-- ``(i) a description of the individuals served by the program and beneficiaries who received financial assistance under the program, including an estimate of the number of individuals and beneficiaries, to the extent practicable; ``(ii) for each program for which the head of an agency determines it is not practicable to provide an estimate of the number of individuals and beneficiaries served by the program-- ``(i) an explanation of why data regarding the number of such individuals and beneficiaries cannot be provided; and ``(ii) a discussion of the measures that could be taken to gather the data required to provide such an estimate; and ``(iii) a description of-- ``(i) the federal employees who administer the program, including the number of full-time equivalents with a pro rata estimate for full-time equivalents associated with multiple programs; and ``(ii) other individuals whose salary is paid in part or full by the federal government through a grant, contract, cooperative agreement, or another form of financial award or assistance who administer or assist in any way in administering the program, including the number of full-time equivalents, to the extent practicable; ``(g) links to any evaluation, assessment, or program performance reviews by the agency, an inspector general, or the government accountability office (including program performance reports required under section 1116) released during the preceding 5 years; and ``(h) to the extent practicable, financial and other information for each program activity required to be reported under the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (31 u.s.c. 6101 note).''; and (5) by adding at the end the following: ``(4) information for smaller programs.--information for each program identified in the program inventory required under paragraph (2) for which there is more than $1,000,000 and not more than $10,000,000 in annual budget authority shall, at a minimum, include-- ``(a) an identification of the program activities that are aggregated, disaggregated, or consolidated as part of identifying programs; ``(b) for each program activity described in subparagraph (a), the amount of funding for the current fiscal year and previous 2 fiscal years; ``(c) an identification of the statutes that authorize the program and any major regulations specific to the program; ``(d) for any program that provides grants or other financial assistance to individuals or entities, a description of the individuals served by the program and beneficiaries who received financial assistance under the program for the most recent fiscal year; and ``(e) links to any evaluation, assessment, or program performance reviews by the agency, an inspector general, or the government accountability office (including program performance reports required under section 1116) released during the preceding 5 years. ``(5) archiving.--after the end of each fiscal year, the director of the office of management and budget shall archive and preserve the information included in the program inventory required under paragraph (2) relating to that fiscal year.''. (b) expired grant funding.--not later than february 1 of each fiscal year, the director of the office of management and budget shall publish on a public website the total amount of undisbursed grant funding remaining in grant accounts for which the period of availability to the grantee has expired. sec. 3. guidance and implementation. (a) guidance.--not later than june 30, 2018, the director of the office of management and budget-- (1) shall prescribe guidance to implement this act, and the amendments made by this act; (2) shall issue guidance to agencies to identify how the program activities used for reporting under the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (31 u.s.c. 6101 note) are associated with programs identified in the program inventory required under section 1122(a)(2)(c)(i) of title 31, united states code, as amended by subsection (a); (3) may issue guidance to agencies to ensure that the programs identified in the program inventory required under section [[page h247]] 1122(a)(2)(c)(i) of title 31, united states code, as amended by subsection (a), are presented at a similar level of detail across agencies and are not duplicative or overlapping; and (4) may, based on an analysis of the costs of implementation, and after submitting to congress a notification of the action by the director-- (a) exempt from the requirements under section 1122(a) of title 31, united states code, an agency that-- (i) is not listed in section 901(b) of title 31, united states code; and (ii) for the fiscal year during which the exemption is made, has budget authority (as defined in section 3 of the congressional budget act of 1974 (2 u.s.c. 622)) of not more than $10,000,000; and (b) extend the implementation deadline under subsection (b) by not more than 1 year. (b) implementation.--this act, and the amendments made by this act, shall be implemented not later than june 30, 2019. sec. 4. no additional funds authorized. no additional funds are authorized to carry out the requirements of this act and the amendments made by this act. such requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from utah (mr. chaffetz) and the gentlewoman from the district of columbia (ms. norton) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from utah. general leave mr. chaffetz. i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous materials on the bill under consideration. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from utah? there was no objection. mr. chaffetz. mr. speaker, i yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from michigan (mr. walberg), the prime author of this bill. mr. walberg. mr. speaker, i thank the chairman. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of h.r. 598, the taxpayers right-to-know act. this bill is a bipartisan and bicameral effort to provide more information about federal programs and their activities online. i want to thank my colleague jim cooper for all his work in pushing this legislation forward. the american people deserve to know what their government does with their hard-earned dollars, do not you think? h.r. 598 will make it easier to evaluate federal government spending by requiring federal agencies to identify their programs and provide basic information like what their programs do, how they perform, and how much they cost. agencies must do a better job of managing their programs and identifying areas where taxpayer dollars are wasted. the government accountability office is tasked with reporting on duplication and continues to find new areas of duplication across government. over 5 years, gao has identified 106 areas of duplication, overlap, and fragmentation; moreover, they identified an additional 72 areas for potential cost savings. while only 37 percent of recommended corrective actions have been taken, gao estimates that these actions have saved the federal government and the taxpayer about $20 billion. while gao's work has been invaluable, their ability to look comprehensively at the federal government is inherently limited because of the poor reporting by agencies about their activity. quite simply, without better data, billions more will be lost and wasted. current law, specifically, the government performance and results modernization act, requires agencies to report all their programs, their funding, and their performance information to the office of management and budget. however, omb's current inventory is incomplete and provides inconsistent information. this makes it more difficult and time consuming to identify areas of waste and inefficiency. h.r. 598 establishes an across-the-board definition of ``program'' and requires the publication of detailed information on each federal program. this change will allow american taxpayers and federal watchdogs to better evaluate the effectiveness and utility of government programs. the taxpayers right-to-know act is an important and necessary step forward for the government in providing programs that are accountable, effective, and efficient. mr. speaker, i want to thank senator lankford for his work on the senate companion bill. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this legislation. ms. norton. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, the taxpayers right-to-know act builds upon two existing laws that came through our committee: the government performance and results modernization act of 2010 and the data act, which was signed into law in 2014. the obama administration launched the performance.gov web site to implement the gpra modernization act, and this bill would enhance the information available through that web site. the bill would require the office of management and budget to make available on a central web site an inventory of all federal agency programs that have a budget authority of more than $1 million. the bill also would require omb to include on this web site links to any evaluation, assessment, or program performance reviews by an agency, an inspector general, or the government accountability office released during the preceding 5 years. the taxpayers right-to-know act would require agencies to disclose how much agency staff are administering each covered program, as well as other individuals whose salary is paid by the government through a contract, grant, or other agreement. the office of management and budget raised serious concerns about its ability to implement the requirements of the bill as it was reported by the committee. i want to thank the chairman for making changes to help address those concerns in the amended version of the bill before us today. it is important that we continue to work together to ensure the bill will work as intended. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. chaffetz. mr. speaker, this is a good bipartisan, bicameral bill. again, i thank the good work of our colleague mr. walberg in helping to champion this through, the good work on both sides of the aisle in a bipartisan, bicameral way. i urge its passage. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from utah (mr. chaffetz) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 598, as amended. the question was taken. the speaker pro tempore. in the opinion of the chair, two-thirds being in the affirmative, the ayes have it. mr. chaffetz. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this motion will be postponed. ____________________