[congressional record volume 170, number 48 (tuesday, march 19, 2024)] [house] [pages h1201-h1203] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] {time} 1600 condemning the illegal abduction of children from ukraine to the russian federation mrs. wagner. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and agree to the resolution (h. res. 149) condemning the illegal abduction of children from ukraine to the russian federation, as amended. the clerk read the title of the resolution. the text of the resolution is as follows: h. res. 149 whereas, on january 12, 1951, the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide (commonly known as the ``genocide convention''), of which the russian federation is a party, came into effect; whereas, on february 24, 2022, the russian federation escalated its eight-year-long occupation of sovereign ukrainian territory by launching an unprovoked large-scale invasion of ukraine; whereas, on march 9, 2022, russian forces attacked a maternity hospital in mariupol, ukraine, resulting in the deaths of 5 individuals and injuries to 17 other individuals; whereas, on march 22, 2022, the ukrainian foreign ministry announced that the russian military had illegally abducted and forcibly transferred 2,389 ukrainian children from temporarily occupied areas of ukraine; whereas, on june 2, 2022, ukrainian president volodymyr zelenskyy stated that 200,000 children are among the ukrainians who have been forcibly transferred to russia; whereas forcibly transferring children of one group to another group is a violation of article ii(e) of the genocide convention; whereas maria lvova-belova, children's rights commissioner for the president of russia, admitted to abducting and forcibly transferring ukrainian children and facilitating forced adoptions to russian families; whereas ukrainian authorities have stated that a number of the abducted and forcibly transferred ukrainian children have families who remain in ukraine, but have been separated due to the renewed russian invasion; whereas, on june 16, 2022, russian authorities announced that children born in occupied ukrainian territories after the february 24, 2022, invasion will be deemed russian citizens; [[page h1202]] whereas, on june 22, 2022, the united nations human rights office of the high commissioner verified that at least 320 children have been killed since russia's renewed invasion began; whereas, on july 11, 2022, united nations secretary general antonio guterres ordered an investigation into the deaths and injuries of ukrainian children; and whereas, on july 13, 2022, secretary of state antony j. blinken issued a statement calling upon russia to ``immediately halt its systemic filtration operations in ukraine'', which have caused the disappearance, detention, or forcible deportation of between 900,000 and 1,600,000 ukrainians (approximately 260,000 of whom are children): now, therefore, be it resolved, that the house of representatives-- (1) declares that the abduction and forcible transfer of children and facilitation of illegal adoptions is contrary to russia's obligations under the genocide convention and amounts to genocide; (2) further declares that the russian federation is attempting to wipe out a generation of ukrainian children, thereby crippling ukraine's ability to nurture the next generation of ukrainian citizens and leaders and to rebuild their country after russia's unprovoked war, with the purpose of demolishing ukraine's unique language, culture, history, and identity; (3) notes with concern that the invasion of ukraine by the russian federation has significantly increased the risks of children being exposed to human trafficking and exploitation, child labor, gender-based violence, hunger, injury, trauma, deprivation of education and shelter, and death; and (4) holds the government of the russian federation, under the leadership of vladimir putin, responsible for the wrongful and illegal abduction and forcible transfer of children from ukraine and officially condemns these actions in the strongest terms. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentlewoman from missouri (mrs. wagner) and the gentlewoman from pennsylvania (ms. wild) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from missouri. general leave mrs. wagner. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on this measure. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentlewoman from missouri? there was no objection. mrs. wagner. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, since the beginning of russia's unprovoked war against ukraine, we continue to witness unspeakable acts perpetrated by vladimir putin's forces. since the start of the war, ukrainian officials estimate that over 120,000 war crimes have been committed by lawless russian invaders. one of the most horrific acts being conducted by the putin regime is the kidnapping of ukrainian children to russia and occupied territories. since february 2022, more than 19,000 children have been forcibly deported from their homeland--possibly many, many more. ukraine's ambassador to the united nations has stated that: ``ukraine has strong grounds to believe that several hundred thousand ukrainian children were forcibly, unlawfully taken.'' not only have these children been kidnapped and handed over to russian families, but they have also been forced into pro-russia reeducation systems. they are being brainwashed, taught to hate their home country and to love their oppressors, russia. kidnapped ukrainian children are being taught that ukraine does not exist as a sovereign country and that russia is conducting some sort of justified mission for mankind. additionally, if they do not comply or fall in line, these children face punishment and abuse. russia's depravity gets even more twisted, mr. speaker. there are reports that kidnapped ukrainian teenagers are being conscripted to fight in ukraine on behalf of the russian federation. ukrainian officials say russia's efforts specifically target teenagers so that they can be turned into soldiers once they reach the age of 18. vladimir putin and his commissioner for children's rights, maria lvova-belova, can claim all they want that they are saving these children, but we know their true intent--the complete eradication of ukrainian culture and identity. both u.s. statute and international law define genocide as acts committed with intent to destroy a people, in whole or in part, including forcibly transferring children of the group to another group. i was proud to join my colleague from pennsylvania, representative wild, in introducing the resolution before us today. it rightfully condemns this barbarism and calls it what it is: genocide. we were there together on the ukrainian border. we were there and saw ukrainian refugees and children who have suffered this kind of abuse at the hands of vladimir putin. mr. speaker, during our markup, this resolution received unanimous bipartisan support from the foreign affairs committee. today, the entire house has the opportunity and the moral duty to denounce russia's genocide against these children of ukraine. mr. speaker, i thank my good friend, representative wild, for shedding light on these heartbreaking abuses. mr. speaker, i urge all of our colleagues to support this important resolution, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. wild. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise in strong support of h. res. 149. i introduced this resolution on behalf of my district, which counts one of the country's largest ukrainian-american communities. together, we have advocated and organized for this moment, and i recognize my ukrainian- american constituents and all the extraordinary ukrainian-american leaders whose tireless efforts led to this legislation coming to the floor of the house for a vote. i also remember the time that representative wagner and i and a couple of other members of the foreign affairs committee stood right at the border of ukraine on the poland side and watched as children and mothers streamed across the border. it was tragic and really hard to watch, but those were the fortunate children, as we have learned. far too many ukrainian children have been abducted to russia. this vote is about sending an unequivocal message to vladimir putin that we stand with the ukrainian people and that we will not stop working for justice and accountability when it comes to the atrocities that russian forces have systemically employed in this war of aggression. we must be clear. russian forces have engaged in an effort to destroy ukraine's democracy, its sovereignty, its territorial integrity, and, ultimately, its identity itself. their crimes against children stand out as the most heinous aspect of a much larger strategy, a relentless campaign of state violence against the most vulnerable members of ukrainian society. as part of this effort, russian forces have abducted and forcibly relocated thousands of ukrainian children to russian-occupied and affiliated areas in blatant violation of article ii(e) of the genocide convention. the russian objective is clear: to eradicate the young generations of the ukrainians by attempting to destroy their sense of national and cultural identity. we cannot be silent in the face of these violations of ukrainians' most fundamental rights and dignity. mr. speaker, i thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for working to pass this legislation unanimously through the foreign affairs committee. finally, as meaningful as this vote is to me and my constituents, i call on the leadership of this house to hold an even more consequential vote. mr. speaker, the people's representatives must be able to vote on the senate's supplemental package containing critical assistance for ukraine as well as humanitarian assistance for the people of ukraine, for the palestinian people, and for so many other populations around the world who are in dire need of assistance. we must come together in support of this national and global priority. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to think about the ukrainian americans across this country whose relatives in ukraine are facing a relentless campaign of aggression simply because of their unrelenting quest for a democratic ukrainian state. we must stand with them. we must stand with the next generation of ukrainians and ensure that they are able to continue their proud legacy. as a people, ukrainians have endured despite extraordinary hardship experienced across generations. today, they are fighting for their future as a sovereign, independent democracy whose [[page h1203]] freedom has been hard-won and is imperiled today. together, let us join in passing this resolution here on the floor of the house of representatives by a resounding bipartisan margin, and let us work toward passing the assistance for the ukrainian people that they so urgently need. mr. speaker, i hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this resolution, and i yield back the balance of my time. mrs. wagner. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. speaker, vladimir putin's barbarism knows no bounds. the actions of his lawless forces against the people of ukraine, including the forcible deportation of innocent ukrainian children, constitute genocide. we have the opportunity to state that truth plainly today and to stand with the grieving families of ukraine whose children are still kidnapped inside russia. mr. speaker, i urge unanimous support for this resolution, and i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentlewoman from missouri (mrs. wagner) that the house suspend the rules and agree to the resolution, h. res. 149, as amended. the question was taken. the speaker pro tempore. in the opinion of the chair, two-thirds being in the affirmative, the ayes have it. mrs. wagner. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this motion will be postponed. ____________________