[congressional record volume 162, number 18 (monday, february 1, 2016)] [house] [pages h387-h394] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] international megan's law to prevent demand for child sex trafficking mr. smith of new jersey. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and concur in the senate amendments to the bill (h.r. 515) to protect children from exploitation, especially sex trafficking in tourism, by providing advance notice of intended travel by registered child-sex offenders outside the united states to the government of the country of destination, requesting foreign governments to notify the united states when a known child-sex offender is seeking to enter the united states, and for other purposes. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the senate amendments is as follows: senate amendments: strike out all after the enacting clause and insert: section 1. short title and table of contents. (a) short title.--this act may be cited as the ``international megan's law to prevent child exploitation and other sexual crimes through advanced notification of traveling sex offenders''. (b) table of contents.--the table of contents for this act is as follows: sec. 1. short title and table of contents. sec. 2. findings. sec. 3. definitions. sec. 4. angel watch center. sec. 5. notification by the united states marshals service. sec. 6. international travel. sec. 7. reciprocal notifications. sec. 8. unique passport identifiers for covered sex offenders. sec. 9. implementation plan. sec. 10. technical assistance. sec. 11. authorization of appropriations. sec. 12. rule of construction. sec. 2. findings. congress finds the following: (1) megan nicole kanka, who was 7 years old, was abducted, sexually assaulted, and murdered in 1994, in the state of new jersey by a violent predator living across the street from her home. unbeknownst to megan kanka and her family, he had been convicted previously of a sex offense against a child. (2) in 1996, congress adopted megan's law (public law 104- 145) as a means to encourage states to protect children by identifying the whereabouts of sex offenders and providing the means to monitor their activities. (3) in 2006, congress passed the adam walsh child protection and safety act of 2006 (public law 109-248) to protect children and the public at large by establishing a comprehensive national system for the registration and notification to the public and law enforcement officers of convicted sex offenders. (4) law enforcement reports indicate that known child-sex offenders are traveling internationally. (5) the commercial sexual exploitation of minors in child sex trafficking and pornography is a global phenomenon. the international labour organization has estimated that 1,8000,000 children worldwide are victims of child sex trafficking and pornography each year. (6) child sex tourism, where an individual travels to a foreign country and engages in sexual activity with a child in that country, is a form of child exploitation and, where commercial, child sex trafficking. sec. 3. definitions. in this act: (1) center.--the term ``center'' means the angel watch center established pursuant to section 4(a). (2) convicted.--the term ``convicted'' has the meaning given the term in section 111 of the adam walsh child protection and safety act of 2006 (42 u.s.c. 16911). (3) covered sex offender.--except as otherwise provided, the term ``covered sex offender'' means an individual who is a sex offender by reason of having been convicted of a sex offense against a minor. (4) destination country.--the term ``destination country'' means a destination or transit country. (5) interpol.--the term ``interpol'' means the international criminal police organization. (6) jurisdiction.--the term ``jurisdiction'' means-- (a) a state; (b) the district of columbia; (c) the commonwealth of puerto rico; (d) guam; (e) american samoa; (f) the northern mariana islands; (g) the united states virgin islands; and (h) to the extent provided in, and subject to the requirements of, section 127 of the adam walsh child protection and safety act of 2006 (42 u.s.c. 16927), a federally recognized indian tribe. (7) minor.--the term ``minor'' means an individual who has not attained the age of 18 years. (8) national sex offender registry.--the term ``national sex offender registry'' means the national sex offender registry established by section 119 of the adam walsh child protection and safety act of 2006 (42 u.s.c. 16919). (9) sex offender under sorna.--the term ``sex offender under sorna'' has the meaning given the term ``sex offender'' in section 111 of the adam walsh child protection and safety act of 2006 (42 u.s.c. 16911). (10) sex offense against a minor.-- (a) in general.--the term ``sex offense against a minor'' means a specified offense against a minor, as defined in section 111 of the adam walsh child protection and safety act of 2006 (42 u.s.c. 16911). (b) other offenses.--the term ``sex offense against a minor'' includes a sex offense described in section 111(5)(a) of the adam walsh child protection and safety act of 2006 (42 u.s.c. 16911(5)(a)) that is a specified offense against a minor, as defined in paragraph (7) of such section, or an attempt or conspiracy to commit such an offense. (c) foreign convictions; offenses involving consensual sexual conduct.--the limitations contained in subparagraphs (b) and (c) of section 111(5) of the adam walsh child protection and safety act of 2006 (42 u.s.c. 16911(5)) shall apply with respect to a sex offense against a minor for purposes of this act to the same extent and in the same manner as such limitations apply with respect to a sex offense for purposes of the adam walsh child protection and safety act of 2006. sec. 4. angel watch center. (a) establishment.--not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of homeland security shall establish within the child exploitation investigations unit of u.s. immigrations and customs enforcement a center, to be known as the ``angel watch center'', to carry out the activities specified in subsection (e). (b) incoming notification.-- (1) in general.--the center may receive incoming notifications concerning individuals seeking to enter the united states who have committed offenses of a sexual nature. (2) notification.--upon receiving an incoming notification under paragraph (1), the center shall-- (a) immediately share all information received relating to the individual with the department of justice; and (b) share all relevant information relating to the individual with other federal, state, and local agencies and entities, as appropriate. (3) collaboration.--the secretary of homeland security shall collaborate with the attorney general to establish a process for the receipt, dissemination, and categorization of information relating to individuals and specific offenses provided herein. (c) leadership.--the center shall be headed by the assistant secretary of u.s. immigration and customs enforcement, in collaboration with the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection and in consultation with the attorney general and the secretary of state. (d) members.--the center shall consist of the following: (1) the assistant secretary of u.s. immigration and customs enforcement. (2) the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection. (3) individuals who are designated as analysts in u.s. immigration and customs enforcement or u.s. customs and border protection. [[page h388]] (4) individuals who are designated as program managers in u.s. immigration and customs enforcement or u.s. customs and border protection. (e) activities.-- (1) in general.--in carrying out this section, the center shall, using all relevant databases, systems and sources of information, not later than 48 hours before scheduled departure, or as soon as practicable before scheduled departure-- (a) determine if individuals traveling abroad are listed on the national sex offender registry; (b) review the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center case management system or other system that provides access to a list of individuals who have provided advanced notice of international travel to identify any individual who meets the criteria described in subparagraph (a) and is not in a system reviewed pursuant to this subparagraph; and (c) provide a list of individuals identified under subparagraph (b) to the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center to determine compliance with title i of the adam walsh child protection and safety act of 2006 (42 u.s.c. 16901 et seq.). (2) provision of information to center.--twenty-four hours before the intended travel, or thereafter, not later than 72 hours after the intended travel, the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center shall provide, to the angel watch center, information pertaining to any sex offender described in subparagraph (c) of paragraph (1). (3) advance notice to destination country.-- (a) in general.--the center may transmit relevant information to the destination country about a sex offender if-- (i) the individual is identified by a review conducted under paragraph (1)(b) as having provided advanced notice of international travel; or (ii) after completing the activities described in paragraph (1), the center receives information pertaining to a sex offender under paragraph (2). (b) exceptions.--the center may immediately transmit relevant information on a sex offender to the destination country if-- (i) the center becomes aware that a sex offender is traveling outside of the united states within 24 hours of intended travel, and simultaneously completes the activities described in paragraph (1); or (ii) the center has not received a transmission pursuant to paragraph (2), provided it is not more than 24 hours before the intended travel. (c) corrections.--upon receiving information that a notification sent by the center regarding an individual was inaccurate, the center shall immediately-- (i) send a notification of correction to the destination country notified; (ii) correct all data collected pursuant to paragraph (6); and (iii) if applicable, notify the secretary of state for purposes of the passport review and marking processes described in section 240 of public law 110-457. (d) form.--the notification under this paragraph may be transmitted through such means as are determined appropriate by the center, including through u.s. immigration and customs enforcement attaches. (4) memorandum of agreement.--not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of homeland security shall enter into a memorandum of agreement with the attorney general to facilitate the activities of the angel watch center in collaboration with the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center, including the exchange of information, the sharing of personnel, access to information and databases in accordance with paragraph (1)(b), and the establishment of a process to share notifications from the international community in accordance with subsection (b)(1). (5) passport application review.-- (a) in general.--the center shall provide a written determination to the department of state regarding the status of an individual as a covered sex offender (as defined in section 240 of public law 110-457) when appropriate. (b) effective date.--subparagraph (a) shall take effect upon certification by the secretary of state, the secretary of homeland security, and the attorney general that the process developed and reported to the appropriate congressional committees under section 9 has been successfully implemented. (6) collection of data.--the center shall collect all relevant data, including-- (a) a record of each notification sent under paragraph (3); (b) the response of the destination country to notifications under paragraph (3), where available; (c) any decision not to transmit a notification abroad, to the extent practicable; (d) the number of transmissions made under subparagraphs (a),(b), and (c) of paragraph (3) and the countries to which they are transmitted, respectively; (e) whether the information was transmitted to the destination country before scheduled commencement of sex offender travel; and (f) any other information deemed necessary and appropriate by the secretary of homeland security. (7) complaint review.-- (a) in general.--the center shall-- (i) establish a mechanism to receive complaints from individuals affected by erroneous notifications under this section; (ii) ensure that any complaint is promptly reviewed; and (iii) in the case of a complaint that involves a notification sent by another federal government entity, notify the individual of the contact information for the appropriate entity and forward the complaint to the appropriate entity for prompt review and response pursuant to this section. (b) response to complaints.--the center shall, as applicable-- (i) provide the individual with notification in writing that the individual was erroneously subjected to international notification; (ii) take action to ensure that a notification or information regarding the individual is not erroneously transmitted to a destination country in the future; and (iii) submit an additional written notification to the individual explaining why a notification or information regarding the individual was erroneously transmitted to the destination country and describing the actions that the center has taken or is taking under clause (ii). (c) public awareness.--the center shall make publicly available information on how an individual may submit a complaint under this section. (d) reporting requirement.--the secretary of homeland security shall submit an annual report to the appropriate congressional committees (as defined in section 9) that includes-- (i) the number of instances in which a notification or information was erroneously transmitted to the destination country of an individual under paragraph (3); and (ii) the actions taken to prevent similar errors from occurring in the future. (8) annual review process.--the center shall establish, in coordination with the attorney general, the secretary of state, and interpol, an annual review process to ensure that there is appropriate coordination and collaboration, including consistent procedures governing the activities authorized under this act, in carrying out this act. (9) information required.--the center shall make available to the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center information on travel by sex offenders in a timely manner. (f) definition.--in this section, the term ``sex offender'' means-- (1) a covered sex offender; or (2) an individual required to register under the sex offender registration program of any jurisdiction or included in the national sex offender registry, on the basis of an offense against a minor. sec. 5. notification by the united states marshals service. (a) in general.--the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center may-- (1) transmit notification of international travel of a sex offender to the destination country of the sex offender, including to the visa-issuing agent or agents in the united states of the country; (2) share information relating to traveling sex offenders with other federal, state, local, and foreign agencies and entities, as appropriate; (3) receive incoming notifications concerning individuals seeking to enter the united states who have committed offenses of a sexual nature and shall share the information received immediately with the department of homeland security; and (4) perform such other functions at the attorney general or the director of the united states marshals service may direct. (b) consistent notification.--in making notifications under subsection (a)(1), the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center shall, to the extent feasible and appropriate, ensure that the destination country is consistently notified in advance about sex offenders under sorna identified through their inclusion in sex offender registries of jurisdictions or the national sex offender registry. (c) information required.--for purposes of carrying out this act, the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center shall-- (1) make the case management system or other system that provides access to a list of individuals who have provided advanced notice of international travel available to the angel watch center; (2) provide the angel watch center a determination of compliance with title i of the adam walsh child protection and safety act of 2006 (42 u.s.c. 16901 et seq.) for the list of individuals transmitted under section 4(e)(1)(c); (3) make available to the angel watch center information on travel by sex offenders in a timely manner; and (4) consult with the department of state regarding operation of the international notification program authorized under this act. (d) corrections.--upon receiving information that a notification sent by the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center regarding an individual was inaccurate, the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center shall immediately-- (1) send a notification of correction to the destination country notified; (2) correct all data collected in accordance with subsection (f); and (3) if applicable, send a notification of correction to the angel watch center. (e) form.--the notification under this section may be transmitted through such means as are determined appropriate by the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center, including through the interpol notification system and through federal bureau of investigation legal attaches. (f) collection of data.--the attorney general shall collect all relevant data, including-- (1) a record of each notification sent under subsection (a); (2) the response of the destination country to notifications under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), where available; [[page h389]] (3) any decision not to transmit a notification abroad, to the extent practicable; (4) the number of transmissions made under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) and the countries to which they are transmitted; (5) whether the information was transmitted to the destination country before scheduled commencement of sex offender travel; and (6) any other information deemed necessary and appropriate by the attorney general. (g) complaint review.-- (1) in general.--the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center shall-- (a) establish a mechanism to receive complaints from individuals affected by erroneous notifications under this section; (b) ensure that any complaint is promptly reviewed; and (c) in the case of a complaint that involves a notification sent by another federal government entity, notify the individual of the contact information for the appropriate entity and forward the complaint to the appropriate entity for prompt review and response pursuant to this section. (2) response to complaints.--the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center shall, as applicable-- (a) provide the individual with notification in writing that the individual was erroneously subjected to international notification; (b) take action to ensure that a notification or information regarding the individual is not erroneously transmitted to a destination country in the future; and (c) submit an additional written notification to the individual explaining why a notification or information regarding the individual was erroneously transmitted to the destination country and describing the actions that the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center has taken or is taking under subparagraph (b). (3) public awareness.--the united states marshals service's national sex offender targeting center shall make publicly available information on how an individual may submit a complaint under this section. (4) reporting requirement.--the attorney general shall submit an annual report to the appropriate congressional committees (as defined in section 9) that includes-- (a) the number of instances in which a notification or information was erroneously transmitted to the destination country of an individual under subsection (a); and (b) the actions taken to prevent similar errors from occurring in the future. (h) definition.--in this section, the term ``sex offender'' means-- (1) a sex offender under sorna; or (2) a person required to register under the sex offender registration program of any jurisdiction or included in the national sex offender registry. sec. 6. international travel. (a) requirement that sex offenders provide international travel related information to sex offender registries.-- section 114 of the adam walsh child protection and safety act of 2006 (42 u.s.c. 16914) is amended-- (1) in subsection (a)-- (a) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and; (b) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following: ``(7) information relating to intended travel of the sex offender outside the united states, including any anticipated dates and places of departure, arrival, or return, carrier and flight numbers for air travel, destination country and address or other contact information therein, means and purpose of travel, and any other itinerary or other travel- related information required by the attorney general.''; and (2) by adding at the end the following: ``(c) time and manner.--a sex offender shall provide and update information required under subsection (a), including information relating to intended travel outside the united states required under paragraph (7) of that subsection, in conformity with any time and manner requirements prescribed by the attorney general.''. (b) conforming amendments to section 2250 of title 18, united states code.--section 2250 of title 18, united states code, is amended-- (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) and (d), respectively; (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following: ``(b) international travel reporting violations.--whoever-- ``(1) is required to register under the sex offender registration and notification act (42 u.s.c. 16901 et seq.); ``(2) knowingly fails to provide information required by the sex offender registration and notification act relating to intended travel in foreign commerce; and ``(3) engages or attempts to engage in the intended travel in foreign commerce; shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both.''; and (3) in subsections (c) and (d), as redesignated, by striking ``subsection (a)'' each place it appears and inserting ``subsection (a) or (b)''. (c) implementation.--in carrying out this act, and the amendments made by this act, the attorney general may use the resources and capacities of any appropriate agencies of the department of justice, including the office of sex offender sentencing, monitoring, apprehending, registering, and tracking, the united states marshals service, interpol washington-u.s. national central bureau, the federal bureau of investigation, the criminal division, and the united states attorneys' offices. sec. 7. reciprocal notifications. it is the sense of congress that the secretary of state, in consultation with the attorney general and the secretary of homeland security, should seek reciprocal international agreements or arrangements to further the purposes of this act and the sex offender registration and notification act (42 u.s.c. 16901 et seq.). such agreements or arrangements may establish mechanisms and undertakings to receive and transmit notices concerning international travel by sex offenders, through the angel watch center, the interpol notification system, and such other means as may be appropriate, including notification by the united states to other countries relating to the travel of sex offenders from the united states, reciprocal notification by other countries to the united states relating to the travel of sex offenders to the united states, and mechanisms to correct and, as applicable, remove from any other records, any inaccurate information transmitted through such notifications. sec. 8. unique passport identifiers for covered sex offenders. (a) amendment to public law 110-457.--title ii of public law 110-457 is amended by adding at the end the following: ``sec. 240. unique passport identifiers for covered sex offenders. ``(a) in general.--immediately after receiving a written determination from the angel watch center that an individual is a covered sex offender, through the process developed for that purpose under section 9 of the international megan's law to prevent child exploitation and other sexual crimes through advanced notification of traveling sex offenders, the secretary of state shall take appropriate action under subsection (b). ``(b) authority to use unique passport identifiers.-- ``(1) in general.--except as provided under paragraph (2), the secretary of state shall not issue a passport to a covered sex offender unless the passport contains a unique identifier, and may revoke a passport previously issued without such an identifier of a covered sex offender. ``(2) authority to reissue.--notwithstanding paragraph (1), the secretary of state may reissue a passport that does not include a unique identifier if an individual described in subsection (a) reapplies for a passport and the angel watch center provides a written determination, through the process developed for that purpose under section 9 of the international megan's law to prevent child exploitation and other sexual crimes through advanced notification of traveling sex offenders, to the secretary of state that the individual is no longer required to register as a covered sex offender. ``(c) defined terms.--in this section-- ``(1) the term `covered sex offender' means an individual who-- ``(a) is a sex offender, as defined in section 4(f) of the international megan's law to prevent child exploitation and other sexual crimes through advanced notification of traveling sex offenders; and ``(b) is currently required to register under the sex offender registration program of any jurisdiction; ``(2) the term `unique identifier' means any visual designation affixed to a conspicuous location on the passport indicating that the individual is a covered sex offender; and ``(3) the term `passport' means a passport book or passport card. ``(d) prohibition.--the secretary of state, the secretary of homeland security, and the attorney general, and their agencies, officers, employees, and agents, shall not be liable to any person for any action taken under this section. ``(e) disclosure.--in furtherance of this section, the secretary of state may require a passport applicant to disclose that they are a registered sex offender. ``(f) effective date.--this section shall take effect upon certification by the secretary of state, the secretary of homeland security, and the attorney general, that the process developed and reported to the appropriate congressional committees under section 9 of the international megan's law to prevent child exploitation and other sexual crimes through advanced notification of traveling sex offenders has been successfully implemented.''. sec. 9. implementation plan. (a) in general.--not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of homeland security, the secretary of state, and the attorney general shall develop a process by which to implement section 4(e)(5) and the provisions of section 240 of public law 110-457, as added by section 8 of this act. (b) reporting requirement.--not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of homeland security, the secretary of state, and the attorney general shall jointly submit a report to, and shall consult with, the appropriate congressional committees on the process developed under subsection (a), which shall include a description of the proposed process and a timeline and plan for implementation of that process, and shall identify the resources required to effectively implement that process. (c) ``appropriate congressional committees'' defined.--in this section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means-- (1) the committee on foreign relations of the senate; (2) the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives; (3) the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate; (4) the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives; (5) the committee on the judiciary of the senate; [[page h390]] (6) the committee on the judiciary of the house of representatives; (7) the committee on appropriations of the senate; and (8) the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives. sec. 10. technical assistance. the secretary of state, in consultation with the attorney general and the secretary of homeland security, may provide technical assistance to foreign authorities in order to enable such authorities to participate more effectively in the notification program system established under this act. sec. 11. authorization of appropriations. there are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this act $6,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 and 2018. sec. 12. rule of construction. nothing in this act shall be construed to limit international information sharing or law enforcement cooperation relating to any person pursuant to any authority of the department of justice, the department of homeland security, or any other department or agency. amend the title so as to read: ``an act to protect children and others from sexual abuse and exploitation, including sex trafficking and sex tourism, by providing advance notice of intended travel by registered sex offenders outside the united states to the government of the country of destination, requesting foreign governments to notify the united states when a known sex offender is seeking to enter the united states, and for other purposes.''. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from new jersey (mr. smith) and the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. brendan f. boyle) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from new jersey. general leave mr. smith of new jersey. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to include extraneous materials on this measure. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from new jersey? there was no objection. mr. smith of new jersey. i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, child predators thrive on secrecy, a secrecy that allows them to commit heinous crimes against the weakest and most vulnerable. today the house has under consideration h.r. 515, the international megan's law to prevent child exploitation and other sexual crimes through advanced notification of traveling sex offenders, a law that will significantly thwart child sexual exploitation in the united states and abroad through a comprehensive and efficient system that warns law enforcement of traveling sex offenders. mr. speaker, i first introduced international megan's law back in 2008. it has passed the house three times--2010, 2014, 2015--and, thankfully, passed the united states senate in december. international megan's law honors the memory of megan kanka, a precious little girl from my hometown of hamilton who suffered and died at the hands of a sexual predator. megan was just 7 years old when she was kidnapped, raped, and brutally murdered in 1994. her assailant lived across the street. unbeknownst to her family and other residents in the neighborhood, he was a convicted repeat sex offender. due to the extraordinary work by megan's courageous parents, maureen and richard kanka, the new jersey state legislature passed and the governor signed the original megan's law in 1994 and expanded it in 2001. it requires registration and public notification of convicted sex offenders living in the community. today all 50 states and all u.s. territories have a megan's law. because of this law, parents, guardians, universities, school officials, sports coaches, law enforcement, and the public at large are now empowered with the critical information they need to mitigate harm to children. we know from law enforcement and media documentation that americans on the u.s. sex offender registries are caught sexually abusing children in asia, central and south america, europe, and, frankly, everywhere. a deeply disturbing 2010 report by the gao found that at least 4,500 u.s. passports were issued to registered sex offenders in fiscal year 2008 alone. typically, mr. speaker, a passport is valid for 10 years, meaning some or many of the tens of thousands of registered sex offenders possessing passports may be on the prowl internationally looking to exploit and abuse. ernie allen, who served for 30 years as the president and ceo of the center for missing and exploited children and the international centre for missing and exploited children, recently said: ``it is clear that there is a substantial category of offenders who do not offend as a lapse of judgment; they do it as a lifestyle. and these are the offenders who are most likely to travel to seek victims in places where the offender is most likely to be anonymous and most likely to avoid identification and apprehension.'' studies suggest and demonstrate that even when caught, prosecuted, and jailed, for a number of predators, the propensity to recommit these crimes at a later date remains. for example, a 2008 study by oliver, wong, and nicholaichuk showed that untreated sex offenders were reconvicted for sexual crimes at a rate of 17.7 percent after 3 years, 24.5 percent after 5 years, and 32 percent after 10 years. keep in mind, mr. speaker, that these are just the rates for those who were caught again and then convicted. pedophiles and other sexual predators often harm more than one victim. there are different studies that showed large numbers of child victims and large numbers of acts committed against those children. for every victim who reports, there are likely many others who could not, would not, and cannot come forward. mr. speaker, some of those exploited children are prostituted by human traffickers to pedophiles. the international labour organization has estimated that 1.8 million children are victims of commercial sexual exploitation around the world each year. it is imperative that we take the lessons learned on how to protect our children from known child sex predators within our borders and expand those protections globally to prevent convicted u.s. sex offenders from harming children abroad. it is imperative that we teach other countries how to establish their own megan's law and push other countries to warn us in the united states when their sex offenders are traveling here. specifically, h.r. 515 will authorize and empower the angel watch center, operating under the auspices of immigration and customs enforcement, to check flight manifests against sex offender registries and quickly warn destination countries when sex offenders are headed their way. the angel watch center is authorized to send actual information about child sex offender travel to destination countries in a timely fashion for those countries to assess the potential damage and dangers to their kids and to respond appropriately, whether it is to deny entry or visa, monitor travel, or limit travel. to prevent offenders from thwarting international megan's law notification procedures by country hopping to an alternative destination not previously disclosed, h.r. 515 includes provisions for the state department to develop a passport identifier or, as we put it in the bill, ``any visual designation affixed to a conspicuous location on the passport indicating that the individual is a covered sex offender.'' a passport, mr. speaker, so identified provides law enforcement and customs an additional tool to protect children. the passport identifier is only for those who have been found guilty of a sex crime involving a child and have been deemed dangerous enough to be listed on a public sex offender registry. when this information is no longer public knowledge in the united states--in other words, they are off the registry--the passport identifier, in like manner, will no longer be required. it is worth noting that some states already require sex offenders to have their status listed on their driver's licenses--alabama, florida, delaware, and louisiana, to name a few. ironically, it has been reported that some registered sex offenders have used their passports as an id in order to keep their status secret. {time} 1630 mr. speaker, in order to protect potential victims, h.r. 515 also aims to establish a durable system of reciprocity among the nations of the world. international megan's law directs the secretary of state to seek agreements with other countries so that the u.s. is notified in advance of incoming sex offenders. [[page h391]] i would like to offer my profound appreciation, mr. speaker, to majority leader kevin mccarthy for his deep and abiding commitment to combating human trafficking in all of its ugly manifestations, for scheduling the house vote 12 months ago on international megan's law and another dozen or so anti-human trafficking measures sponsored by members from both sides of the aisle. that was historic and had never been done like that before. so i thank him for that leadership and for working closely with the senate in order to help bring this bill to fruition. his policy adviser, emily murry, was remarkable, as was and is kelly dixon. i would like to thank our distinguished chairman of the foreign affairs committee, ed royce, and ranking member eliot engel for their strong support for this bill and for the assistance of jessica kelch, doug anderson, and janice kaguyutan. janice will remember. she traveled with one of my staffers years ago investigating this terrible issue, which is a global scourge. senator bob corker, chairman of the foreign relations committee on the senate side, truly made this bill a priority and carried it over the finish line in the senate. thank you, senator. thank you, mr. chairman, for that. his professional staff, caleb mccarry and counsel sarah ramig, showed remarkable dedication and persistence through multiple interagency negotiations. his chief of staff, todd womack, and legislative director, rob strayer, skillfully guided the bill through the process on the senate side, and i cannot thank them enough. i also want to thank my good friend ben cardin--ben and i serve and have served for decades on the helsinki commission--for his support and for his efforts. i am grateful to senator richard shelby and senator barbara mikulski for their assistance and driving better angel watch center collaboration with the u.s. marshals service's sex offender targeting center. usms will be required to vet names sent out by the angel watch center and share previously vetted names with the center in order to maximize expertise, avoid duplication of efforts, and ensure accuracy of international notifications. i would note that senator shelby also championed the passport provisions that will ensure sex offenders with crimes against children cannot end-run the system. i would like to thank his professional staffer, shannon hines, who was extraordinarily smart and creative during this process. thanks to professional staffer jen deci as well as senator mikulski's staffer, jennifer eskra, for their tireless work as well. senator john cornyn, majority leader, did not rest on his success earlier this year in navigating the justice for victims of trafficking act through the senate, but persisted until international megan's law was complete over on the senate side. last, but not least, i would like to thank my chief of staff, mary noonan, who has been tenacious in guiding this bill past obstacle after obstacle, and allison hollabaugh, who worked energetically, effectively, and expertly with the agencies and other interested parties to achieve the final bill. i also would like to thank my former top foreign affairs committee staff member, sheri rickert, who spent countless hours over several years negotiating with disparate parties trying to achieve passage of the bill. those efforts, sheri, were not in vain. i would like to thank the national center for missing and exploited children for their strong endorsement of the bill, the international centre for missing and exploited children, ecpat-usa, and the family research council, for their input, counsel, and strong support. i again first introduced this bill in 2008, alongside megan kanka's parents, maureen and richard kanka. maureen and richard, mr. speaker, are heroic people. they have fought for decades to spare children and their families from horrific crimes that can and must be prevented. while they still carry deep emotional and psychological scars, maureen and richard's selflessness, love of others, and vision have protected countless children from harm. enactment of international megan's law will expand meaningful child protection at home and around the world, and i urge my colleagues to support it. i reserve the balance of my time. mr. brendan f. boyle of pennsylvania. mr. speaker, i yield myself as much time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise in support of this measure. let me first thank the gentleman from new jersey (mr. smith) for his leadership on human rights and anti-trafficking issues and for his hard work on international megan's law. i also want to thank the judiciary committee for its bipartisan input on this bill. this legislation is the product of a lot of hard work and reflects a commitment to advancing practical and effective ways to help those victimized by sexual predators. this is hard to believe, but around the world today there are tens of millions of victims of human trafficking, which is what we call modern- day slavery. many of these victims are children exploited in prostitution. in many countries, extreme poverty and gaps in law enforcement create zones of impunity where sex offenders exploit vulnerable children. sometimes local officials have no idea this is going on. sometimes they turn a blind eye, and sometimes officials are even complicit in this crime. we have a responsibility to protect all victims and to crack down on this crime that destabilizes communities, fuels corruption, and undermines the rule of law. international megan's law aims to prevent child sex offenders and traffickers from exploiting vulnerable children when they cross an international border. this bill would establish an angel watch center within ice-- immigration and customs enforcement--and provide advance notice to foreign governments when a convicted child sex offender travels to their country. this bill will hopefully prevent some of these horrific crimes from taking place. but, mr. speaker, fighting modern slavery requires a much more comprehensive response. beyond prevention, governments must do all they can to protect victims: robust identification efforts; policies and procedures that get victims out of harm's way; comprehensive support services that include physical and mental health care; education opportunities; legal assistance; reintegration with family and community; and, of course, aggressive investigations and prosecutions to go after those responsible for such heinous crimes. the reality is, the sad reality, is that no single government or single law will put an end to human trafficking. but every step we take strengthens our ability to prevent these crimes, protect victims, and punish those responsible. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support the senate amendment to h.r. 515. i reserve the balance of my time. mr. smith of new jersey. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from north carolina, (mr. pittenger), a member of the financial services committee who has been very active in the fight against human trafficking. mr. pittenger. chairman smith, thank you so much for your leadership on behalf of these individuals. thank you, chairman royce, for your strong leadership as well. mr. speaker, right now more than 20 million people worldwide are caught up in modern-day slavery. we call it human trafficking. this is not just a problem over there. in the city i represent-- charlotte--maria was trapped when she answered an ad for an aspiring actress. rosa was snatched from a local gas station while waiting for a ride. my good friend, antonia childs, dreamed of owning a bakery before falling victim to human trafficking. thankfully, antonia was rescued and now leads a vital charlotte organization rescuing women, including maria and rosa. as a nation, we must take responsibility for our part in this horrific, multi-billion-dollar illicit industry. as members of congress, we must take an active role in ending human trafficking worldwide. that is why, on january 22, 2015, i became an original cosponsor in support [[page h392]] of chairman smith's h.r. 515, the international megan's law to prevent child exploitation. h.r. 515 ensures foreign countries are notified when an american sex offender who has previously abused children is traveling to that country. it encourages foreign countries to provide us with the same vital information when a sex offender is traveling to america. it attacks the sickening practice of child sex tourism by requiring the united states to notify other countries when convicted pedophiles travel abroad. it encourages president obama to use bilateral agreements and assistance to establish reciprocal notification so that we will know when convicted child offenders are coming here. international megan's law takes valuable lessons we have learned about protecting our children here in the united states and expands those protections globally so all communities can join together to take the necessary steps to protect our children. please join me in taking this important step to end modern slavery today. mr. brendan f. boyle of pennsylvania. mr. speaker, i have no further speakers on our side. i reserve the balance of my time. mr. smith of new jersey. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from california (mr. royce), the distinguished chairman of the house committee on foreign affairs. mr. royce. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of h.r. 515, the international megan's law, focused on preventing demand for child sex trafficking. i really want to acknowledge the hard work by the member from new jersey (mr. smith), his perseverance here as the bill's author, as he has tried on several occasions to get this through the senate and to the president's desk. with this action today, this bill, when it passes the floor, will go to the president's desk. i think it is very important that we understand the magnitude of this problem, as he has tried to convey to us here, and how this is going to strengthen the hand of law enforcement. we want law enforcement to consider this a new tool. it will combat the appalling industry of child sex tourism, in which adults travel overseas to exploit children in other countries. my chief of staff, amy porter, has gone on several humanitarian missions to work with very young children in cambodia and elsewhere in south asia as well. as she shows you the photographs of these little girls exploited and traumatized by this predatory activity, it is hard to fathom that men from around the world, including america, including our country, engage in this predatory activity. while the countries they travel to lack the resources needed to deal with this rising number of child predators, this legislation is going to help us offset that. one of the most discouraging things that my chief of staff, amy, found was that, in cambodia, it was the local police chief who himself was involved in the practice. now, upon her return to again check on this, she found that they had put an end to that. he was no longer in this trade, in this type of business. it had been cleaned up some with pressure from the united states, but it is still ongoing. so this will help us fight back. the speaker pro tempore (mr. collins of new york). the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. smith of new jersey. i yield the gentleman 1 minute. mr. royce. at present, multiple u.s. government agencies are working to combat human trafficking and child sex tourism, but there has been a troubling lack of coordination and information sharing and notifications to foreign countries that a potential sexual criminal is heading their way, and those notifications are very inconsistent. this bill clarifies the responsibility, puts it on the justice department and the department of homeland security. it better coordinates those efforts. and, importantly, by proactively helping other countries to identify those incoming child predators, we will encourage them to alert us when foreigners convicted of sex offenses against children attempt to enter into the united states. {time} 1645 so i commend chairman smith for his work on this bipartisan legislation, and i encourage all members to support its passage. it will be on the president's desk here after our action this evening. mr. brendan f. boyle of pennsylvania. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from missouri (mrs. wagner). mrs. wagner. i thank the gentlemen for yielding. mr. speaker, i rise today in strong support of h.r. 515, the international megan's law to prevent demand for child sex trafficking. i would like to thank, like so many have, congressman chris smith for introducing this important legislation to protect innocent children from the evils of sexual predators in the united states and worldwide. as a mother who raised three beautiful children, i can tell you that the constant concern for their safety and protection never goes away. when they were young, i worried if they were safe at the playground down the street, if they were safe at the shopping mall or movie theater. named after a young girl who was kidnapped, raped, and murdered at just 7 years old by her neighbor, megan's law and public knowledge of predators in our communities have been critical tools in protecting our children and easing some of the many fears that parents feel every single day. i cannot fathom the anger and anguish felt by megan's parents and all parents whose children fall prey to such sick predators. i would do anything to protect my children and all children from sexual predators, and i feel blessed that i and my colleagues are in a position where we can make a difference. we will be able to better identify and scrutinize sex offenders' activity, ensuring that they do not engage in the ghastly practice of sex tourism either in our own neighborhood or any neighborhood around the world. the u.s. must take a leading role as a global defender of children from sexual abuse. often planning their trips around locations where the most vulnerable children can be found, sex offenders should not be allowed to use the anonymity provided by foreign travel to help hide their hideous crimes. a 2010 government accountability office report showed that in a single year, at least 4,500 registered sex offenders received u.s. passports to travel internationally. this is absolutely unacceptable, mr. speaker. during my time as a united states ambassador, i was exposed firsthand to the horrors of sexual abuse and human trafficking on the international level. the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentlewoman has expired. mr. brendan f. boyle of pennsylvania. mr. speaker, i yield the gentlewoman from missouri an additional 1 minute. mrs. wagner. mr. speaker, as elected members of congress, we must stand up for the powerless, and we must provide a voice for the voiceless. today we are doing just that. passing the international megan's law, which will provide advance notice of foreign travel by registered sex offenders, is critical. we owe it to the innocent angels like megan to take these crimes out of the shadows and do everything we can to prevent future crime both in the united states and across the globe. today i will vote to pass the international megan's law, and i encourage my colleagues to join me in providing protection for potential victims worldwide and greater peace of mind for those who love them. mr. brendan f. boyle of pennsylvania. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. smith of new jersey. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. speaker, i just want to say this is a bipartisan bill. it will save children's lives. it will prevent other crimes to victims like megan kanka from happening not just in the united states but around the world. i think my good friend, ann wagner, said a moment ago that megan is an angel. her parents are guardian angels. they have taken a pain, an agony, and a trauma that is incomprehensible and have worked tirelessly to get megan's [[page h393]] law enacted throughout the united states and in some other countries. this will take it to the next level and will establish that true reciprocal reciprocity regimen, whereby we notice, they notice, everybody knows what is going on to take the secrecy out of this travel when a convicted pedophile hops on a plane with the idea of exploiting children. this will have a very measurable impact and will protect children from this kind of agony. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. brendan f. boyle of pennsylvania. mr. speaker, to conclude, i second the comments that were made by mr. smith. i congratulate the family of megan kanka. being a father myself of a 2-year-old daughter, i cannot imagine losing a little girl, especially in the heinous way that they did. i remember very much when all of that happened. hamilton, new jersey, is only about 40 minutes up the road from where i live in philadelphia, and i remember the ugly incident very well. the fact that here we are, so many years later, and the family still continues to fight for other little girls and little boys is really remarkable and is a testament to them. i also congratulate the gentleman from new jersey (mr. smith), who i know has worked tirelessly on this bill for a long period of time. mr. speaker, i urge all my colleagues to support this piece of legislation. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. scott of virginia. mr. speaker, i rise in opposition to h.r. 515, international megan's law. while i support the underlying goal of ensuring that american law enforcement agencies share information on potential child sex offenders with foreign law enforcement agencies, i am opposed to how one particular provision, added in the senate amendment before us today, would work in practice. other existing provisions of the bill already contain the following information-sharing requirements with and among law enforcement agencies here in the united states and abroad: u.s. sex offenders are required to provide international travel- related information to the sex offender registries; the department of homeland security is required to create the angel watch center to receive information on individuals seeking to enter the u.s. who have committed offenses of a sexual nature as well as registered sex offenders seeking to travel outside the u.s. in order to share all relevant information to federal, state, and local law enforcement officials; the u.s. marshal's service is required to notify law enforcement agencies of sex offenders seeking to leave the united states who have not transmitted their travel information to sex offender registries; the u.s. marshal's service is required to notify the international destination country of a sex offender's upcoming travel; and the secretary of state should seek reciprocal international agreements or arrangements to further these goals. if our goal is to ensure that customs and border as well as law enforcement officials are notified so that they may track and investigate those sex offenders who may be engaging in sex tourism or pose a threat of absconding, these provisions have addressed those concerns. as a result, i am skeptical of what more we stand to gain by the senate amendment's provision authorizing the secretary of state to use a ``unique passport identifier for covered sex offenders'' that is defined as ``any visual designation affixed to a conspicuous location on the passport indicating the individual is a covered sex offender.'' at best, if this vague language is meant to describe some sort of code or symbol embedded in the passport that is only discernible by law enforcement at the border indicating that the traveler is a sex offender, it is redundant given the other information-sharing mandated by the bill's other provisions. however, if this is interpreted to mean something akin to the words ``sex offender'' stamped on the identification page of the passport, this raises serious problems and will lead to unintended consequences. first, it is simply bad policy to single out one category of offenses for this type of treatment. we do not subject those who murder, who defraud the government or our fellow citizens of millions and billions, or who commit acts of terrorism to these restrictions. second, by treating all sexual offenders as one monolithic group ignores reality. while some pose a continued and real risk of reoffending and may be traveling to engage in sex tourism or other illicit acts, not all pose the same risk. indeed, the failure of this provision to allow for the individualized consideration of the facts and circumstances surrounding the traveler's criminal history, including how much time has elapsed since his last offense, underscores how this provision is overbroad. details such as whether the traveler is a serial child rapist versus someone with a decades-old conviction from when he was 19-years-old and his girlfriend was 14, just missing the romeo and juliet exception by one year, are significant and would allow law enforcement to more appropriately prioritize their finite resources. third, a traveler does not have any recourse with the foreign destination country if he or she is refused entry solely on the basis of this ``unique passport identifier.'' while the bill has some due process provisions, those apply only domestically. there is no recourse if a traveler is erroneously denied entry from the destination country. fourth, if the ``unique passport identifier'' is implemented in a way that makes it obvious to not only law enforcement officials but any member of the general public viewing the passport, this could lead to unintended consequences of persecution and harm to the traveler. this is especially troubling given that no factual context about the offense is provided. if our goal is to ensure that domestic and foreign law enforcement and customs officials are notified of potential threats, multiple existing provisions of the bill already achieve that goal without raising these problematic implementation and fairness concerns. in summary, while i support the underlying goal of ensuring that american law enforcement agencies share information on potential child sex offenders with foreign law enforcement agencies, i have grave concerns about how the redundant and problematic provision regarding the ``unique passport identifier'', added as a senate amendment, would work in practice. therefore, i urge my colleagues to oppose the underlying bill. ms. jackson lee. mr. speaker, i stand in strong support of h.r. 515 because it seeks to protect our children from predators by identifying the whereabouts of sex offenders and providing means to monitor their activities. this legislation is important because sex trafficking of children is a displaceable act that we detest and has been an on-going concern for the united states. in addition to protecting our children from national threats, we must also consider the potential threat from international actors, especially during times of increased tourism, like for example the super bowl, fifa world cup, world olympics and other major events around the world where tourism is high. this legislation by my friend representative smith aims to protect our children from exploitation, specifically sex trafficking in tourism, by providing advance notice of intended travel by registered child-sex offenders outside of the united states to the government of the destination country. this legislation is important because it requests that foreign governments notify the united states when a known child-sex offender is seeking to enter the united states. international child exploitation is increasingly becoming a top priority for all nations and certainly is for our country. for instance, two years ago, during the fifa world cup in brazil, reports of child exploitation received global attention. according to the department of state, brazil is a destination country for children subjected to sex trafficking. for the case of brazil, child sex tourists typically arrive from europe and north america. according to reports, the rio de janeiro civil police identified eight hotels and restaurants involved in a child sexual exploitation network in two city areas. rio de janeiro, brazil, as you know, is where the world olympics will be hosted this summer. according to the huffington post, major sporting event usually lead to a spike in the demand for sexual predatory activities. unfortunately, these accounts of sexual predatory activity include child sex trafficking. here at home, during the 2014 super bowl week, the federal bureau of investigation, along with 50 law enforcement agencies, recovered 16 teenagers during an enforcement action on child sex trafficking. additionally, more than 45 pimps were arrested, some of whom claimed to travel to the super bowl location specifically for the purpose of prostituting women and children at the sporting event. according to judy kluger, director of sanctuary for families, and former judge for new york city criminal court of new york county, new york, ``the super bowl could never not be breeding grounds for sexual exploitation.'' if a location experiences an exponential increase in large numbers of men travelling for entertainment, it will proportionally see an increase in those who purchase sex. as you all know, i am committed to ensuring the protection of children, always championing the protection of children. as co-chair of the children's caucus, i commend the work of all my colleagues here in congress, dedicated to protecting children here in the u.s. and across the globe. [[page h394]] this is why i support this legislation and i commend representative smith for championing legislative measures dedicated to the safety and protection of our children worldwide. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from new jersey (mr. smith) that the house suspend the rules and concur in the senate amendments to the bill, h.r. 515. the question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the rules were suspended and the senate amendments were concurred in. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. ____________________