[congressional record volume 162, number 4 (thursday, january 7, 2016)] [house] [pages h112-h113] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] obama's executive action on guns the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from georgia (mr. westmoreland) for 5 minutes. mr. westmoreland. mr. speaker, i want to start my time by quoting directly the second amendment of our constitution: ``a well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.'' are not those beautiful and resounding words? as a man who likes to keep it simple, i appreciate the founding fathers not only for their foresight to protect the right to bear arms, but also how plain and simple they made it. the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed upon. unfortunately, i think our founding fathers spoke too plainly for certain people and certain presidents to understand. that president may always remind us that he taught constitutional law. sadly, i have yet to encounter someone in that position who disregards the constitution so regularly. not only does that president trample on the second amendment, but he would also trample on article i, which, as you know, is the congress and going through them to make laws. that president should have known that regulations regarding buying guns must come from legislation, not by an oral decree. that president tried to legislate in the senate several times, but his colleagues refused to do it, even though there was a majority. now that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are not in the majority in congress, i am assuming that this administration is deciding to create their own regulations--the constitution be damned-- because, sadly, there are no checks and balances anymore. we know even if congress passes a bill to repeal any type of order that any president makes, it would still have to go to that individual for the bill to be signed. so what are the chances of putting together a bill that some congress may have seen as an inappropriate action and then send it to the person that created that inappropriate action and expect him to sign it? i think, mr. speaker, one of the things that has so disappointed the american people is the inability to have their representatives voice their complaints and do their legislative responsibility with an out- of-control government. so each week, as the administration or a group is intent on disregarding the constitution, people become numb. the american people become numb to these illegal actions. i think it is time that we brought attention to some of these illegal actions that some presidents in the past and some presidents in the future may create. i think it is time that we bring these actions to the attention of the american people and let them know what our founding fathers had the intention to do originally, what they intended the constitution to mean, and how it was interpreted by those very first legislators: president washington, the supreme court, and others. they took this document as a simple document. it was very plainly written and read. but, unfortunately, we have had supreme courts, presidents, and legislative bodies that have tried to take these simple, basic words and turn them into something that they could use for their benefit, to try to change the way that this world works and how the laws they make are applied to our citizens. so, mr. speaker, we are going to try to do as much as we can in the near future to try to bring this to the attention of the american people and the world, because i think our constitution [[page h113]] has been a great cornerstone for this world and for any country that wants to have a republic, a democracy, and a people-driven form of government and to really feel that coat of liberty wrapped around them. i think our constitution is that. so i think it is time for us not only to make the citizens aware, but to make this whole world aware of what has been going on and what we are going to do to stop it. ____________________