washington, dc – today, rep s . scott peters (ca-50) , dan goldman (ny-10), and raja krishnamoorthi (il-8) introduced the stop excessive force in immigration act, a bill to make our communities safer by est ablishing a stronger standard for federal immigration ag ents' use of force. all law enforcement officers should be focused on upholding public safety . yet i n recent months the tactics of federal agents are more aggressive and dangerous , making everyone in our communities less safe . under president trump, federal agents have been captured using excessive force against non - violent am erican citizens , immigrants , journalists , protesters , priests , and others . there has been a significant increase in the careless use of harmful equipment like flash bangs , pepper balls , and tear gas . during a recent 60 minutes interview, president trump was asked about violent examples of immigra ti on e nf o rcemen t and stated that immigration raids have “not gone far enough.” “ in may, federal agents stormed into bu ona forch etta , a smal l , ne ighb or h ood rest auran t that was fi lled with families. they threw the owner against the wall, handcuffed all employees, and used flash-bang grenades on concerned bys tanders outside the restaurant . why t erroriz e law-abiding, hardworking people ? that mak es n o one safer ; i t makes americans less sa fe ,” sai d rep . peters. “ i mmigration enforcem ent should n ot be conducted by masked, unidentified agents usin g unchec ked force and aggressiv el y deploying tear ga s, peppe r balls, and flash bangs. we must curb excessive force and make it easier to identify officers acting improperly , while ensuring federal law enforcement can still apprehend those who pose a genuine threat to public safety and na t ional security .” "ice, cbp, and dhs agents must be held to the same constitutional standards as every other law enforcement officer,” said rep. krishnamoorthi . “yet each day of the trump administration's ‘operation midway blitz’ brings a new story of excessive force being used in chicago and its suburbs—from a faith leader shot with a pepperball while praying outside broadview to a reporter struck while documenting ice protests to my own constituents being terrorized for performing civilian oversight over dhs's actions. this unchecked aggression against civilians must stop. our stop excessive force in immigration act restores transparency and safeguards both the public and law enforcement by ensuring clear standards, mandatory body cameras, and a fundamental respect for basic rights.” "the images we’ve seen out of new york, california, and chicago are the result of a broken system that allows militarized immigration agents to abuse our neighbors and evade any form of accountability," said rep. goldman. "federal agents should never be storming peaceful communities with tear gas and flash bangs. the stop excessive force in immigration act will end these abuses by setting clear limits on force, banning dangerous crowd munitions, and requiring body cameras and identifiable uniforms. no one should fear masked agents without badges on the streets of our cities and neighborhoods. this bill restores transparency, accountability, and the basic principle that law enforcement must protect the people, not attack them.” "for months now, we all have seen how encounters with immigration enforcement mean chaos, violence, and trauma, regardless of immigration status. the stop excessive force in immigration act brings humanity and transparency into those moments. it limits the use of militarized force and ensures that agents are accountable to the communities in which they operate . every family deserves to feel safe. every life deserves dignity,” said angelica salas, executive director, coalition for humane immigrant rights (chirla). "masked agents endangering our people with unnecessary force is an affront to the principles of american democracy ,” said deborah weinstein, executive director, coalition on human needs. “ the coalition on human needs is proud to endorse the stop excessive force in immigration act and stands with rep. peters and co-sponsors in requiring accountability and careful restrictions on federal immigration officials' use of force." “ the trump administration’s reckless and indiscriminate immigration enforcement actions have stoked fear in communities across the country ,” said nick wilson, senior director of gun violence prevention policy, center for american progress. “ we welcome the introduction of the stop excessive force in immigration act, which seeks to ensure the safety of our communities and officers by implementing common sense standards to improve transparency and accountability in enforcement actions. law enforcement should protect the public, not trample on people’s rights and put americans at risk. this bill offers urgently needed guardrails and accountability mechanisms that ensure that federal law enforcement better protects and promotes the rights and safety of communities.” "as ice under president trump pursues increasingly extreme actions against both immigrants and u.s. citizens, lawmakers must act to protect their constituents and uphold public safety. the stop excessive force in immigration act does exactly that—ensuring federal officers have the tools they need to safeguard the public and themselves, without undermining the security of the communities they are supposed to serve ,” said sarah pierce, director of social policy , third way. “ its training, oversight, and proportionality requirements are especially critical as ice expands its workforce through rushed recruitment and abbreviated onboarding. immigration enforcement should strengthen public safety and the integrity of our immigration system—but never at the expense of the public's security." "public safety depends on trust between residents and law enforcement. across the country, we’ve seen masked federal agents use excessive force against immigrants and citizens alike" said california assembymember darshana patel. "i applaud congressman peters for leading the stop excessive force in immigration act, which promotes the same values we’ve advanced in california—keeping communities safe through accountability, transparency, and trust. this bill would place strict limits on excessive force and dangerous equipment like tear gas, require body cameras, and restrict unnecessary use of masks to help restore public confidence in law enforcement." the authority to use force is a serious responsibility, and every person has a right to be free from excessive use of force by law. the bill restricts federal immigration enforcement agent s ’ use of crowd mu nitions like tear gas, aligns immigration enforcement with the heightened doj standards on use of force, and creates greater transparency in enforcement by requiring the use of body cameras and strictly limiting the use of masks. the bill is also supported by original cosponsors representatives nydia velázquez , yvette clarke, ro khanna, gil cisneros, judy chu, brad schneider, juan vargas, emily randall, sylvia garcia, mike quigley, robin kelly, veronica escobar, jimmy panetta, seth moulto n, linda sanchez, doris matsui, mike thompso n, jerrold nadler , luz rivas , shri thanedar , and julia brownley . the bill has been endorsed by chirla - the coalition for humane immigrant rights, the coalition on human needs, church world service, and third way. the bill text is available here , a one pager is available here , a section by section is available here , and examples of excessive use of force are available here . ###