 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, we come together to address one of our nation's most pressing crisis opioid addiction and abuse. I would like to thank House and State Senate leadership for their work on this conference report. In particular, I would like to thank ranking member Pallone for his tireless leadership on this issue and for being an important guiding voice on the Energy and Commerce Committee. As my colleagues before me have noted millions of Americans each year face the devastating impact of drug abuse and addiction. As an emergency medicine physician, I have seen far too many patients who have fallen victim to this horrible cycle of addiction. I remember when a young man, blue with purple lips, was dropped out of a moving car not breathing. He was rushed into my emergency room and I intubated him to protect his airway, gave him Nalaxone and other supportive care, saved his life. But I always wondered if he had the appropriate resources once he left the emergency department to turn his life around to get treatment and to live that better life that we all strive for. I have seen this crushing physical and emotional impact on medication abuse on individuals and their families. Today we have an incredible opportunity to enact meaningful legislation to combat the epidemic of opioid abuse and help save millions of lives. In 2014, more than 28,000 Americans died because of an opioid abuse. They suffered, their families in loved ones suffered, their community suffered. Today, more Americans die from drug overdoses than car crashes. In fact, opioid abuse and addiction have become the leading cause of injury and death in the United States. Our constituents are calling on us to act. Now is the time to ensure we provide meaningful resources and support so that millions suffering from this disorder can move forward on the path towards recovery. This plans and ideas are important, but they must include the resources that will allow local, state and federal officials to implement these ideas and fully address what is truly a public health crisis. That is why I join my colleagues in demanding that our actions reflect the seriousness of this health crisis by including the necessary funding as part of the conference report we will produce today. We need funding so that law enforcement and other first responders are able to reverse the effects of an overdose and save more lives. We need funding so that patients, their families and the public are educated on the signs, symptoms and treatment of opioid abuse and more importantly, how to prevent opioid abuse. We need funding so that programs we implement in support of states around the country are sustainable and make lasting measurable improvements. We cannot let our words become merely emptying promises and in conclusion, it is critical that we ensure Americans who are suffering receive the resources, treatment and support. They need to overcome addiction so that opioid abuse patients and their families who leave the emergency department have a meaningful chance to heal and to turn their lives around. I yield back my time.