for what purpose does the gentleman from arizona rise? madam clerk, our rights nominate kevin mccarthy is speaker of the house. the gentleman is recognized. thank you madam clerk. the american dream is a dream. the american dream is a dream worth fighting for. and i know in my hearts of hearts that kevin mccarthy is the man to lead us as we work to fulfill that dream for everyone. and every state and every district. everyone in this chamber understands the need to serve our constituents. it is who elected us and our responsibility. kevin understands this as well as anyone. he has dedicated his life to spreading opportunity for all through the private sector and the public sector. this place is a special place for me. my first time on the hill was back when i was in the end of 2003. my mom visited and i remember walking around the halls of congress as if i owned a place. just a few days ago, i got to walk my mom around one more time, this special place. but now, as a member elect of the united states house of representatives. the american dream is alive. i believe it. i have gone to know kevin mccarthy well. he is a curator of republican majority in the united states house and laid out a plan to deliver for the american people. there is one thing that i know about kevin mccarthy. he cares about the american people. he cares about our country. and is here not to be somebody but to do something. and that has been laid out in his commitment to america. to fight for an economy that is strong, a nation that is safe, a future that is built on freedom, and a government that is accountable. this, i can strongly get behind. this country gave me and my family an opportunity, an opportunity to achieve the american dream. friends, i was born in mexico. the best way that i can tell you who i am is through a short conversation i had with my dad. when i told him, i was going to run for office. this conversation, of course, in spanish. my dad asked me, juan, where else could we have our story? we come to this country. we immerse in the culture. we learn english. we go through the long journey and become u.s. citizens. he said, i drive a bus my whole life. and now my son has a shot of becoming a member of the united states congress. where else in the world could we have our story? but where else in the world could any of us have our story? regardless of our background, where we come from, what side of the aisle we sit on? we have the privilege and opportunity to sit here today as part of a historic moment, fighting for what we believe. the answer of where else is nowhere else. only here. i trust kevin to fight for that american dream. because he is a product of it. we are all a product of it. he gets it. and understands that a government accountable to the people is the best tool to ensure that our future generations continue to have a real shot at the american dream. so let us be proud of our stories. let us be grateful to god for it all. and let us get to work to ensure that everyone has the same opportunity to write their own story. being a representative is not a job title. it is a job description. the eyes of the world are honest as we are airing our grievances. that is the cost of leadership. the leadership that comes from this body. so let us act like it. let us step up to that calling. that our country needs and our districts expect from us. i am confident we will resolve this issue and will stand united to fight for the values that matter to the american people. the american people who sent us here, to tackle inflation, to protect our border, to hold the executive branch accountable. it is time to do the job we were entrusted to do, to get results for the american people that sent us here. and the best person to lead us in this journey and in this fight to defend the american dream for all. this is kevin mccarthy. and i am proud to stand here before you today as the first naturalized citizen in the history of arizona to win a congressional seat. proud of the work of my parents, my dad, who drove a bus for most of his life, my mom, a homemaker. we grew up in the two bedroom apartment. they did not own a home until i was in college. but my story is not unique. i wash cars with my dad in the same neighborhood that our office sits today. we are not here celebrating one particular story. we are here celebrating the american opportunity only found here being born from this body as well as the opportunities of our country have gone. in all of you in this room have that story. i strongly believe that we all have a car wash story. the story where we began. and in spite of all the challenges and spite of all the obstacles, we are here. and each one of us are a testament to the opportunity and the greatness of this country. and that is why we are here. and i strongly believe that kevin mccarthy is the person to lead this body in this new fight, this next 118th congress. so, at the direction of the republican conference, i advance the name of kevin mccarthy as the next speaker of the house of the 118th congress.