hello everyone, thank you for being here. i want to thank speaker mccarthy and the whole leadership of the conference for these amazing seven months as i started my journey in congress every time people asked me, you know, how is it going? it is going. it is fast and we have been making a lot of progress and i am very happy about that. also, ken say that i am not happy about going home today. it is always good news and for me, going home keeps me informed, keeps me connected, and it keeps me married as well. so that is always a good thing to do. but i am proud of the work that we have done, i am proud of the work that we have delivered as a conference. we all ran on different promises and in my case was one of economic opportunity, the freedom to pursue the american dream and the way that we are safe and we continue to keep our commitment to keep our community safe. and that is what i want to talk to you just a little bit about today. my border is a border district, as you know in south eastern arizona, and border security is a big piece of our daily lives. and the relationship with mexico specifically is a big piece of our daily lives. i was born in mexico and i immigrated to the united states when i was 11 years old. became a united states citizen in 2006 and was elected to congress in 2022. this is the land of opportunity, no question about it. do not know where else in the world could we have this kind of story and opportunity. with it comes the rule of law though. with it comes responsibility to protect our borders from those trying to do harm to us. and there is a lot of cartel activity that you know about. and they have been dominating the traffic on the border, the legal traffic for a long time that is hurting the positive, by cultural and also trade relationship that we have had with mexico for so long. who is our ally and our friend. these cartels and this illegal activity have taken over the trafficking of both drugs and women and children and overall people across this and that must be stopped. and that is exactly one of the pillars of my campaign when i ran for office. and of course that was a pillar of what we had to do when we set out the plan to our commitment to america. so with that i want to just say that we are keeping our commitment to america by delivering on the safe nation and with that came hr 2. this was a build that it seems now that it was passed a long time ago and may seem that way because of all that we have done in between. but this is an important piece of legislation that highlighted the priorities that we have both to secure the border and add resources to that and also reform loops and gaps within the asylum system that has been so heavily abused. also, while protecting on the company of children. that was a big point for me and that was something that i have to give a lot of credit to the leadership for giving me a seat at the table as a freshman as someone that was not in any of the committees that were moving these bills forward but i still had a real seat at the table. i am being able to give our thoughts and opinions both of my personal experience and also my professional experience working on the border. so i am proud of the bill that we put forward. also i have been assigned to the task force on the cartel task force. this is we have been meeting for a couple of weeks now getting expert advice and we are going to be setting out a plan as we look deeper into the cartel activities and how legislation from congress can help tackle that problem as well. the efforts around fentanyl can be overstated. we have set this before that every border has become a border state due to the fentanyl crisis. my home county of pima county now is the home for the leading cost of death among young people being fentanyl overdose deaths. that is tragic. that has surpassed now car accidents and unfortunately there has not been a positive curve on that yet because of this administration's failure to tackle the real problem, both secure the border and tackle the problem regarding the cartels. also providing strong support to our military might district this home to over 70,000 veterans. that is a 9th largest veteran population in the country in terms of congressional districts. i am proud to represent two military bases and dm air force base in forward chuka. like i said, 70,000 veterans living in our community that we have been able to advocate for as a member of the veteran affairs committee as well. and then as the leader and others have mentioned today passing the military construction and veteran affairs package. very proud of this one. proud of what we have been able to do and hold the line and the funding for our veterans but also up it even more and make sure that they have all the needs that they need. also correcting the record on whatever lies were said about our efforts or our intent to cut anything on veterans. that is absolutely not the case and we prove that by making this the first appropriations bill. and speaking of appropriations, i am proud to be appointed to the appropriations committee and serve on that this entire time as the only freshman in this class to be able to do that. the only member in the arizona delegation and i want to thank the leadership speaker mcarthur and and and and leaders gilles and tom and just everyone stephanie everyone because they have given me that opportunity to be on there and represent and carry the voice of our freshman class in the appropriations process. as i said, we are heading all back home today. proud of the work that we have done by knowing that there is a lot of work to be done and the time at home it is a work period where we get to go and talk to people and listen even more. and you know the only way you can actually be happy to go back to 115 degree weather is to be leaving 100 degree human weather here in dc. so with that, thank you so much for your time and i would like to turn it over to my friend representative mary ned miller and beeks.