i am in an independent, i am on this end, so i am learning. and so i am looking around at everybody. so my question is, what is your feeling about it? i think one, i think one. yeah, i think she can help with the dance. i will be sure to check it out. i will just follow you some. you want to check it out? sure sure sure. arizona congressional candidate juan siskamani catches a convenient bout of amnesia when approached with a simple question from an independent voter about his abortion stance. fortunately, his team showed up in the nick of time to remind him that a woman needs help with the kids. probably a woman forced to give birth to and raise a rapist kid, as that is now arizona law. a reinstated 1864 abortion law that only grants exemption to women whose lives are endangered. why would not siskamani be proud of the resurrection of control over women's bodies? when he want to brag about it to potential voters like the one in this video? well, when a well-known republican senator whose name rhymes with cringy spam gives the game away, that republicans never actually wanted to leave abortion to the states. i think states should decide the issue of marriage and states should decide the issue of abortion. i think we should have a law at the federal level that would say after 15 weeks, no abortion on demand. and democrats are still raw over the dobs ruling, pushing the pro-life agenda can be political suicide. so even though what graham said is what siskamani and others believe, they are begrudgingly staying tight-lipped in the short term to keep moderates and independence interested. it is pathetic and insulting to voters' intelligence and representative alyssa slotkin saw right through this scheme for power. watch how she calls out their hypocrisy, especially when it comes to their loved ones and the beloved veterans. you want to ban all abortions, that is your goal. many of you have been open about that. if you flip the house, we know that you will put forward a full ban on all abortion for all states. you have been clear about it. you want to turn a veterans bill into an abortion bill that is doing it. not one of you are a medical doctor. not one of you. what the va guidelines say is that if you have been raped or the victim of incest or a medical professional deems that your pregnancy is a risk to your health. you have been a woman in this country who has had a miscarriage. probably many women in this room that you are a better judge of who gets to decide the future of their life and not a medical doctor. who do you think you are? you are politicians. we are all on this floor, elected officials and not medical professionals. if it was your wife, your daughter, who was suffering through a miscarriage, are you going to tell her she cannot until her fever gets high enough until she is bleeding harder? that is what is happening in the state of texas right now. if that is what you want for veterans, shame on you. shame on you. so the deems get a win pretty close to election time and republicans are pissed at the setback because maybe they could have had a lock on the house and senate. the medieval hardliners are shamelessly calling graham a saboteur of their evil plan. why is lindsey graham 25 days out from ballots going out galloping in and saying we need a federal abortion ban. really? where have you been lindsey graham? that feels like election interference. and i say this as someone who is so pro-life, i would love a total abortion ban 15 weeks is not enough, but i am also not dumb. you know, it is almost like he wants republicans to lose. that is the conspiracies theory that i would actually subscribe to here. he wants republicans to lose. this is a sabotage. it is the only way to explain it. but the large majority are cowards. there is a genocide happening in america under roe v. wade, the federal government recognizes a right to kill babies in the womb. i am pro-life, but i oppose a federal abortion ban. abortion is divisive and tim walls is weaponizing the issue. in minnesota, it is a protected constitutional right and no governor can change that, and i am not running to do that. if that is the decision, the court makes it possible for there to be votes at all levels of government and democratic bodies on this issue. in terms of scheduling, i think most of the members of my conference prefer that this be dealt with at this state level. i visited over 25 gop candidate websites, incumbents and newcomers, and they are transparently suppressing their monstrous feelings. none of the major congressional candidates disclosed how they would use the government to take care of babies, half made no mention of their stance on abortion. the rest used ambiguous statements like, i will always protect the life of the unborn. two candidates had donation paywalls to their websites, and another two bragged about how they are rated 100% by the pro-life version of the nra, the national right to life. and now, republicans are in lockstep with hershel walker despite written and verbal confirmation that he paid for an abortion for one of the mothers of his children. if republicans backtracking did not clue you into their ultimate motivation and feelings on abortion, this has to. pro-life is and always was a political tool, a moralistic narrative to get republicans ultimate power. power to control women's bodily autonomy, where trans kids get to go to school, and who the queer community gets to marry. none of these fascists are obstetricians or gynos. the biggest losers will continue to be women and children, as no one in the gop gave a second thought as to how they would help women after childbirth. that'll just become the woman's financial responsibility. that is the worst part, but it sucks that diehard pro-lifers like lindsey graham do not lose favor with their voters. that the gop cowards are deflecting, waiting out the shelf life of graham's damage until they gain majority status across the board, and then can federally ban abortion. or they are just raising and telling us it is all about seizing power. this has been the long game, the war they plan to win, even though they lost a pre-mitterm battle. and they are expecting us to believe a federal ban is the line that will not be crossed?