thanks for joining us on fox 10 news, mick roussand, a pleased to have with us today. a guy who we have not spent a lot of time with on this program. in fact, i believe this is the first time that andy biggs has been on this program. the newly-minute congressman from district 5, the east valley. good to see you. we are talking mesa, chandler, queen creek, your hometown of gilbert. much of the east valley replacing matt salmon, who retired. good to see you, and thanks for coming in. good to see you. thanks for having me. it is gonna be great. you have been in now, what, three months, four months almost? yeah, a little over three months. how has that transition been going from where you were in the arizona senate, you were senate president, the house before that, the arizona state house? how did that prepare you for this job and what is been the biggest surprise so far on washington? well, i think it prepared me in the way that congress works, because it is a law-making body. it is a self-governing body. everything is done through the committee process. so i know how committees work. it is familiar to you. absolutely. it is the familiarity. we get bills, we read legislation. you know how to read the legislation. and so all of those things are very familiar and have made for a mostly easy adjustment. but the other aspect to have a too is, any legislative body you are gonna see people act and respond in certain ways that are very familiar and similar as well. people are gonna put pressure on you in certain ways. you know how to respond to that. turn about lobbyists, constituents, all of it. lobbists, constituents, leadership, the leadership. other members of your conference, you have seen that before. you know how to respond. i feel much less respond. yeah, that is a good way of saying. much less over when i feel much more comfortable than i think i would have thought going into it. is it functional? you know people have talked about the dysfunction in washington. do you think the congress is still functioning even though it may be messy the way it should? i do believe that. people forget that the purpose of congress is to have filters so you do not just spit out a bunch of bad ideas. you wanna filter out bad ideas. and when we say it is functioning, what you are seeing is, i think the healthcare thing was the perfect example of how it functions because when you get there and you say, well, this is gonna have a problem. and people, both from the moderate side, people from the conservative side, kind of ended up, even though they were at odds, over why they said, wait a second, we have gotta put a break on this. and you are part of the freedom caucus. that is about 60 members who are extremely conservative. would you agree with that? i do not know if we have, i do not know what, no one knows what the official number is, but we are conservative. and if you were to describe to somebody, you are sitting with somebody flying home from washington next to somebody on an airplane and they said, so you are a congressman, tell me about this freedom caucus. what is the deal? what are they about? well, i think the freedom caucus is a great place for people like myself who say, look, we want to be effective. and in congress, you have to have groups in order, i mean, this is really the truth. you have to have some groups together to have lever. strength and number. exactly, because everything is done by committees and coalitions and caucuses. and so this is a caucus that gets together. we actually debate the merits of bills. we read the bills, we debate the merits of the bills. we talk about solutions. we try to find out how can we make this bill better? or... so in the case of health care, what was it that you said, i cannot buy into this? was it just the fact that it would not bring costs down? yeah, let me just say this, the freedom caucus never took a formal position on that. everybody was basically an agent to themselves, but we discussed the very thing you talked about. will this bring costs down? we actually brought in experts to freedom caucus from both sides of the fence to say, tell us what this would do. and they gave us that information. for me, i do not understand this in some ways after saying that a lot of this is familiar, but what we are talking about is a president who said, we need to repeal obamacare. we are talking about mitch mcconnell who said, we need to repeal obamacare and tear it out root and branch. and the republicans, before i got there, put out a pamphlet saying, you cannot untie the knot on this. you must repeal everything about obamacare. well, the bill did not do any of that. the bill saved a lot of it. it saved a lot of it. you kept the framework in place. so it did not go far, nearly far enough. yeah, for me, i want to be able to go back. so i admit that i am asking for the perfect, which is a straight repeal, oddly enough, a bill that has been passed in congress a number of times before, at least out of the house of representatives. that is what i said was the perfect. then they say, do not let that be the enemy of the good. fine. the next best thing would be the 2015 bill that passed out unanimously by republicans in the house and the senate. it appears that you may be inching toward that goal right now. health care is not dead, reforming or repealing obamacare and trying to fix it if that is what it may end up being. you are still moving in that direction, quietly. is that correct? that is correct. and so what you are seeing happen is there are negotiations, well, we have been off on this work recess. there are negotiations that are happening daily. is the administration involved in this? i am not sure where they are involved in it, but i do know that you are getting groups within the conference. i know leadership is kind of acting as a facilitator in some ways. where groups are coming together, they are talking about, can we get there here? do you believe you can get there? do you believe that this will still happen? oh, i feel very strongly it is going to happen. whether it gets to the point where i can vote for it, i do not know. because the devil's in the details. i mean, we need to see what is written. we need to know exactly what is happening with it. let me ask you, you just came home this week. you had a town hall. was it the first town hall you would had since you first in person town hall? we had done two teletown halls. a lot of folks in your situation had kind of avoided the in person town hall because they were becoming unruly and out of hand and really uncivilized. and then you guys got chastised for not meeting with constituents face to face. you got hectored a bit at your town hall. mainly over climate change. that was the biggest thing in the night when you said, you know, i am not sure about this stuff. i have doubts. you got a big groan. that tells me that the makeup in the audience is probably liberal. are these, is it liberals coming to the town hall, hassling you? or is it conservatives to the right of you, which would be almost impossible because you are pretty far right? well, john, let me tell you, in this particular event, i give kudos to my staff, mesa pd, the church that let us hold it there. it was a big venue. right. about night, seats 950. but only 600 or so came. and of those 600, i would guesstimate. roughly two thirds were against me and a third were for me. against meaning, democrats? democrats? yeah, i do not know what, yeah, i would say. they certainly were not organized. yes, and yeah, i would say it certainly seemed organized to me. and we have seen some of the social media that went out afterwards and they said, well, we need to organize our chance better. so when we call them coward, we need to all be shouting coward together. we need to... oh, you have seen this. we have seen this. yeah, we have absolutely seen it. and so... i mean, it is there right, by the way, because you represent... absolutely. and republicans, even though you are a republican, you represent that whole district. that is right to say what they want. absolutely. my goal was to be gracious and welcoming and smiling, embrace it, lean into it. how did it work? how did that work, doing that, taking that approach? i felt pretty good. you know, of all the questions, i mean, people said, well, they did not ask all... we did not get that time to ask all our questions. well, the reality is, well, there was only one person that i knew was from my supporters who were there who asked a question. she got booed while she was asking the question. but i was smiling and welcoming, and i thanked everyone. i did not... and i am sincere when i say this. i am glad that we could do this. but actually, at one point, somebody stands up and yells, quit smiling. i am like, really? we are glad to have you here. let me ask you about a couple of things in the news. obviously, let us take... take number one. missile strike, donald trump orders in syria to take out the airfield. a couple hours north and east of the capital of syria. when you saw this, what was your reaction? i had a lot of mixed feelings the way i think most americans did. i think we were all horrified by the use of chemical weapons by assad. by the same token, we do not want to insert ourselves so far that we get drawn into this conflict, which is a civil war. you are worried about that? i am worried about that, absolutely. i was reminded of the early 80s when president reagan undertook similar actions and unilaterally with regards to libya. and so, my thought was, okay, i get it. we finally have a strong president who is doing this, who is taking this very strong action, setting a marker. the context also comes into play. you had assad and the russians who had previously said, we have eliminated all of you. so, chemical weapons. and then you have trump meeting with the chinese president at the same time this is going on. is that by design or is that just a happy accident, but it seemed to send a message? i agree with you. it is sent to a real message because it was not long after that. the 150,000 troops moving to the north korean border and china's border moved back and stood down. i think that it was a probably a happy coincidence, serendipity in some ways. but congress has the power to declare war. the president is the commander-in-chief under the constitution. there is a war powers act, which is meant to bridge that, but is the constitutionality of that can be brought into question. so do you believe he should have gone to you guys and said, here's what i am planning to do, i need you to sign off on it. i was at the hands of the president. oh, absolutely. at hands of the president, it was meant to do that because we are the people's representatives and it was to determine venice from getting to kind of a military who into type of thing. so i wish that he would have come to congress. i understand why he did not come to congress. but i do think if any further action in that arena needs to come to congress. okay, so let us take tape two. now you have got a bomb landing today as we are taping this on thursday on the afghan border, right in the near the torah borough region where osama bin laden was hanging out after 9-11. to try to break apart these tunnels, this super bomb, moab, the mother of all bombs. do you think the president should have come to you about this? this is a little bit different context in the sense that we have already been engaged in military conduct in various places in the world against isis. the issue that we, so on this specific action, i am not sure that i would say he needed to come to congress. but what i would say is if we are going to take, make acts of war against even isis, even though it is a non-state, act, or non-traditional adversary, i think we need to basically make the case to the american public that we need to be at war with them. and we need to go to congress and make that same case. and if we do what has to happen at that point is we pull our resources, we pull our resolve and our commitment to make this a priority like no other. it is interesting because congressman, when i hear you speak, this is the argument democrats have been making. the president needs to come to us about this stuff. he cannot just kind of go off on his own and do this stuff. well, democrats were not making that under the previous administration. what i am suggesting is, look, we have military forces throughout the world. and i do not believe in america's world policeman strategy. i do believe in america as protect our security interests, which is exactly what president trump, donald trump, candidate trump, was talking about on the campaign trail. absolutely. now he is taken a step into these incursions that maybe, i think a lot of people, even people of otofor, maybe did not anticipate. i would agree with that. i mean, we look back and see, what did he say in four or five years ago when president obama was considering what to do? he said, do not do it. do not do it. and president trump promised, i am going to be the president of the united states of america first. right. america first. and so i think the distinction with what i heard his explanation in syria is, he was trying to make a case that this was a critical national security interest that we were protecting. and it was a measured response by attacking infrastructure. now if that is the case, then that is very limited. he is still under the war powers act. he is got to come back to congress and explain that and justify that. the president making this decision without congressional approval. if you do that, you really telegraph to the enemy what you are about to do. well, that is correct. and that is what war powers act was designed to allow. but the question you have to ask yourself is, was that action justified unilaterally on the part of the executive branch? and you say, that is where i have, you have asked, i have vacillated. so because i look at it and say, i think that in this instance, i can justify it. i can justify it because of all the context that you and i have just talked about. but by the same token, you really cannot do much more than that. and how do you do much more than that is you come back to congress, come to american people and say, here's why we have to do this. we are going to take a break, quick break on newsmeekers sunday. when we come back, we are going to talk about the border wall, the chances of that actually happening. trump tax reform, where does that stand going forward? and this idea of sanctuary cities, we are going to talk about that in war with andy biggs, new congressman from district 5 in the east valley of the greater phoenix area. back for congressman biggs in a moment on newsmeekers sunday. back with congressman andy biggs. he won election first term to arizona's fifth congressional district, replacing matt salmon, who retired. boy, that was a nail-biter of an election. you won by 27 votes over christine jones. yes, in the primary. did you think that you had lost that race at any point? did you think you would lost it or did you, did your people on the ground say, not so fast, i think you are going to win it when it is all counted? well, i will just tell you, the night of the party, the night of the election we had a party, my wife and i were the only two that we felt like we were going to win. and in any event we would done all we could. even though you were trailing that night. yeah, we were trailing it on. we were on election night. we thought christine jones' lead would probably hold up. well, here's to be very honest about it. we thought it would. well, our polling data, our pollster was very clear to us. he said, look, everything tells us that she will win the early ballots. but you are trending in the day of. and we think, if you work hard and we get the kind of turnout that we think we are going to get, which by the way was far more than we anticipated. which i think it means a huge difference because we were probably 8,000 people below where the turnout actually was. right, in my feeling that night. and usually this is in the case. the early vote when it comes in, that separation, it may close or widen a little bit, but generally who is on top when the early ballots are counted, usually ends up prevailing. well, what we did is we... this was really kind of different. yeah, it was different because, but what we did is we got that message about a week into early validings. and we said, we are changing our message. and so we went out and changed our message. and what we felt we needed to do is we needed to not even talk about our opponent, no contrast, nothing. we are just going to talk about me. so people would know who i was because that was the deal. people who knew who i was, positives were very high. but we felt like we did not have enough people that knew who i was. so we need to get out. so people knew who i was. i believe christine jones has a future somewhere. yeah, i think so. i think so. she is old for two running for office right now. but a lot of people feel she is got a lot of game. where would be a good fit for her? well, i have always felt that if she is going to run for congress, she should run in the district in which she lives, which i think she would be a formidable opponent there. i think that she is quite frankly, you mentioned i am a pretty conservative guy. cd5 is a pretty conservative district. i think that her political philosophy probably fits much better in cd9 than does not cd5. let me roll tape number five. there is been all this talk about the border wall. one of your colleagues in the arizona congressional delegation has said that he wants environmental impact studies on effects on species with this wall. i am talking about raul grihalvo, of course. there seem to be a lot of roadblocks already kind of going up with this. do you believe this will ever come to fruition and will it look like anything donald trump described during the campaign? well, i do not know how beautiful it will be. my sense is it will end up like this. you can see through, right? and because even border agents want to be able to see what is on the other side. they do not want some wall that they cannot see through. well, so the wall that is up behind us right now is very similar to the wall outside of nogales where it is these tall slatted. it is fortified. but what is interesting about it is when i have been down to the border and i have talked to people who are monitoring the border, they will say, i say, how long does it take to get through that? they said, oh, you can get over and down. i think it is five or six seconds of that wall. i think that you are going to see it a wall. i think you are going to also see increased technological barriers. i think you are going to see the need for roadways and easements along that border fence. i do that it could be patrol more readily. absolutely. it absolutely. some of the topography makes it impossible. well, it is possible to build a wall just like it is impossible to actually cross through there. right. so, yeah, i would go from macallan to san diego. right. and you have got the reservation there. that is also a problem. they are not going to put a wall up on the reservation. well, so here's the, so i have met with the tijuana odom of reservation leadership a couple times now. they do not want it. they do not want to miss anybody in the public. they do not want a wall. but i have suggested that you will never get a better time to leverage what you want that wall to look like than now. well, and furthermore, they may not want a physical wall, but they do not like what is happening to their native lands with the dogs, smugglers, and the people coming through. right. they do not. and they also do not like the technological towers and stuff that are out there monitoring. and i think they need to have, they have border entries, stations already on their reservation. and i think those need to be modernized and updated and more efficient for them as well as roadways and easements for them. let me roll tape number six. i am bouncing around a little bit, but donald trump has said we are, and even your speaker, paul ryan has said we are going to move on to tax reform. even though healthcare is quietly still kind of noise in the background, you are still working on it. this is ryan's previous talking about where we are with tax reform. take a listen. moving forward, the president's vision on lowering taxes for every american is what is going to unite, not just the republican party, but i think some of those democrats are going to come on board as well. if we can provide one of the biggest middle class tax cuts in the history of this country. congressman, some people have said if you cannot get healthcare done, tax reform is going to be even tougher. i disagree with that. there is a part of me that we should we would have done tax reform first. it is a, it is an easier sell to certainly the entire republican conference because what we are talking about impacts individuals, including the middle class, reducing their taxes, providing opportunities for them. also reducing the highest corporate tax rate in the world. to stimulate the economy, these are things that we, we basically universally within the republican conference believe in. and if you believe in arthur laffer and all these other people, this is what will reap benefits almost immediately if you do this. yeah, and i think that not every, not the laffer creative does not work on every tax, but when you start talking income tax and corporate income tax in particular, it does work. and it happens typically within a year to two years. and you would see that and we anticipate and i think the economists that i have talked to and heard give briefings on this, it could raise the gdp by a point or so, fairly and fairly short order. that is a trillion dollars more into the economy. we are going to take a quick break here on newsmaker sunday. congressman andy biggs from cd5 in east valley, replacing matt salmon, won a tight election in the primary, won easily in the general, we are back with congressman biggs right after this. a lot of moments with congressman andy biggs, we have been inundated by this video all week long, the sky on the united airlines. jet, hold off the flight. this was ugly. is this something congress now needs to get involved in to protect the passengers, which by the way, and i remind people on social media, we bailed out as taxpayers. these very airlines, united was a big benefactor. and this is how they thank us. look, i am not sure the congress needs to get involved because they are already heavily regulated. these contracts are there. what happened here that was highly unusual is the physical confrontation, right? which, you know, so much could have been avoided if the airline personnel would have just handled this, i think, quite different. you think you guys might weigh into this to try to protect people, give consumers, try to protect the consumer a little bit. i do not think that that is the right rule for congress because i can tell you this already airlines are supposed to provide that compensation if they are going to bump you. right. and if they just give the right price, somebody will take it. somebody will take it. i mean, that is a free market. yeah. and we would be far less expensive than losing what was it, 1.5 billion in one trading day for united. oh, absolutely. to me, this is just kind of a, an unfur, highly unfortunate situation because this guy's dragged off. yeah. and also what have taken was probably some, some, maybe, maybe you need some better training to do. you know, thank you, congressman. thank you. we appreciate it. we got to have you back. thank you. okay. and thank you for weighing in on that because everybody's talking about it. we will see you next week on newsmeckers sunday. thank you. thanks.