here to discuss arizona republican congressman and house freedom caucus chairman, andy biggs is back, welcome back, sir. thank you and good to have you back, kennedy. so you guys, it looks like you are going to have two democrat senators from what has been a solidly republican state. so what is happening in arizona? why is the president having a hard time and why are democrats really capitalizing on that? well, we have had the demographic changes you pointed out. i mean, we are right next door to california. and a lot of the people who come here at true refugees, they want to get into the arizona lifestyle. they are going to vote conservative republican because that is where they are philosophically. but we get a lot of people who come over, they like the cheaper cost of living, they like the fewer regulations, lower taxes, and all of that thing. but they vote like they are still in california. and that becomes a real problem. and so i always say, we are glad to have you here. please vote to keep us arizona instead of turning us into california. i know they are having the same problem in texas. beto or rorck almost won that senate seat. and ted cruz obviously prevailed. and now it looks like joe biden could win texas. this is all crazy. now, you have got different states. so the message changes slightly, but what do conservatives have to do to reappear to those voters? i was talking to ben dominic about it a little bit at the top of the show. is there an identity crisis within the republican party? and how can you shore things up and win again? well, i think in arizona, we are poised now. i think we are going to have a good outcome of this election for red. but the reality is we have to keep the spin. do you think mark mcsally is going to win? i think she has got a real legitimate shot. i think president trump is going to win by three and a half. and if he does, i think martha mcsally wins very narrowly. but i think she can win. it is very close, very tight. but i think it gets to the point of expanding the base. and what we have seen here is, is minority voters, whether latino or blacks voters, they are actually embracing the trump philosophy. and that is one of freedom. they like that. they associate with that. they liked the opportunities that were coming. they liked everything with their first step back to the opportunities. if we expand that base, i think that we can keep arizona red for at least another few cycles. i am surprised it has taken this long for republicans to reach out to non-white voters. and they have always taken for granted that latinos and blacks do not vote republican. and hopefully your party will see that people are not monoliths. they are not part of mindless blobs. and you are absolutely right. you have to appeal to individuality, freedom, and success. because everyone wants to be a part of a boom. everyone wants the rising tide to lift their boat, especially if that boat will someday become a yacht. no, that is exactly right. and i think this president, when he was campaigning in 2016, and what he has done since then, you saw the tremendous low unemployment rates, the opportunities, the actual wage increases. when people feel that, they do understand pocketbook, politics. and that is why i think you can expand the base. and i think that is why he is expanding the base in arizona. well, we will see. but wayne endorsed him in the platinum plan tonight. does that resonate with voters enough to push him over the top? we will see congressman biggs. thank you so much. yep. thanks, kennedy.