today, we tragically lost a tremendous leader and a friend. we did not lose him so much as he was taken from us. charlie kirk was an inspiration to an entire generation, and i believe that his legacy will grow. he will be remembered as someone who changed the course of this nation. he was the founder of one of the most influential political movements of our time. we live in an interesting time. we see political movements, president trump, as fostered the magga movie, perhaps the most powerful in the history of the country. but charlie kirk, let us just talk about what he did in arizona, and then we will talk about his most important contributions. he founded an organization, t.p. turning point, usa, and a whole affiliate of related turning point. and they are headquartered right there in arizona, and he was just absolutely remarkable. so in arizona, it was about a ground state, right? what did they do? in our state, turning point action together with other coalitions actually turned out more than 300,000 low propensity republican voters, right? what is the difference? the difference was it made there, donald trump win arizona. it helped donald trump win arizona by the largest margin of any battleground state, 160,000 votes, a 5% five point victory there. so he fostered a movement, but he did it foster the movement because he was smart. he was erudite. he was passionate. he was generally calm. he took on all the cameras, and i am afraid to talk with anyone about his message. so, while we consider this movement, we know that people in his generation and younger are actually moving to the right. and a lot of people say they are moving to the right because they have been disassociated by the left. they have been disillusioned by the left. and i think there is probably some of that to it, but they do not move to the right unless there is an invitation. and so he invited people to come. to share his love of freedom, family, faith, god, and country. so charlie will be an historic figure. he really will be. and he will be one more, and along line of those who are good, whose life is snuffed out by those who are evil. but his memory will remain strong. and i would suggest that the most important role that charlie filled was as a loving husband and a father, and about christian who shared his faith unapologetically without fear, with tremendous courage, charisma, and compassion. my family invokes our thoughts and prayers on behalf of erika and erika charlie's two young children. we pray that god covers them with peace and gives them the comfort of the holy ghost. i think i want to just close david with a couple of things. there is, we always say there is no place for political violence in this country, and there should not be. this assassination was meant to instill fear. it was an actual assassination, a political assassination. so what must we do? well, we certainly speak peace and truth and comfort, but we respond with courage because the message charlie brought was there is a good way this country has much to offer everyone. so we will double down. we will reinvigorate and restart our engine and those who want to destroy this country, whether it be because they want to destroy our faith in god, whether they want to destroy our freedom, whether they want to destroy our education, david, you mentioned then. we will persevere because there is much to be learned from this young man. and so i say with my family, god bless you and your family, charlie. god bless the entire tpusa team who are in mourning grieving. and god bless the message of freedom that america stands for. david, thank you. thank you for letting me take a moment. i will see you back.