music coming up next on arizona horizon, a visit with two newly-electored arizona congressmen, republican representative andy biggs of congressional district 5 and democrat tom o'hallarine of congressional district 1. arizona's newest congressman next on arizona horizon. arizona horizon is made possible by contributions from the friends of arizona pbs, members of your pbs station. thank you. good evening and welcome to arizona horizon. i am ted simon. state senate president andy biggs got a promotion last month. he was elected to represent arizona's 5th congressional district, vacated by matt salmon, joining us now to talk about his new job, congressman-elect andy biggs. welcome back to the show. good to see you here. congratulations on your win. thanks ted. good to see you. have you been back? how many have you been back now since you have been elected? four times. four times. from what you have seen the difference, and i know there is a lot of differences, but the clear difference between congress state legislature? well, it is bigger. yes, there is more... they have committees with more members than we have in the entire state senate, i mean, it is big, bigger issues in some respects, but not any more important, but somehow bigger. and i think it is easy to see how some of those folks get caught up in the bubble of washington dc. how is it going to say, what surprised you most when you went back there? what did you see in here that you did not expect to see in here? i think first of all, well, there is two things. number one was just seemed like everywhere we went, there was media watching, which is really unusual. we do a lot of work in anonymity here, and i am okay with that, but there is more media. the second thing is you can really get a different vibe. i mean, the vibe before the election amongst republicans was a little bit, i do not want to say marose. it is kind of, there was not this enthusiasm or exuberance, but ever since november 8th, there is been this sense of excitement on the part of the republicans in the house, and even in the senate that i have talked to. as far as working with a president-elect trump, what are your thoughts on that? well, it is better than working with a president-elect clinton in my mind, but i am hopeful that we can get some of the policies done that i ran on, and that i think that coincide with what he has said that he wants to do. i want to get to those policies in a second, but trump is always the 900-pound gorilla in every room. right now, there is talk of congressional investigations, possible russian cyber attacks, into the election. would you support such investigation? well right now, there does not seem to be any evidence. there is a lot of great rumors out there, but there does not seem to be any evidence, and i would really want to see something solid before i would say, let us jump into this. cia saying that russia was involved, is that enough evidence? maybe not. how come? well, they do not want to disclose what their evidence is. they are just saying, here it is. well, why are you saying that? and what is driving that? and i think that is important to get to. if you have party leaders, both in the house and senate, the republican leaders saying, we have got to look into this. they want to see it bipartisan. would you go along with leadership's ideas, or again, do you need to see more for yourself? i want to feel comfortable that if we are going to open this up, that there is something there. i think part of the thing that bothers americans, at least in my district, when i was talking is that sometimes washington does things regardless of cost, regardless of thoughtful look at things. sometimes there is some knee jerk reaction. and i think we want to make sure that we are on top of this thing by seeing whether it really is evidence. if there is evidence, then yeah, maybe we need to do that. but i want to make clear, you would be concerned if evidence showed russian interference in the election, whether it is interfering for or against either candidate. i would be concerned if anybody was interfering with our elections, whether it is a foreign government or a hacker sitting in a basement of his house. i mean, yes, i would be concerned. first order of business for you, back in washington. i promised on the campaign stump that i would introduce six bills. we are already working on the outlines of those six bills. and i think we are going to be revved up to drop those bills, as i said within two or three weeks of being elected. any ideas on what those bills are? any ideas of telling us what those bills are? yeah, i am happy. i told the public. i told the public. i will tell you. first one is congress is not produced a balanced budget in decade. and so congress should not get paid, should not get their recess until they do their job. and so that would be one of the bills. number two is the regulatory burden that we have on the country costs almost two and a half trillion dollars a year. oddly enough, that is their national debt's too tight. so the reigns act, i will support reintroduction of the reigns act. go ahead. let us stop right there. as far as regulations are concerned, we hear a lot of regulations need to be decreased. can they be decreased too much? well, here's what you are looking at. i mean, you are asking me a real simple question. you would think it, i can just say, what yes or no. but in reality, there are constitutional constraints on what the federal government can do and what it cannot do. and that is an article one section eight. i mean, that tells us what congress can do. congress is essentially delegated its lawmaking authority, unconstitutionally to these agencies who go out and regulate. my point would be simply this, we need to bring that back to congress. congress has an obligation constitutionally to oversee it. and that is where we need to rest the regulatory environment right there on congress itself. we are beholden to the people who elect us, not like a bureaucracy who is not. okay. fourth bill, i think, ripped out number four. yeah, we could be three or four. okay, i cannot. well, we will work on that. a common core and federal education mandates, we need to eliminate those. number four is the implementation of grants law in maricopa county alone over the last 18 months or so. we have released from the feds almost 4,000 violent criminal illegal aliens. they should not be released into our city streets anywhere in this country. so that is what grants laws about dealing with grant ronnebeck, i think you are familiar with his case. number five is congress exempted itself from some of the laws with regard to obamacare where you close that loophole. and then number six, which is one of my favorites is to create a new 12th circuit court, remove arizona from the ninth federal circuit, put us in the 12th circuit with arizona, idaho, i will see you are nevada, montana, utah, the mountain states. the mountain states, in alaska, yeah. you mentioned the affordable care act. let us get to that. will you vote to repeal the affordable care act? yes, i will. i know that that is one thing my voters wanted and i believe that that is necessary. the affordable care act, though, is like the inside of a baseball filled with strings and rubber bands that need to be pulled apart can be very tricky to pull them all apart, but yes, i will vote to repeal it. if you could pull them all apart or could pull apart as many as possible, would you do that without a replacement? well, i do not like to think of a term of replacement because i think obamacare was such a bad idea that you do not want to replace it. i think what you want to do is have an alternative market-driven plan. starting from hsas and fsas, flexible savings accounts to looking at what is going on with health insurance companies driving costs, portability of insurance, these are things that we should be looking at as well. preexisting conditions, provisions there. there needs to be some acknowledgement that there needs to be a high-risk pool. i mean, every state has a high-risk pool, even in their own medicaid systems, and arizona was no exception, and we need to be aware of that as well. provision for a 26, folks 26, an under-to-remain on their parents' plan. should that remain? i look, as a guy with kids who are in that bracket, i find that a dubious necessity. really? yeah. explain. look, they are not even required to live in your home if they are under age 26. well, i happen to have a bevy of kids in that age group or have had a bevy of kids. you know what? they do not need to be on my health insurance plan. we have heard from the arizona hospital association and others in the medical field here in arizona. the $25,000 would lose coverage if the affordable care act were to be just gotten rid of without a replacement of any kind. hospitals would suffer multi-billion, $3 billion in the first year. and since 2010, it sounds like arizona's the uninsured in arizona that is dropped from like 17% to 11%. all that they say is reason that you simply cannot with a stroke of a pen or a yavote or a naivote get rid of obamacare without something reasonably in place, whether it is an alternative or something in place. do they have a point? look, i do not want to get into their numbers and their data, but i do think that the point is really clear. if you, something that has been as massive as obamacare has been, it needs to go away. it needs to go away. it needs to go away. the reality is, if you just repeal it and leave this ball bouncing somewhere, you are not going to be able to, let us just face it, the republicans are going to get to blame. you should shift it from the democrats right over to republicans. so republicans better have some ideas for alternative proposals, whether they be market-based, market-driven, which would be my approach or whatever they may be. they need to have something, an alternative. speaker ryan, we are running out of time here, but now speaker ryan was saying that he wants the house to ease up a bit on waging what he called symbolic, but empty fights. does that make sense to you? well, yeah, i have always been a big believer that you choose your battles and you fight those battles. and sometimes a symbolic battle is just as important as a more substantive battle. but by and large, i have tried to build my idea of a policy advancement through the idea that, yeah, you choose your battles and you go after the ones that need to be changed sooner and you fight them vigorously and try to win those. has the gravity last question here? has the gravity of this position sunk in? i think it has begun to sunk and i think it would be naive for me to say, yeah, i really get it. but i mean, i think that you begin to feel the weight. it is pretty weighty. all right. well, congratulations again on your victory. good luck and we hope to hear from you again soon. thanks for being here. we appreciate it. appreciate it. have a happy holiday. thank you, you too. thanks. all right. part discussion with recently elected arizona congresswoman continues now with former state lawmaker tom o'hallarann, who was elected to represent congressional district one, which is vacated by fellow democrat and crick patrick. we welcome representative of elect<|ja|> tom o'hallarann to arizona horizon. congratulations on your win. well, thank you very much. i really appreciate the citizens of congressional district one putting me in the office. why do you think you won? i think my message was to the needs of the district. it was orientated around jobs, making sure we had health care, and basically making sure the families in the district improve their life. i know land and water issues are big in that district. they were big in the campaign. talk about your vision there, and especially how that vision coincides with environmental concerns. well, as you know, my history in arizona is water and forestry issues have been a big part of my public policy input. i feel that in district one, the forestry issues are important to our economy and important to the long-term liability of the five national forests that are in the district and the grand canyon. and as far as water goes, we have the conor ratter river in the district. we have salt river in the district. so this is an important issue for the entire state and the southwest. i know in the campaign you said you would protect coal-related jobs. how would you do that, and how do you also protect against carbon emissions? well, you plan for it. you just do not come into communities and say, we are going to take away all the best jobs in these rural communities, and you people we have not even consulted you. i want the people of my district consultant. i want a national plan to do this, not just a haphazard plan. and i believe that congress has not done its job of debating this in congress. they have allowed an agency to take steps that i think it needs to go through a congressional rule for a process. would you vote to kill the president's clean power plan? well, i think that the new president is going to have to do that on himself, and he is going to take that plan and not go on through congress. i want to see it go through congress. well, there are two resolutions last year in congress. the house did just that. they voted against the clean power plan. i mean, if that were to come up, how would you vote? do not know yet. i do not see what the plan would be. if it did not include those elements of making sure communities are made whole, making sure that there is a national policy on power, and making sure that we are not just closing plans for the sake of politics versus then what is going on in the rest of the world, then i would vote for it. what about the president's plan for a grand canyon area monument? controversial could come up for a vote. i would vote for that. i vote for ray sonoleta in of support. okay. so for those who say that it is too much, it takes too many jobs, and it takes too much opportunity away from not the grand canyon itself, but the grand canyon area up there, you say. i do not know what jobs people are saying that it is going to take away. the battle industry is protected, the only thing that does not allow in that area is mining. and hunters are protected, and in fact it protects a watershed and it protects jobs because of tourism in that area. you know that you are going to get a very vociferous argument on the other side and it is going to come very often from the president on down now. how effective can democrats be on capitol hill getting things done? well i think that people are rushing ahead of themselves in this whole thought process that democrats are going to be irrelevant. within the republican caucus, there is already people talking about things that they do not like within the president's plans. i see a caucus at one time or another is going to fracture along some lines and some issues. then that allows the opening for democrats to negotiate. i was going to say we talk about the affordable care act a lot because it looks like it is headed for a fall. although, again, president-elect trump says he is not going to do anything without a replacement plan. your fellow representative-elect andy bigg says, well, not a replacement. it is got to be an alternative. you cannot just get rid of it. how do you plan to fight for the provisions in the affordable care act? well the provisions that are in there are some of the cost drivers that are affecting the plan. and so what i said in my campaign is i want to take a look at those cost drivers to see if they are needed, they are relevant, and to improve the plan, not to do away with the plan. and when you talk, all of a sudden, it is easy to say things on the campaign trail about doing away with the affordable care act. it is much harder when you are affecting families and the lives of our citizens. and that is what we are talking about now. now reality is at the table. and reality says you need to find something to replace it, and it has to be something that allows those citizens and more citizens to be able to afford health insurance. republicans say there is something out there. it is market driven in general for the most part, market driven. could you live with something like that? i have not seen a market driven- we are here because of market driven insurance. and the fact that we had an affordable care act because it was not being taken care of. and whether it is, you take a family in poverty that is above the line for excess in the state of arizona, medicaid. and they do not have the resources for a savings plan, a medical savings plan. they do not care about a tax credit because the tax credit, they do not pay taxes because they are under a certain level. and a family of four making $40,000 a year, they cannot afford this health insurance. whether it is the affordable care act or other concerns, you mentioned working with republicans. there might be some opportunities there as perhaps republican caucus fractures in ways that we cannot even imagine right now. the campaign you were quoted as saying, we are at our best when we are united. the country does not feel united and capitol hill does not feel united. washington does not. how do you get that unification to happen? well, i do not think we are united right now as a country and politically. and how you get to do it is i am part of a freshman class of republicans and democrats and we just came back from a kennedy school government where we dealt with policy. and one of the things those that were at the school said was we are going to work together. we are going to meet on a regular basis. i joined a group called the new dums. we work with republicans, put our hand out and say, let us work together on these major issues affecting the citizens of arizona and the united states. so you do not do it by taking jabs of people by just saying, you know, they are wrong. you do it by working together and creating public policy that is for the betterment, not political betterment, but the betterment of society. but i can hear democrats and critics saying that is all fine and dandy, but it is one thing to say i am going to work with republicans. it is another to say i am going to work with republicans when they will not work with you. well, it is impossible to work with somebody that refuses to work with you. and they have to show that they are willing to work. and if they are not willing to work, we still have to look at the policy that comes out. i do not know what mr. trump is going to put out as public policy. nobody does. i know what i have heard. i have some very serious concerns about some of his nominations and so forth. what is the biggest concern of what he is done so far? anything on foreign policy. i mean, i have never in my entire life seen a president of president elect start to get involved so much in foreign policy. you take a look at the statement he made on twitter again today about the f-35, which is important to arizona. and lockheed martin lost $4 billion at one point during the market today. i mean, that is just not the appropriate thing for somebody. it is not involved in our foreign policy yet, and not involved in our procurement system yet, defense yet. do you think that there is a smoking gun that shows that russian hackers tried to intervene in this election cycle? i am not any intelligence committee and probably will not be as a freshman, but i can say this. if there is the hint of it and there is, then we should look into it. we should not allow this type of thing to go on answered. we have to make sure the integrity of our electoral system is kept intact and that no foreign powers are able to do what could have been done under the circumstances. the likely number two of the state department, john bolton, is saying that the democrats, the democrats, could be responsible for hacking into this election because of a false flag situation. in other words, you do the dirty stuff and then blame it on your opponents. you buy that? john bolton said a lot of things over the last number of years. i do not buy it. and mr. bolton did not offer any proof that this occurred. so until you offer proof, and that is why i think the bipartisan group has gotten together and said, let us take a good hard look at this together and make sure that we know what we are talking about. up until now, whether it is myself or others out there, until you get the investigation done, none of us really know what we are talking about. how did your orientation go? when you first went back to dc and they were shuttling you around all over the place? well, shuttling you around is true. that went great. i enjoy the look into the future of beginning congressman. i enjoy the debates that we had meeting other congressmen from both parties, making sure that we started to develop our offices and our staff and starting to get a foundation built to, in my case, represent congressional district 1. and i have got a good washington staff already on board and part of my district staff is on board. has anything you did not expect? not really. i mean, i just think it is scale. yes. and the awesome responsibility that you have taken on to make sure that when that scale has developed that way, that we do have a competent staff, that we do make sure that constituents see work is taken care of. and at the same time that we do our homework on public policy. planning of scale, congressional district 1, is huge. it is mammoth. you are five hours away by playing just from the district and then to cover the district, you are going to have to do a lot of travel. how are you going to represent all of these people from so far away? well, tomorrow we start our trip through the navajo reservation and then on the way back, start doing some of the cities and towns in northern arizona. and then the next day we go into the eastern part of the state for two days. and then the two days after that, we go down into the southern part of the district. and we will continue to make these rotations through. i told the citizens of congressional district 1 that i was going to be at their meetings and i am going to be there. and last question i have been asking is if all of our congress people, especially when they first get elected, has the gravity of all this sunk in? if it has not, you better not have taken the job. this is serious work. and you need to take it seriously. and the awesome, that awesome responsibility, you told people that you are going to represent them. they might disagree with you at times, but your job is to make sure you know the facts. and that is going to be something that is going to be a challenge on a continuing basis. all right. well, again, congratulations. good luck to you and thank you so much for joining us. we appreciate it. thanks, david. appreciate it. and tuesday on arizona horizon, we visit with democratic congressman ruben garnett. we are the guy ego of district 7 and democratic congresswoman kirsten sinema of congressional district 9. that is tomorrow 530 and 10 here on arizona horizon. that is it for now. i am ted simon. thanks for joining us. you have a great evening. thank you. thank you.