house freedom caucus, femma or congressmen, andy biggs, going to the right-hand. congressmen, it is always this conundrum you guys are in, right? to win over guys like yourself, some of your moderate counterparts then walk away. how bad is this divide if you want to call it that? well, i think you are seeing as normal legislative process. and you have got it right. people push, it is a push me pull you so you pull some people on, you push others off. but i think there is actually, it is really close to having a conversation coming to completion. there is some things i am not happy about. i am still trying to see if i can get some stuff in there to make some changes to make it, at least simulate a repeal if you are not going to keep the promise on repeal. so i think they are going to get something done next week. i think we are going to get something done next week. all right, something done on the healthcare front. that is what you saying get that done and voted on next week? i believe so. i would be kind of surprised if it did not come out next week. are you mad at speaker ryan? and do you blame him for any of this? i am not mad at anybody actually. i do think that what we have had to do is squandered. you guys are always mad. i am mad at my dog sometimes. i chew my shoes, but you know what? but no, i am not mad at anybody. but i do think it is, it would be wildernessing sometimes when you think that we had the strongest negotiating position that republicans had had in a decade. and we could have done a straight repeal. let us just do it and get it out early on. and we did not quite get it done. and we started negotiating against ourselves. and we continued to negotiate against ourselves today. that is bewildering to me. congress, do you need a healthcare vote in place and approved to proceed then with the tax thing? or do you get to a point where you say, we are going nowhere fast on this healthcare repeal and replace. let us go right to plan b and that is a tax cut. i am not sure you actually have to have it, but i do know that some people are trying to use it as funding for some of this tax plan that they have. and so that is really the issue, i think, and that is the bear in the woods on this. many of the president wanted to get a deal on this healthcare thing by the time he would be looking at his underday. but tomorrow, obviously, that is not going to happen. and many are seeing on the fact that despite his busy and blitzkrieg fashion and meeting with ceos and executive memorandum alike, there is no shortage of effort on his part in that regard, but no legislative win. obviously, they leave out neil gorsuch, which was a big win getting him on the supreme court. but what do you think of that? and the propensity to the media now and others to say his first 100 days have not been that great? i think that is a false narrative. first of all, i think the 100 days deadline is a false narrative in and of itself. but he started it, right? i mean, he did say that he was going to get cracking right away, right? well, i mean, every president has a 100 day plan, but i mean, you get neil gorsuch, which is a huge win, number one. number two, what the house has done is we have passed 17 straight repeals for a regulatory constraints in this system. in history, that only one had ever been done. so, i mean, those are big wins. he has signed those. i think the fact that he is introduced this tax plan and we are going to be working on that, that is big. i think the anti-regulatory schemes that he is engaged in, the legislatures engaged in, what i heard is it is already produced $80 billion in savings to the economy. those are huge. they are just not getting reported. all right, congressman, thank you very, very much. enjoy the beautiful letter. good seeing you.