president trump is back at the white house today after headlining two rallies overnight in mississippi's runoff race for republican senate candidates cindy hyde smith, whose campaign has been embroiled in several racial controversies. but president trump's support for her has not wavered as he seeks to solidify republican's grip on the senate. president trump stomping in mississippi overnight, with just hours to go until voters head to the polls for a special election, delivering his closing argument for a battled republican senator cindy hyde smith. this is a very, very special person. you gotta go out tomorrow, vote. we need her. we need her badly. hyde smith highlighting her starch support of the president, a state he won big in 2016. thank you, mr. president. i will tell you, is it great to have the president of the united states here in mississippi? hyde smith is locked in a fierce battle with democrat mike espie. if he wins, the former congressman would be mississippi's first african-american senator since reconstruction. it is a race that is been defined by racial controversy and disturbing echoes of the state's violent past. police are investigating two nooses hung outside mississippi state capitol on monday. hyde smith has drawn fire for saying she would welcome sitting in the front row of a public hanging. comments her campaign dismissed as a joke. anytime i have said anything to somebody got to say i want to apologize. the president defending her overnight. really, it was something that was said and it was a little flipped. i heard an apology loud and clear and i know where her heart is and her heart is is good. and in the latest controversy, the jackson free press reports hyde smith attended an all-white segregated high school and sent her daughter to a similar school. espie argues mississippi must turn the page. i believe that i have been candidate to take mississippi forward. acknowledging he will need a broad base of support to win in this deep red state. i know i cannot win only with black boats. that is never been, that is never been now where we are. we have got to get both some everybody. the states are high for both parties with republicans now controlling the senate by five seats. a hyde smith victory would help the gop bolster that majority while an espie win would give democrats more leverage heading into 2020. and because mississippi is such a ruby red state, there is a lot of confidence, but republicans are so concerned about holding the seat they have poured millions of dollars into advertising. of course, it will all come down to turnout as it always does. and hyde smith is hoping the president's final push will energize her supporters to turn out at the polls today. holden savannah. all right kristen, thank you.