okay, thank you for that mr. gill. i now recognize mr. crane from arizona. thank you mr. chairwoman. thank you to the guests for showing up today. many americans ask me all the time, what is wrong with this country? why does it appear that we have gone mad? and i think this subcommittee hearing is a testimony to what has actually happened. and i know i hold some beliefs that, you know, you know, they are my own beliefs. they are not everybody's beliefs, but i tell them all the time, this is exactly what happens when you allow god to be pushed out of everything. this is what we are seeing, because god has clearly spoken about this. in genesis 5, 2, he says, i created them male and female. and what is really going on up here in dc is just a microcosm of culture. we have lost our minds, we have pushed god out of everything. and it is one of the reasons why it appears that we have gone mad. and one of the reasons we have two beautiful young women here who are here to testify about how they have been abused in sports by biological men. and none of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have asked you guys a single question. have you noticed that? they do not care. they do not hear you. they claim to be the party of women. we got two women sitting right here and they could care less that you are here. all they want to do is sit here and try and deflect and talk about how we are trying to bully transgender kids. and none of us are trying to do that. as a matter of fact, i feel sorry for a lot of kids that grow up with gender dysphoria. it is hard enough to grow up as it is, let alone taking that on and having to deal with that. but that is not why we are here. they do not want to acknowledge why we are here. we are here to protect young women in women's sports from biological men. most of the men, real men that i know, who came from good families, they were raised to protect women. it is something that we are all taught to do. we have clearly failed to do that as a culture and a society. and this hearing is a testimony to that. i want to ask you, mr. layfield, did you grow up in a family where your parents taught you to protect women? absolutely, sir. my parents are here with me today and i am proud of the lessons that they taught me. they absolutely have to protect women. great, great, thank you. then why are not you doing that, mr. layfield? why are not you protecting women? because we got two sitting right next to you who will tell you that not only are you not protecting them, but you are depriving them from participating in sports and everything that goes along with that. why are not you protecting women? so from a fencing standpoint, it is one of the safest sports in the olympic movement. i know that you think swords present some kind of danger or no, we are not talking about swords. we are talking about biological men and you know it. do not try, do not try those games with me. we are not talking about swords. we are talking about the fact that you and other men and officials in authority have failed to protect young girls and it is pathetic. it is pathetic. i am not gonna sit here and try and convince my colleagues on the other side with biology or anything like that because they are long gone. there is no study that i could show them that would convince them that what they are doing is wrong. i am asking you, why have you not protected young girls like these two sitting right next to you? sir, i believe we have protected young women and fencing and it is one of the biggest things. okay, really, hold on a second. let us ask the expert witnesses. miss turner, have men like mr. layfield protected you? no. are they protecting other young girls from biological men participating in sports? no, he glorifies it. miss mcnabb, are men like mr. layfield protecting you and other young women participating in women's sports? absolutely not. do you feel safe? no. you should not because guess what? god created men and women differently and i know that this town and many in this culture have a real problem with that but it is a fact. okay, it is just a fact and you guys know it. you have permanent injuries for the rest of your life. is that correct, miss mcnabb? that is correct, congressman. evil triumphs when good men and women do nothing. not only have you done nothing to protect these young women but you have actually sided with policies that are destructive to young women's sports. you said you have a daughter, mr. layfield? i do, sir. that is sad, man. that is sad that you would not protect young girls from what is going on in this culture and it is disgusting to listen to these posts that you yourself posted. i cannot believe that you are still the chairman of this organization. i really can after hearing some of those posts, calling parents who are concerned about this type of leadership, kkk members, are you serious? shame on you, bro. i yield back. the gentleman yields. i now recognize.