i am going to start with you, ms. franks. i believe you said the government has the right to participate in expressing its viewpoint. is that what you said? yes. okay. i do not respectfully, ms. franks, i do not think that is what we are really talking about here today. we are not talking about the public. i do not think that is what we are talking about here today. i do not think that is what we are talking about here today. we are not talking about the government expressing its viewpoints. what we are really talking about is when the government pays and uses taxpayer dollars to fund these entities that we are talking about here today that actually discredit some of these news sites and drives away their advertisers. do you think that is fair as well? what is fair as for the government to be able to fund projects and organizations that do certain things with those funds that may include competing in the marketplace of ideas and they may be winning in the marketplace of ideas. but the government is not making those choices. and when certain news outlets lose in the marketplace of ideas they may want to blame the government for that, but maybe they are just losers. so, okay, ms. franks, do you think... it is actually dr. franks. ms. what is up? it is actually dr. franks. okay, dr. franks. sorry. ms. yonis here said that when she was looking at these entities and the organizations that they had blacklisted, every single one of them was a conservative leaning organization. do you think that is fair as well? is that okay? dr. franks. it was a different name, so i was not sure you were talking to me. yeah, i am still talking to you. i am still looking at you. i am still talking to you. would you repeat the question for me? yeah, you seem to have a problem paying attention to the questions being asked of you today. i will repeat it for you again. do you think that it is okay that these entities that are blacklisting companies, all of the companies on the list that are blacklisted are conservative outlets? do i think that it is okay for a company, for a nonprofit organization to develop tools that offer rankings? in other words, offers speech of criticism, critical speech about certain businesses? yes, i think that is okay because that is protected first in the minute activity. so you think it is okay for the federal government to be using our tax dollars to basically, through a proxy, blacklist can one side of the aisle. you think that is okay? i do not because that is not what is happening. really? how so? then why are all the companies on the list, the blacklist, conservative groups? i think that is something that conservatives would need to answer. no, i think that is something you need to answer. i have to answer it in any way. because we are talking about censorship here, and there is only one group of people being censored. no one is being censored. misunis here admitted that she is not even a republican. she leans left. yet she is telling us that all of the companies on the blacklist are conservative groups. how do you square that, doctor? i do not have to square that because, as i said, the folks... i know because you do not have to make any sense. do you need to answer the question? yeah, go ahead. the first amendment has certain principles and certain rules. people may not like them. people may disagree with them. people may not like the fact that someone out there may say conservatives are all bad, or liberals are all bad. the correct response to not liking that is to engage in your own speech, as is often happening here. it is not to say, oh, this is censorship or being a silence. it is simply to say, we disagree with what is being said here. try to compete, and if you are good enough, maybe you will win. misunis, what do you have to say about what dr. frank sheiss said? first of all, i want to be clear that this was not just about newsguard and gdi. the government was funding hundreds, at least 300 tools and technologies that were designed to censor speech. some of them were not even pretending to censor foreign disinformation. quote disinformation, of course, that is a subjective term. they were hosting covid disinformation challenges where they were giving grants to companies who showed that they were the best at censoring covid disinformation. covid is not really a national security or foreign topic, even if it had some tinges of that. this was about the government using its authority. the government cannot use its authority, cannot use its power, and cannot use its money. in order to censor views, it does not like. the government has a right to express its own views, but not to use those views to censor. that is where it stops. and the court expressed that in vulow recently, actually. mr. wangart, i am going to allow you to comment on this exchange. i just say briefly, we have heard a robust defense of the government's purported right to speak, which as we have established really looks like a right to censor. and the censors, portrayed as the victims here, but american speech on mass has been censored by the censorship industrial complex on a slew of issues that expressly reflect protected political speech. and if a stop is not put to it, we are going to lose this right in toto. thank you, mr. chairman. i will back. i am used back and i recognize your name.