i stand before you today, not as a congressman from the inner city of baltimore, but as a son of former sarah croppers, who spanned started on a farm in the lowlands of south carolina with no running water, no toilet, but who believed in education and taught their children the value of helping others. my father, the late robert cummings, a man who left school after the foot of grade to fly the fields and to pick the cotton. he is one of the smartest people i have ever known. he says, son, the test of a man is not how much he helps himself. the true test is whether he helps those less fortunate. he would say, son, you go to school to get blessed so you can bless. and that is a standard by which he mentioned me growing up and is the standard by which i still measure myself. and it is the standard we democrats use today. i stand before you because my parents saw promise in their seven children, but my parents did not do it alone. no one does it alone. it was our democratic party. they pushed open the doors of opportunity for me and for millions of children all across this great country. it was our party that fought for head start and good schools. and made college affordable and champion affirmative action and school de-segregation that passed social security and medicare that defended our nation abroad, fought for veterans back home that protected the rights and the pensions of our workers and that made the dream of home ownership possible for millions of american families. yes, it still is our democratic party that check in civil rights and voting rights and voting rights. it is we democrats who fully understand that when you take away a person's rights of vote, you take away their ability to save and determine their own destiny. and it was and it is our democratic party that fights for women's rights, gay rights, the lgbtq rights. our party does not just believe but understands that black lives matter. but we also recognize that our communities and our law enforcement work best when they work together. our party, our party, our party knows that diversity is not our problem but is our promise. and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, that is why ours is the party of unity and not division. i am proud that our party's platform will help not the wealthy, not the 1% but in still it will help our struggling middle class, our working families to disadvantage and to disabled. it will help the less fortunate. our platform has passed my father's test and it is done so not by seeking common ground but aspiring to higher ground. it invisions a nation where we do not mille increase the minimum wage but we enact a living wage. it invisions a nation in which we eliminate the deaf penalty because we as democrats we value every life, black, white, asian, every life. it invisions a nation where we do not have to choose between protecting the environment and creating jobs but we can defend our planet against global warning while at the same time enacting policies that foster job creation and incentivize new startups and bring expatriated jobs back home. it invisions a nation where every child can get a first rate education and leave school equipped to compete in a global economy. it invisions an america in which we protect a woman's right to choose. where everyone can get the healthcare they need when they need it. regardless of their zip code or circumstance, because healthcare in our country is not a privilege. now thanks to president barack obama, our right as americans. and so madam chair, when i say my prayers at night and i look up to the heavens, i see the stars and sometimes i see my father. i know tonight he is smiling on all of us and he like me is proud. i am proud of our platform committing our truly progressive platform and our great nominee hillary clinton and our party's right future. and it is my father and it is my father that bring it man with a fourth grade education but a mind full of wisdom and common sense. and i know he would be proud of all of you and he would say these words that this election is bigger than hillary clinton, bigger than bernie sanders is bigger than all of us. it is about generations get on board. and he would say and he would say these simple words, you are blessed so you can bless others. go out there and vote and do not stop lifting up the american people. may god bless, may god bless america. amen.