we are here at this historic democratic convention to nominate hillary clinton, the next president, and tim cain, the next vice president of the united states. i want to share a little bit of my story because it is an american story. it is the story of millions of latinos and latinas across this country. i am the daughter of immigrant parents from mexico. they came to this country and worked hard every day to provide for me and my brothers and sisters. my father ignacio was an industrial mechanic and my mother maria became an elementary school teacher after raising a family. they owned their own home. they sent all seven of their children to college. my mother and father saved and sacrificed to achieve the american dream for our family. they were not given their success. they earned it. donald trump believes that mexican immigrants are murders and rapists. but what about my parents, donald? let me tell you what my parents are. they are the only parents in our nation's 265-year history to send not one but two daughters to the united states congress. like my parents, hillary clinton believes the united states is a country where people of all backgrounds can make a home and a better life. but that america is not possible if we allow donald trump and his republican party to build a wall that divides us. i stand here tonight as the chair of the congressional hispanic caucus and a proud congresswoman from california, but most importantly, i am here as a mom. we all want what is best for our kids. we want our children to grow up to be healthy, successful and kindhearted. our job is to nurture them and be good role models for them to follow as they grow. now i will be the first to tell you that being a parent is hard, but donald trump is making it a whole lot harder. he has taken the low road time and time again. he is been vulgar and he is been intolerant or as we say in spanish, unseem that whensa. he peddles fear and insecurity to divide the people of this great country. tell me what kind of example would we set for our children by allowing a bully to sit in the overall office? we know that our children are not born with hate or racism in their hearts. they learn it from watching the world around them and following the example of the adults in their life. too many of our children are watching and learning the wrong lessons from donald trump. we have seen it in indiana basketball game where a group of white students started chanting build that wall to taunt players from a predominantly hispanic high school. this is the behavior that donald trump inspires in our youth. a trump presidency would be a signal to our children that we condone this kind of behavior. well that is a message i refuse to accept. who we vote for says a lot about our values. there are few moments in history that have an impact on the trajectory of the world. i believe that this election is one of those moments. our children are watching us. their future depends on the outcome of this race. do we want a responsible leader or allowed mouthful? do we want a president who respects women or who calls them names and devalues them? do we want a president who appreciates the contributions immigrants make to our country or someone who vilifies them? hillary clinton is the only choice for president. she is a president we can be proud of. and donald, let me just say this. america is great. it is the country that gave my family the opportunity for a better life just like all immigrants who came before them. it is because of our diversity that we are the envy of the world. hillary simply knows how to do it and he knows what he needs. we have to respect and respect the elections in november. like i said in the video, hillary clinton is badass and ready to lead. let us win in november.