[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 132 (Thursday, August 3, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4791-S4792]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Veterans Legislation
Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I rise for a moment to reflect on what
was a great night for the U.S. Senate, the U.S. Government, for the
population of our country but most importantly for those who served as
veterans in the military.
Last night, the Senate agreed to significant legislation on three
fronts to make the VA better and more responsive to our veterans.
Ranking Member Tester and I have spent the entire year working toward
making sure we dealt with the needs the VA has so all these stories we
see on the front page of papers, stories about there being unsafe
conditions, stories about people being mistreated, stories of people
having to wait so long for their appointments--we want to put an end to
all this, and we have given the Secretary the tools to do exactly that.
I was telling the ranking member this is called ``no excuses day.''
Secretary Shulkin will have no excuses for any mistakes to be made.
Every tool he needs in his toolbox to see that the Veterans'
Administration is responsible to the veterans of the United States of
America passed in this Senate, passed in the House. There were six
major bills the first 7 months of this year, a remarkable achievement,
a testimony to teamwork, to staff, and to the leadership of the
Republican and the Democratic Parties. The majority and minority
leaders of this Senate made it possible for that to happen last night.
I am eternally grateful to both of them for their support and help.
I am not going to read all the names of the staff now because we are
in limited time.
I ask unanimous consent that the names of every staff member who
worked with the VA Committee to make it the best year ever be printed
in the Record.
Credit is given to captains, Presidents, and people with titles.
Senator Tester and I have the titles, when it comes to the VA
Committee, but the reason the VA Committee was successful in
accomplishing every single goal, was because of every ranking file
member, Republican or Democratic. We took our labels off, we put our
armor on, and we plowed ahead. We didn't say no to problems that looked
like they were too hard. We said yes to solutions that looked like they
made sense.
Veterans of the United States of America have better healthcare,
better educational benefits, and a modern VA to deal with in the years
ahead. I am proud to have been a part of it. I want to commend Senator
Tester for his contribution.
There being no objection, the material was ordered to be printed in
the Record, as follows:
Staff on the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs:
Tom Bowman, staff director, soon-to-be Deputy Secretary of
VA; Amanda Meredith, deputy staff director, soon-to-be judge
on the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims; Leslie
Campbell; Gretchan Blum; Maureen O'Neill; Adam Reece; David
Shearman; Jillian Workman; Kristen Hines; Thomas Coleman;
John Ashley; Mitchell Sylvest; Joan Kirchner; Trey
Kilpatrick; Jay Sulzmann; Ryan Evans; Salvador Ortega; and
Amanda Maddox.
Mr. ISAKSON. I yield to Senator Tester.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Montana.
Mr. TESTER. Thank you, Mr. President.
I want to thank Chairman Isakson for his work on the VA Committee. We
have gotten a lot of work done the first part of this Congress because
we communicated. We haven't put up artificial barriers. We sat down and
all realized taking care of our veterans is the cost of war. We need to
do it and live up to the promises of these folks when they signed up.
We have done pretty good work.
It is not only Johnny. It is not only myself. It is also the people
who have served on that committee, many in the Chamber right now. I
want to thank them for their commitment to making sure we live up to
the promises we made our veterans, but it is about working together. It
is about talking to folks. It is about compromise. It is about not
digging in but moving together. This is a great country, and it was
built by people working together.
The VA Committee is a prime example of people working together. We
set aside our differences. We listened to the veterans service
organizations. We let them drive the bus, to an extent. We worked with
Secretary Shulkin and other leaders within the VA. We have been
transparent. We have been honest when we disagreed. We haven't
embarrassed one another. Quite frankly, this is the way it can work in
this body when we start from a point of agreement rather than
disagreement.
We have two bills already signed into law: an accountability bill,
which holds VA employees accountable to the veterans, fires bad
employees, protects whistleblowers; and the Veterans Choice Improvement
Act, which makes VA the prime payer and reduces out-of-pocket expenses
for veterans. Then, the bills passed last night to take care of the
disability appeals, some 470,000--we are going to expedite that process
and bring it down from 3 years to 1 year.
[[Page S4792]]
The VA will do that. We will give them the tools to do that. It will
simplify it and cut the redtape.
Veterans Choice funding is a fix to allow the private sector to fill
in the gaps where the VA can't provide healthcare. It will help recruit
and retain more doctors and nurses, critically important, and it
expands the capacity in the VA, which is critically important.
Then there is the ``Forever'' GI bill which eliminates the 15-year
limit. It breaks down educational barriers and helps veterans
transition into civilian life.
We have done some good work. We have done some good work for this
body. We have done some good work, more importantly, for the veterans,
and we need to continue on that line as we continue to address
healthcare and we continue to address important issues like tax reform.
It is about working together. It is about finding common ground. It is
about taking everybody's opinion into context and then drafting up
bills.
Chairman Isakson and I have done that, and we are going to continue
to do that. We have some more tough issues to deal with over the next
year and a half, but we are going to work together to make sure we do
it and we do it right. With help from the committee and help from the
Senate, we could have more successes.
I thank the chairman of the committee and thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, we are considering the nomination of
Dan Brouillette to be the Deputy Secretary for the Department of
Energy. Mr. Brouillette has a long history of distinguished service to
our Nation. He is a veteran. He has served in the Department of Energy.
He has been the staff director for the House Energy and Commerce
Committee. More recently, he has held high-level posts in the private
sector--first, as vice president at Ford, currently as senior vice
president at USAA.
He has strong experience and thorough knowledge of the Department he
has chosen to return to. He understands the work that its thousands of
scientists undertake and the importance of maximizing their research
efforts, especially in a time of constrained Federal budgets.
He recognizes the importance of our 17 National Labs and the
Department's responsibility for environmental management, including the
cleanup of Cold War-era legacy sites. As second in command to Secretary
Perry, Mr. Brouillette will oversee programs critical to our Nation's
cyber security, energy innovation, and scientific discovery.
Based on his hearings before the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee, I am confident he is up for the challenge and ready for this
role. I would urge all of my colleagues to support the nomination of
Dan Brouillette to be the Deputy Secretary of the Department of Energy.
Mr. President, I yield all time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time is yielded back.
The question is, Will the Senate advise and consent to the
Brouillette nomination?
Mr. RUBIO. I ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient second.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators are necessarily absent: the
Senator from North Carolina (Mr. Burr), the Senator from North Dakota
(Mr. Hoeven), the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. Inhofe), and the Senator
from Arizona (Mr. McCain).
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs. Fischer). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced--yeas 79, nays 17, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 186 Ex.]
YEAS--79
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Cochran
Collins
Coons
Corker
Cornyn
Cotton
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Donnelly
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Flake
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hatch
Heinrich
Heitkamp
Isakson
Johnson
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McCaskill
McConnell
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Nelson
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schumer
Scott
Shaheen
Shelby
Stabenow
Strange
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Warner
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS--17
Booker
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Franken
Gillibrand
Harris
Heller
Hirono
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Reed
Sanders
Schatz
Van Hollen
Warren
Whitehouse
NOT VOTING--4
Burr
Hoeven
Inhofe
McCain
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under the previous order, the motion to
reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table and the President
will be immediately notified of the Senate's action.
____________________