[Congressional Record Volume 167, Number 216 (Wednesday, December 15, 2021)]
[Senate]
[Pages S9190-S9192]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Unanimous Consent Request--H.R. 6256
Mr. RUBIO. I think this is an issue that has been talked about. There
is a lot of interest in it and rightfully so.
In China, even as I speak to you now, human beings working as slaves
because of their ethnicity and their religion, Uighur Muslims, are in
factories making products that people will buy this holiday season and
throughout the year.
I think it would be shocking to most Americans. I think it would be
shocking to all of us to know that even as I stand here now, there are
products in this very Chamber in the Senate that were touched by and
made by the hands of slaves. It is a horrifying, horrifying human
rights situation--fully sanctioned, as we now know, by the Government
of China, the Communist Party of China.
We know this, by the way. The New York Times had access to these
documents for a long time--and they were finally revealed--that show
that this plan to use slave labor went to the highest levels of that
Communist Party.
I think it is also appalling that it reveals the level of dependence
this country has and the need we have to rebuild our industrial base in
this country and in allied nations. It is appalling because it is a
fact that we are so dependent on China in our supply chain, that many
have asked us to look the other way, to not complain about this, to not
pass a bill about this because it would disrupt supply chains, when
what they really mean is it would disrupt the bottom line, their
profits.
I don't need to explain to anybody how this works. You can make a lot
of money if you don't have to pay your workers or you pay them very
little. It allows you to undercut your competition.
So the fact that we have major American corporations and, for that
matter, national corporations and multinational corporations that are
making money, whose profits are driven by the fact that slaves are
building and making the materials they sell to us, is a horrifying
reality.
We have worked on this in a bipartisan way for 2 years, and we have,
fortunately, now reached a point--and, as you recall, I was here 2
weeks ago objecting to an amendment package on the NDAA to force
action. I want to recognize Congressman McGovern, our House
counterpart, and, obviously, the junior Senator from Oregon, who is
going to speak in a moment here in the Senate. It has been a bipartisan
effort.
We passed legislation on this last year. Differences between the
House and Senate kept it from becoming law. We passed it unanimously
out of the Senate earlier this year, but there were differences between
our approaches. And since that time, where the amendment packet was
objected to on the Defense bill, the House has passed not one but two
versions of this bill.
We are now in possession of one of those two versions, and it is a
version that doesn't have any objections here in the Senate either.
I wish we didn't have to pass this bill. There have been some in the
hallway who have suggested--I don't know if the right word is
congratulations, but commenting on how far we have come. And my
argument is that this is nothing to be happy about because, even when
we pass this bill, there will still be people working as slaves.
I wish that this did not even exist, but it does, and we must address
it. So we are now virtually just a couple of moves away, and it may not
happen today, unfortunately, for reasons you are about to learn
unrelated to this. But we are a couple of moves away from being able to
send this to the White House for the President to sign and for it to
become law.
I think it would be a powerful statement to make but also impactful.
A bill that says if you make things--if you are a company that makes
things or sources material--from these parts of China, you are going to
have to prove that slaves didn't make it before you can bring it into
this country. And I hope that if we can do that here, that other
countries around the world will follow suit.
If I may, Madam President, I wanted to yield to the junior Senator
from Oregon, who has worked side by side with us on this and has been a
key part of this, to issue his comments on it as well.
Mr. MERKLEY. I join with my colleague from Florida, Senator Rubio, in
calling out genocide in China. It is a terrible term describing
horrific acts in which humanity assaults humanity.
Just 7 weeks from now--7 weeks from this Friday--there is going to be
the opening ceremonies of the Olympic Games in China, and there is
going to be fancy dances by minorities from across the country. And
China will be saying to the world: See what a beautiful country we
have, with all this diversity, including people from Xinjiang Province,
the Uighurs.
[[Page S9191]]
Behind those fancy performances in the opening ceremonies, there is a
very, very ugly truth. That ugly truth is that the Chinese Government
is committing genocide against the Uighur population. More than a
million Uighurs are enslaved, and they are enslaved to produce products
for the world for the profit of China.
And I don't think anyone in America wants us to be complicit in
genocide by buying these products. That is what this bill is all about.
It is to say: Companies, when you produce things in Xinjiang, make
sure that the supply chain is investigated and is untainted by these
horrific acts.
This is bipartisan. This is bicameral. This is the best of the
American spirit. And so I strongly, strongly support passage of this
act. We passed it before. As my colleague just mentioned, we passed it
unanimously. And now we have a version that has been worked out with
the House version. It is ready to roll.
So, colleagues, let's get this done as a powerful statement of where
America stands on human rights, a powerful statement that we are
against genocide, a powerful statement that, when it comes to these
human rights principles, we stand together--Democrat and Republican,
House and Senate.
I extend my appreciation to our colleagues in the House, Congressman
Smith and Congressman McGovern. We all worked together on the
Congressional-Executive Commission on China. We held a series of
hearings to understand better not just the horrific acts that are
occurring in Xinjiang but also horrific acts that are happening in
Tibet and Hong Kong. But this bill focuses on the genocide against the
Uighurs. Let's get this done. It matters. Let's act now.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Florida.
Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, as if in legislative session, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate proceed to the immediate
consideration of H.R. 6256, which was received from the House; that the
bill be considered read a third time and passed; and that the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. MURPHY. Madam President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Connecticut.
Mr. MURPHY. Madam President, reserving the right to object, first,
let me thank the Senator from Florida and the Senator from Oregon for
the really important work that they have done on the underlying
legislation.
It is of critical importance that this Senate stand together,
Republicans and Democrats, against the ongoing genocide that is
occurring in China today.
And I will say that, despite all the news about division in this
Chamber, the coming together around China policies, the coming together
between parties over the course of 2021 with respect to the threat that
China presents to the United States and the global world order and the
threat they present to human rights, both domestically and externally,
I think, is important.
I support the underlying legislation, but I also want to make sure
that we have the personnel in place that can effectuate the policy.
Good policy occurs when the Congress steps up and hands the executive
branch a tool that they can use, but we need craftsmen who can
effectuate that tool set.
Pending on the calendar today, I would argue, are over a dozen
nominees who would be in charge of implementing policy in and around
China: the Assistant Secretary for International Organizations; the
Assistant Secretary for Near East Affairs; the Assistant Secretary for
Population, Refugees, and Migration; Ambassadors to Bangladesh, Brunei,
Japan, Sri Lanka, Vietnam--all pending on the calendar today.
But perhaps the three most important nominees who will implement the
policy that Senator Rubio and Senator Wyden are bringing forward today
are these: first, the nominee to be the Ambassador to China, Nicholas
Burns; the nominee to be Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and
Business Affairs, who would oversee this new policy, Ramin Toloui; and,
lastly, the Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom,
obviously critical to the plight of the Uighurs, Rashad Hussain.
In particular, Ambassador Burns is uniquely qualified for this post,
having been Ambassador to NATO and Ambassador to Greece. At his
hearing, he made clear how he would view the Chinese behavior in
Xinjiang Province. He said the PRC's genocide, its abuse in Tibet, its
smothering of Hong Kong's autonomy and freedoms, and its bullying of
Taiwan are unjust and must stop.
Having an ambassador in China in place, having an Assistant Secretary
of State for Economic and Business Affairs, and having an ambassador
working every single day on international religious freedom, hand in
hand with this new legislation, gives the tools and the legislative
authority necessary to get the United States moving toward the right
side of human rights in China.
So with that, I would ask the Senator from Florida to modify his
request to include the following request.
I would ask unanimous consent that, notwithstanding rule XXII, if
applicable, at a time to be determined by the majority leader, in
consultation with the Republican leader, the Senate proceed to
executive session to consider the following nominations: Executive
Calendar No. 525, Nicholas Burns, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to
the People's Republic of China; Calendar No. 626, Ramin Toloui, of
Iowa, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Economic and Business
Affairs); Calendar No. 619 Rashad Hussain, of Virginia, to be
Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom; that there be
10 minutes for debate, equally divided in the usual form on the
nominations en bloc; that upon the use or yielding back of time, the
Senate proceed to vote without intervening action or debate on the
nominations in the order listed; that if a nomination is confirmed, the
motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate; that no further motions be in order to
the nominations; that the President be immediately notified of the
Senate's action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection to the modification?
Mr. RUBIO. Madam President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Florida.
Mr. RUBIO. Reserving the right to object, as modified, that would
mean the passage of the Uighur slave labor measure, which has unanimous
support, and would put us on the precipice and on track to confirm
nominees--Ambassadors to China and important Secretary of State posts
and also the Ambassador for International Religious Freedom--I would
have no objection to that modification.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The request has been modified.
Is there objection to the request as modified?
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, reserving the right to object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, let me just say at the outset, I
strongly, strongly, strongly agree with my colleagues--Senator Rubio
and my friend from Oregon Senator Merkley--that the United States has
to fight genocide and the scourge of forced labor taking place in
Western China and elsewhere around the world.
As the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, one of my special
priorities--one that we worked on for quite some time--has been to
tackle this issue of forced labor. It goes back to work that Senator
Brown and I did in 2015 to close an unjustifiable loophole that allowed
an exception to the ban on products made with forced labor. Not only is
it morally abhorrent, it is also a major trade rip-off that undermines
American workers.
On the Finance Committee, we believe that the Senate needs to look at
every opportunity to protect good-paying American jobs and help workers
and their families get ahead. That means that the Senate has got to be
prepared to tackle multiple challenges at once.
Right now, the urgent issue for so many American families is the
potential expiration of child tax credit payments on January 1.
Families received their sixth child tax credit payment today. It could
be the last if this body does not act.
[[Page S9192]]
Families have come to depend on these payments to cover the
essentials like rent, groceries, heat, and clothing for their kids.
Just recently, I was home in Oregon, and I asked people what they
spend the child tax credit on, and they said: ``Ron, we spend it on
things like shoes.''
And in our part of the world, it gets cold; it gets wet. We are not
talking about luxury; we are talking about shoes for children.
Food insecurity among families dropped by about 25 percent since
these child tax credit payments began. Child poverty has been cut
nearly in half.
This program, in my view, is like Social Security for kids and
vulnerable families. We never let Social Security checks for vulnerable
seniors lapse.
For anybody who questions how valuable this program has been to
American families, I want to just very briefly touch on a few messages
that we have gotten from parents in a cross-section of communities
across the country about how the child tax credit has helped them:
A parent in Kentucky: ``It helped me with fuel for my car and
provided me enough to buy my daughter a few things she needed.''
A parent in New York: ``It's helped take the burden off our family.
My husband lost his job during COVID but since found another job, but
the gap of the job loss was heavy.''
A parent in Alabama: ``I was able to buy my daughter her school
clothes.''
A parent in New Hampshire: ``It has helped me tremendously especially
when school was starting.''
So the message from American parents, from sea to shining sea, is the
child tax credit has been vital to so many American families and
lowering the cost of raising a family, ensuring they can provide that
basic level of security all children deserve.
So at this point, I would ask, would the Senator from Florida modify
his request to include the adoption of my amendment that is at the desk
to extend the child tax credit for 1 year and pass the bill as amended?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection to the further
modification?
Mr. RUBIO. Madam President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Florida.
Mr. RUBIO. Reserving the right to object, as I understand this
further modification, it would say let's take a bill that is meaningful
on an important global issue, something--an important human rights
issue that everyone here supports, that we can pass right now, today,
and send it to the President and he can sign it tonight or tomorrow
morning and it becomes law because everyone supports it, using this
process we are using here, and in addition to that, set up votes on two
nominees and an Assistant Secretary, at a time when speech after speech
out here has been about how we are not getting to these nominees and
Assistant Secretaries--so we can do all that but only if we add to it
something that has bipartisan opposition; that, no matter what, at
least 50 people here are against. It cannot pass unanimously, and even
if it could and it did pass, we would have to send it back over to the
House, not to the President, and the House isn't even in session until
January 10.
That doesn't sound like a good arrangement to me, and it is something
that I would have to object to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
Is there objection to the original request?
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, reserving the right to object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, I listened carefully to my colleague from
Florida, and because of his objection, there isn't going to be an
opportunity for the Senate to take two bold steps tonight.
I already indicated--made it very clear--that I am completely
sympathetic to my colleague from Florida, my colleague from Oregon, to
the fight against genocide and forced labor. They got me at ``hello''
on their proposition.
I also feel incredibly strongly--incredibly strongly--about our
vulnerable children and our vulnerable families who are going to be cut
off from an essential lifeline unless the U.S. Senate acts.
And, unfortunately, because of the objection from my colleague from
Florida, we are not going to have a chance to take two bold steps
tonight. That is what I am for. That is what I believe the American
people are for.
You bet we are against forced labor. You bet we are against genocide.
But we also have had a long tradition of standing up for vulnerable
kids, vulnerable families, and tonight we could have obtained two bold
objectives here in the U.S. Senate.
I think it is unfortunate that my colleague from Florida is unwilling
to do that. Vulnerable families are going to be hurt as a result of the
objection. I just want the Senate to know there was another way. There
was another way we could have stood with the effort to deal with
genocide and forced labor and protected families. They weren't mutually
exclusive. We could have done both. I think it is unfortunate the
Senate is not doing it.
I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.