[Congressional Record Volume 165, Number 153 (Monday, September 23, 2019)]
[Senate]
[Page S5627]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
RECOGNIZING MELAO BAKERY
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, as chairman of the Senate Committee
on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, each week I highlight a small
business that displays the unique entrepreneurial spirit found
throughout our country. It is my privilege to recognize a Florida small
business that demonstrates consistent hard work, a commitment to
excellent customer service, and a desire to give back to the Florida
community. Today, it is my honor to name Melao Bakery as the Senate
Small Business of the Week.
Founded in 2009, Melao Bakery is a family-owned and operated
restaurant run by Eduardo Colon and Denisse Torres. Originally from
Puerto Rico, Eduardo and Denisse have created a place where families
can enjoy traditional Puerto Rican cuisine in Kissimmee, FL, a city
many Puerto Ricans call home. Melao has grown from a small bakery in
central Florida with seven employees into a full-menu restaurant
employing more than 150 people at its two locations in Kissimmee and
Orlando. Melao Bakery is known for its commitment to exemplary customer
service and for providing an authentic, traditional experience for its
customers.
Eduardo and Denisse arrived in Florida 17 years ago from Vega Baja,
PR. In Vega Baja, the couple owned a bakery but made the decision to
move to Florida, with their 1-year-old son, in search of new
opportunities. When Eduardo and Denisse settled in Kissimmee, they did
not move to open the bakery immediately; Eduardo studied to pass truck
driving exams, and through hard work, he was able to establish his own
heavy transport company.
Melao Bakery not only provides delicious pastries and cuisine, but it
also serves as a meeting place for local Hispanics. They have since
expanded their vision through the acquisition of the shopping center
where Melao Bakery is located. Eduardo and Denisse's business has been
honored for maintaining a strong sense of Hispanic heritage by the
grassroots organization, the Libre Initiative. In 2012, Melao Bakery
was also recognized by the Kissimmee Chamber of Commerce as the first
Hispanic business to win its annual Small Business of the Year award.
In 2014, Melao Bakery was presented with the Governor's Business
Ambassador Award for its leadership in creating employment
opportunities in central Florida. Additionally, Melao Bakery has won
awards for the quality of its food, such as Best Latin Restaurant in
the Osceola community.
Eduardo and Denisse have made significant efforts to better the lives
of those in their community, both in Florida and in Puerto Rico. After
Hurricane Irma hit Puerto Rico in 2017, Eduardo and Denisse donated
dozens of generators to help survivors get their businesses back up and
running. Their dedication to preserving the culture and heritage of
Puerto Rico in central Florida has created a loyal customer base and
has made Melao Bakery a community staple. Melao Bakery is a shining
example of how dignified work can lead to grassroots engagement and
successful business expansion. As we celebrate Hispanic Heritage month,
I am proud to highlight Melao Bakery for their dedication to Florida's
Hispanic community.
____________________