[Congressional Record Volume 166, Number 106 (Tuesday, June 9, 2020)]
[Senate]
[Page S2806]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
RECOGNIZING PINECREST BAKERY
Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, as chairman of the Senate
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, each week I recognize
a small business that exemplifies the American entrepreneurial spirit
at the heart of our country. It is my privilege to recognize a family-
owned small business that is not only a Miami staple, but has helped
feed thousands of Floridians impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. This
week, it is my pleasure to honor Pinecrest Bakery, of Pinecrest, FL, as
the Senate Small Business of the Week.
In 2012, Efrain Valdes and Joel Rodriguez founded Pinecrest Bakery.
Years earlier, these longtime friends met in Miami's Little Havana and
formed a bond over their shared Cuban heritage and love for its
cuisine. When Efrain's family moved to Pinecrest, he noticed a lack of
Cuban restaurants in their new neighborhood. Seeing this as an
opportunity, Efrain and Joel opened the original Pinecrest Bakery in
December 2012. Their welcoming atmosphere and delicious food proved a
hit, with lines regularly forming out the door. Soon, Pinecrest Bakery
expanded its hours to become Miami's premier 24-hour Cuban bakery.
Eight years later, Pinecrest Bakery expanded to 17 locations, with 3
more on the way. Their original menu of Cuban coffee and pastries now
includes meal and catering menus and a food truck. Pinecrest Bakery is
earning accolades for its delicious cuisine and emerging as a leader in
the local business community. The business remains family-owned, with
several members of the Valdes and Rodriguez families serving in key
leadership and food production roles. Additionally, their strong sense
of family has built a tight-knit and supportive team.
Like many other small businesses, Pinecrest Bakery stepped up to help
their community during the coronavirus pandemic. The shortage of
essential goods in stores prompted them to sell their bulk supplies of
milk and eggs directly to customers. In mid-March, Pinecrest Bakery
ramped up their existing partnership with Farm Share, a nonprofit
organization that connects Floridian farmers with surplus produce to
local businesses and organizations for distribution. Using its
Pinecrest location as a distribution center, Pinecrest Bakery provided
approximately 200,000 pounds of free food to nearly 10,000 families in
south Florida. The American Legion recognized Pinecrest for donating
hot meals to healthcare workers and first responders.
When the U.S. Small Business Administration launched the Paycheck
Protection Program--PPP--Efrain and Joel applied immediately. The PPP
provides forgivable loans to impacted small businesses and nonprofits
who maintain their payroll during the COVID-19 pandemic. Recently,
Pinecrest Bakery received their PPP loan, which has enabled them to
keep their employees paid and continue their work to feed south
Florida.
Pinecrest Bakery is a remarkable example of how small businesses can
leverage local connections to support their communities in times of
crisis. I commend their work with Farm Share and leadership in the
Miami area.
Congratulations to Efrain, Joel, and the entire team at Pinecrest
Bakery. I look forward to watching your continued growth and success in
south Florida.
____________________