[Congressional Record Volume 167, Number 100 (Wednesday, June 9, 2021)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4012-S4013]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Anniversary of the Pulse Nightclub Shooting
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Madam President, nearly 5 years ago, our State,
Nation, the city of Orlando, and Hispanic and LGBTQ communities were
attacked, and 49 innocent and beautiful lives were lost. It was an evil
act--an act of terrorism--designed to divide us as a nation and strike
fear in our hearts and minds but instead we came together; we supported
each other; and we persevered. We proved to the world what we in
Florida already knew: Floridians are resilient.
The days I spent in Orlando following the shooting will always be
with me. I talked to many parents who lost their children. I went to
funerals and wakes. And I sat in hospital rooms. As a father and
grandfather, it was one of the hardest things I have ever had to do. It
was heartbreaking.
But in this horribly dark time, the selfless courage of so many, from
community members to law enforcement, to healthcare workers, provided a
sense of hope. This incredible strength, love, and bravery lifted up
Orlando and the State of Florida and helped us begin to rebuild.
This week, on the fifth anniversary of this unthinkable tragedy, the
State of Florida comes together to honor the lives lost too soon. And
we vow to always stand up and fight against evil and hatred in this
world.
Now I yield the floor to my colleague from Florida, Senator Rubio.
Mr. RUBIO. Most Americans remember that horrifying day 5 years ago. I
certainly do. I remember it was a morning, and I started getting text
messages that something horrifying had happened in our home State. As
we turned on the news, we could see that it already had been the
deadliest attack on American soil since September 11 of 2001.
And the full horror of that day, of that night, came into focus, as I
remember jumping in my truck and driving 3 hours to be on the scene.
And it would be a few more days, or a few more hours, before we learned
that it was an attack that was inspired by an ideology of hatred by an
individual inspired by--who had pledged allegiance to a foreign
terrorist organization, and in that context appeared there on that
evening. It was an evening of tragedy.
It was, as Senator Scott mentioned, Latin night at the Pulse
nightclub. This was a well-known nightclub in the LGBTQ community in
Central Florida. And one would think no one should ever be--the last
thing someone is worried about when they go out for a night with their
friends is that they are going to be attacked by a radical jihadist
terrorist in the United States.
We had seen similar attacks in London and France. And the realization
that that could happen in Florida, just down the street from a small
business furniture store whose owners I had gotten to know shook
everyone, shook me.
Like most terrorist attacks, it sought not only to bring death but
division and fear, to terrorize; and, clearly, there is a tremendous
amount of pain that 5 years later is still there.
But from it, what also occurred was that it brought Floridians
together, particularly those in Central Florida--first, hand in hand to
grieve and then to preserve the memory of those whose lives were lost.
The outpouring of love and support came not only from Florida but from
Americans from all across the United States who shared in our grief and
drew inspiration from the State's resilience.
Five years later, the process of mourning continues. The process of
remembrance continues, but so, too, is Orlando as united as it was 5
years ago. It is a reminder to us that even with
[[Page S4013]]
all the challenges and threats we face, the threat of a radical,
hateful ideology that can inspire people living here to take such
horrifying actions, is something we should remain vigilant about.
And I want to thank my colleague Senator Scott for allowing me to
partner with him on this resolution to remember not just that tragic
day and to support the national Pulse Memorial but also to extend our
continued condolences to those who suffered so greatly on that evening
and to remind a nation of how we must remain vigilant against those who
seek to terrorize
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President, I want to thank my colleague
from Florida for participating in this with me. It was a devastating
day 5 years ago for all of us in Florida and around the Nation.
Today, I am requesting all my colleagues join us to honor the memory
of the 49 lives lost and come together to say their nation will always
stand against hate and evil in this world.
I will be asking consent for the Senate to pass a resolution honoring
the memory of the victims of the heinous attack of the Pulse nightclub,
cosponsored by my colleague from Florida, Senator Rubio, and
legislation designating the location of the Pulse nightclub in Orlando
as the National Pulse Memorial to serve as a tribute to the victims and
a reminder for us to always stand for love and kindness over hate and
evil in this world. It is also cosponsored by my colleague from
Florida, Senator Rubio, and my colleague from California, Senator
Padilla. I hope my colleagues join us in the effort today.
____________________