[Congressional Record Volume 167, Number 216 (Wednesday, December 15, 2021)]
[Senate]
[Pages S9189-S9190]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Unanimous Consent Request--Executive Calendar
Mr. LEE. If confirmed as Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, Maria
Pagan would be responsible for negotiating details of any waiver of the
Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights agreement, also
known as the TRIPS Agreement.
I have concerns with Ms. Pagan's nomination. Therefore, I intend to
object to that until the Biden administration has given me some basic
commitments regarding the administration's position on waiving the
TRIPS Agreement, particularly related to some of the proposals being
pushed by various countries.
As a quick recap, the TRIPS Agreement represents a vital element of
international trade law protecting the intellectual property rights of
U.S. businesses, individuals, and entrepreneurs. Waiving the protection
of these rights for COVID-19 drugs, vaccines, and treatments under the
notion of some sense of international altruism will not advance a
universal solution to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Instead, any proposal to waive IP protections would create a
disincentive for continued research, development, and distribution of
the COVID-19 treatments or drugs. That could mean fewer healthcare
options and advancements as the virus continues to mutate into new
variants with degrees of resistance to existing remedies.
As always, anytime you weaken one property right, it spills over into
other areas. We wouldn't expect this to become contained to the COVID-
19 universe.
Additionally, U.S. companies would be less likely to introduce their
product to WTO-member countries not enforcing IP protections. That
could mean fewer options and less access for our neighbors, not more.
Intellectual property rights provide the grounds for businesses to
take risks in turning novel ideas into concrete goods and services. A
business
[[Page S9190]]
that knows its property is secure and will not be surreptitiously
confiscated by government action can fully engage in developing the
innovation that drives markets.
Today, in stating my objections, this is all I am asking for. I have
no concerns with this individual in particular; rather, with the
authority that she might wield and the assurances I am wanting to
receive from the administration on that authority, some assurance that
this administration will not unilaterally wipe out intellectual
property protections that have resulted in the vast majority of COVID-
19 remedies the U.S. currently enjoys and have also served millions of
others globally. These are the things that are on the table. All I want
is some assurance from the administration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent, notwithstanding
rule XXII, if applicable, at a time to be determined by the majority
leader in consultation with the Republican leader, that the Senate
proceed to executive session to consider Executive Calendar No. 547,
Maria L. Pagan, of Puerto Rico, to be a Deputy United States Trade
Representative (Geneva Office), with the rank of Ambassador; that there
be 10 minutes of debate, equally divided in the usual form on the
nomination; that upon the use or yielding back of time, the Senate
proceed to vote without intervening action or debate on the nomination;
that if the nomination is confirmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the table with to intervening action or
debate; that no further motions be in order to the nomination; that the
President be immediately notified of the Senate's action and the Senate
then resume legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. LEE. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, there has been an objection. Let me be
very brief. We have a lot to do still tonight.
As the new COVID variant surges around the globe and threatens
Americans here at home and millions around the world, the United States
needs to do everything possible to get shots in arms, including having
the right people in Geneva to find solutions to the availability and
distribution of vaccines.
COVID continues to be a deadly crisis, and we should be working in
every way possible to make sure that the Biden team has a group that
can reach agreement on a TRIPS waiver and any other trade-based
solutions.
I look forward to continuing efforts to talk with my colleague from
Utah. This is urgent business. We have to get it worked out.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Utah.
Mr. LEE. To reiterate here, all I want is some assurance. I
appreciate my friend and colleague from Oregon understanding my basic
concern here. It is not an unreasonable concern. All I want is some
assurance from the administration that it is not going to wipe out
intellectual property protections. That wouldn't be right. They know it
is not right. They give me those assurances, we can move on.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Oregon.
Mr. WYDEN. I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.