[Congressional Record Volume 166, Number 181 (Thursday, October 22, 2020)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6400-S6401]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
RECOGNIZING SCOTLYNN USA DIVISION, INC.
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, as chairman of the Senate Committee
on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, each week I recognize a small
business that exemplifies the American entrepreneurial spirit at the
heart of our country. It is my privilege to recognize a small business
with award-winning innovation that provides high-quality service and is
active in its community. This week, it is my pleasure to honor Scotlynn
USA Division, Inc., of Fort Myers, FL, as the Senate Small Business of
the Week.
Ryan Carter founded Scotlynn USA Division, Inc., in 2010, the year
after the Great Recession ended. Ryan worked for a Cincinnati freight
brokerage firm and identified a market demand for reliable, customer-
focused delivery of time-sensitive perishable goods. Together, Ryan and
his younger brother, Brad, established Scotlynn USA in Fort Myers as a
transportation and logistics provider in southwest Florida. The
business grew quickly, moving in 2012 from their original 900-square-
foot office into their current 12,000-square-foot building.
Today, Scotlynn USA has grown into an award-winning logistics firm
operating a truck fleet and freight brokerage that distributes
perishable foods nationwide. Ryan serves as the executive vice
president, and Brad is in a managerial role. They foster a sense of
community among their employees, resulting in high employee retention
rates, and they prioritize hiring veterans. Ryan serves on a number of
nonprofit boards and volunteers with several organizations, including
Big Brothers Big Sisters, Habitat for Humanity, and St. Matthews House.
Uniquely, Scotlynn USA provides its employees 16 hours of annual leave
to volunteer with local organizations.
Scotlynn USA has received industry recognition for its
entrepreneurship and innovation. Notably, it received early help from
the Florida Small Business Development Center--SBDC--located at Florida
Gulf Coast University, FGCU. They provided Scotlynn resources,
including mentorship, business planning, and access to capital advice
to help them establish their business. In 2019, the Florida SBDC at
FGCU awarded Ryan the Distinguished Entrepreneur of the Year title.
This year, Ryan was named as the 2020 U.S. Small Business
Administration--SBA--Florida Small Business Person of the Year and was
named first runner-up for
[[Page S6401]]
the SBA 2020 Small Business Person of the Year.
Like many Floridian small businesses, Scotlynn USA rose to the
occasion and supported their community during the coronavirus pandemic.
Working with Feeding America, they raised funds for charity and
distributed more than 3,500 free meals. Partnering with Community
Cooperative and Midwest Food Bank, Scotlynn USA donated logistical
support and truck space, enabling these two food banks to distribute
approximately 2 million pounds of food to Floridians in need.
As an essential business, Scotlynn USA managed to stay open, keep
their employees safe, and play a key role in keeping our Nation's
supply chains running smoothly. In April 2020, the SBA launched the
Paycheck Protection Program--PPP--a small business relief program I was
proud to author. The PPP provides forgivable loans to impacted small
businesses and nonprofits who maintain their payroll during the
coronavirus pandemic. Thanks to their PPP loan, Scotlynn USA was able
to retain 214 jobs and continued serving their customers and community.
Scotlynn USA exemplifies the critical role that small businesses play
in investing in community development. Their leadership and commitment
to their customers and employees is commendable, especially during
these unprecedented times.
Congratulations to Ryan, Brad and the entire team at Scotlynn USA
Division, Inc. I look forward to your continued success in Florida and
throughout the United States.
____________________