for his continued efforts and steadfast commitment to furthering social change. we are proud to present such a deserving recipient with the 2016 bet humanitarian award presented by state farm, jesse williams. please, please, thank you, deborah, thank you, bet, thank you, nate parker, harry, and debbie allen for participating in that. before we get into it, i just want to say, you know, i brought my parents out tonight, i just want to thank them for being here, for teaching me the focus on comprehension and over-career that they make sure i learn what the schools were afraid to teach us, and also to thank my amazing wife for changing my life. now, this award, this is not for me, this is for the real organizers all over the country, the activist, the civil rights attorneys, the struggling parents, the families, the teachers, the students that are realizing that a system built to divide and impoverish and destroy us cannot stand if we do. all right. it is kind of basic mathematics, the more we learn about who we are and how we got here, the more we will mobilize. now, this is also in particular for the black women in particular who have spent their lifetimes dedicated to nurturing everyone before themselves. we can and will do better for you. now, what we have been doing is looking at the data, and we know that police somehow managed to de-escalate, disarm, and not kill white people every day. so, what is going to happen is we are going to have equal rights and justice in our own country, or we will re-destructure their function and ours. now, i got more, yeah. yesterday, it would have been young tamir rice's 14th birthday. so, i do not want to hear anymore about how far we have come when paid public servants can pull a drive by in a 12-year-old playing alone in a park and broad daylight, killing him on television and then going home to make a sandwich. tell ruki a boy how it is so much better to live in 2012, and it is to live in 1612 or 1712. tell that to eric garner, tell that to sandra blan, tell that to dorian hunt. now, the thing is, though, all of us in here getting money, that alone is not going to stop this. all right, now, dedicating our lives, dedicating our lives to getting money just to give it right back for someone's brand on our body, when we spent centuries praying with brands on our bodies, and now we pray to get paid for brands on our bodies. there has been no war that we have not fought and died on the front lines of. there has been no job we have not done. there is no tax they have not levied against us, and we have paid all of them. but freedom is somehow always conditional here. you are free, they keep telling us. but she would have been alive if she had enacted so free. now, freedom is always coming in the hereafter. but you know what, though, the hereafter is a hustle. we want it now. and let us get a couple things straight, mr. lois, side note, the burden of the brutalized is not to comfort the bystander. that is not our job. all right, stop with all that. if you have a critique for the resistance, for our resistance, and you better have an established record of critique of our oppression. if you have no interest, if you have no interest in equal rights for black people, then do not make suggestions to those who do. sit down. we have been floating this country on credit for centuries, you know, and we are done watching and waiting while this invention called whiteness uses and abuses us, burying black people out of sight and out of mind while extracting our culture, our dollars, our entertainment like oil, black goals, ghettoizing and demeaning, our creations, then stealing them, gentrifying our genius, and then trying us on like costumes before discarding our bodies like rinds of strange fruit. the thing is, though, the thing is that just because we are magic does not mean we are not real. thank you.