you cannot say it, but you know it is true. good evening, everybody. it is an honor to be here at my last, and perhaps the last white house correspondent. you all look great. the end of the republic has never looked better. i do apologize. i know i was a little late tonight. i was running on cpt, which stands for jokes that white people should not make. it is a tip for you, jeff. anyway, here we are. my eighth and final appearance of this unique event. and i am excited. if this material works well, i am going to use it at goldman sachs next year. earn me some serious tubbments. that is right. my brilliant and beautiful wife, michelle, is here tonight. she looks so happy to be here. that is called practice. it is like learning to do three minute planks. she makes it look easy now, but next year at this time, someone else will be standing here in this very spot. and it is anyone's guess who she will be. but standing here, i cannot help but be reflective. a little sentimental. eight years ago, i said it was time to change the tone of our politics. in hindsight, i clearly should have been more specific. eight years ago, i was a young man full of idealism and vigor. and look at me now. i am gray and grizzled. i am just counting down the days till my death panel. hillary wants questions whether i would be ready for a three-year-in phone call. now i am awake anyway because i have got to go to the bathroom. i am awake. in fact, somebody recently said to me, mr. president, you are so yesterday. justin trudeau has completely replaced you. he is so handsome. he is so charming. he is the future. and i said, justin, just give it a rest. i resented that. meanwhile, michelle has not aged today. the only way you can date her in photos is by looking at me. take a look. here we are in 2008. here we are a few years later. and this one is from two weeks ago. so time passes. in just six short months, i will be officially a lame duck. which means congress now will flat out reject my authority. and republican leaders will not take my phone calls. and this is going to take some getting used to. it is really going to... it is a curveball. i do not know what to do with it. of course, in fact, four months now. congressional republicans have been saying there are things i cannot do in my final year. unfortunately, this dinner was not one of them. but on everything else, it is another story. and you know who you are republicans. in fact, i think we have got republican senators tim scott and cory gardner. they are in the house, which reminds me security bar the doors. judge mara garland, come on out. we are going to do this right here, right now. it is like the red wedding. but it is not just congress. even some foreign leaders they have been looking ahead. anticipating my departure. last week, prince george showed up to our meeting in his bathroom. that was a slap in the face. a clear breach of protocol. although while in england, i did have lunch with her majesty, the queen, took in a performance of shakespeare, hit the links with david cameron, just in case anybody is still debating whether i am black enough. i think that settles the debate. i will not lie. look, this is a tough transition. it is hard. key staff are now starting to leave the white house. even reporters have left me. savannah guthrie, she is left the white house press corps to host the today show. norodonel left the briefing room to host cbs this morning. jake tapper left journalism to join cnn. but the prospect of leaving the white house is a mixed bag. you might have heard that someone jumped the white house fence last week, but i have to give secret service credit. they found michelle brought her back. she is safe. she is safe back at home now. something i am more months, baby. settle down. and yet somehow, despite all this, despite the churn, in my final year, my approval ratings keep going up. the last time i was this high, i was trying to side on my major. and here's the thing. i have not really done anything differently. so it is odd. even my aids cannot explain the rising poll numbers. what has changed? nobody can figure it out. i am not going to say anything. puzzling. anyway, in this last year, i do have more appreciation for those who have been with me on this amazing ride. like one of our finest public servants, joe biden. god bless you. love that guy. i love joe biden. i really do. and i want to thank him for his friendship, for his counsel, for always giving it to me straight, for not shooting anybody in the face. thank you, joe. also, i would be remiss. let us give it up for our host, larry wilmore. also known as one of the two black guys who is not john stewart. you are the south african guy, right? i love larry. and his parents are here, who are from evanston, which is a great town. i also would like to acknowledge some of the award-winning reporters that we have with us here tonight. rachel mcadams, mark ruffalo, leah schriver. thank you all for everything that you have done. i am just joking. as you know, spotlight is a film, a movie, about investigative journalists with the resources and the autonomy to chase down the truth and hold the powerful accountable. that is fantasy film since star wars. i look at that. that was maybe a cheap shot. i understand the news business is tough these days. it keeps changing all the time. every year at this dinner, somebody makes a joke about buzzfeed, for example, changing the media landscape. and every year, the washington post lasts a little bit less hard. it is kind of a silence there. especially a washington post table. gop chairman, ryan spreebus is here as well. we are glad to see that you feel that you have earned a night off. congratulations on all your success. the republican party, the nomination process, it is all going great. keep it up. kendall jenner is also here. and we had a chance to meet her backstage. she seems like a very nice young woman. i am not exactly sure what she does. but i am told that my twitter mentions are about to go through the roof. helen mirren is here tonight. i do not even have a joke here. i just think helen mirren is awesome. she is awesome. sitting at the same table, i see mike bloomberg. mike, a combative, controversial new york billionaire, is leading the gop primary and it is not you. that has to sting a little bit. although it is not an entirely fair comparison between you and the donald. after all, mike was a big city mayor. he knows policy in depth. and he is actually worth the amount of money that he says he is. what an election season. for example, we have got the bright new face of the democratic party here tonight. mr. bernie sanders. bernie, you look like a million bucks or to put it in terms you will understand. you look like 37,000 donations of $27 each. a lot of folks have been surprised by the bernie finalina, especially as appeal to young people. just recently a young person came up to me and said she was sick of politician standing in the way of her dreams. as if we were actually going to let malia go to burning man this year. what happened? bernie might let her go. not us. i am hurt though, bernie, that you have been distancing yourself a little from me. i mean, that is just not something that you do to your comrade. bernie's slogan has helped his campaign catch fire among young people. he told the burn, feel the burn. it is a good slogan. hillary's slogan has not had the same effect. let us see this. i said how much i admire hillary's toughness, her smart, her policy chops, her experience. you have got to admit it though. hillary trying to appeal to young voters is a little bit like your relative who just signed up for facebook. dear america, did you get my poke? is it appearing on your wall? i am not sure i am using this right. love and hillary. it is not entirely persuasive. meanwhile, on the republican side, things are a little more... i am not sure we say this. a little more loose. just look at the confusion over the imitations to tonight's dinner. guess we are asked to check whether they wanted steak or fish. but instead, a whole bunch of you wrote in paul ryan. that is not an option, people. steak or fish. you may not like steak or fish. but that is your choice. meanwhile, some candidates are not polling high enough to qualify for their own joke tonight. the rules were well established ahead of time. and then there is ted cruz. ted had a tough week. he went to indiana. who is your country? stood on a basketball court. and called the hoop a basketball ringer. what else is in his lexicon? baseball sticks. football hats. but sure, i am the foreign one. let us go. well, let me conclude tonight on a more serious note. i want to thank the washington press corps. i want to thank carol for all that you do. the free press is central to our democracy. now, i am just kidding. you know i am going to talk about trump. come on. we were just going to stop there. come on. i am going to stop there. although i have a little hurt that he is not here tonight. we had so much fun the last time. and it is surprising. you got a room full of reporters, celebrities, cameras. and he says no. is this bitter too tacky for the donald? what could he possibly be doing instead? is he at home eating a trump steak, tweeting out insults to angela merkel? what is he doing? the republican establishment is incredulous that he is their most likely nominee. incredulous, shocking. it is a donald lex, the foreign policy experience, to be present. but in fairness, he has spent years meeting with leaders from around the world. miss sweden. miss argentina. miss azerbaijan. and there is one area where donald's experience could be invaluable. and that is closing guantanamo. because trump knows the thing or two about running waterfront properties into the ground. all right, that is probably enough. i have got more material. no, no, no. i do not want to spend too much time on the donald. following your lead, i want to show some restraint. because i think we can all agree that from the start he is gotten the appropriate amount of coverage, befitting the seriousness of his candidacy. i hope you all are proud of yourselves. the guy wanted to give this hotel business a boost. and now we are praying that cleveland makes it through july. hmm. hmm. hmm. as for me, michelle, we have decided to stay in dc for a couple more years. thank you. miss sweden, our youngest daughter, can finish up high school. michelle can stay closer to her plot of carrots. she is already making plans to see them every day. take a look. but our decision has actually presented a bit of a dilemma, because traditionally, the president's do not stick around after they are done. and it is something that i have been brooding about a little bit. take a look. the obama's are staying in dc for two years after the president league's office. he is about to go from commander-in-chief to couch commander. you check top. what am i going to do in dc for two years? i am going to get rid of the london mr. president. i cannot go every day, can i? i wish you liked better these. or these. joe, they are the same. they captured different movies. joe, i need some focus here. come to the near to the near to the time. i am sorry, what is that? i said mr. president, you had to be practical. and look, you can drive again. you are going to need a license. you love sports. why do not you volunteer to work for one of the teams around here? is this a washington wizards? i am going to give him some coaching help. let us just say i coach my daughter's team a few times. hello. hello. already four? finally. so i am going to be in dc for a while. and i thought i would take a driving again. what is the name? barack hussein obama. thanks. well, since you do not have a driver's license, you are going to need a burst certificate. really? really. it is real. is that? it is real. buddy. it is real. oh, michelle left her phone. sit here. huh. she is got snapchat. well, balacare is great. and it is really working. sign up now. breaking news. michelle obama in hot water after posting this video earlier today. obamacare is great. and it is really working. sign up now. no? no. did i get a lot of views? honey, enough. why do not you just talk to somebody who is been through this? i got to go to the sole cycle. she is right. i know who i need to talk to. hey. it is barack. listen, can we get together? now that is a great move. yeah. thank you. thank you. so, you got any advice on that? so now you want my advice? first, stop standing me all these linkedin requests. and second, here's the beauty of this whole thing. you have got all the time in the world to figure this out. you can just be you for a while. if you are not a dude that again. so i can just be me. and i can wear my mom jeans and piece. i hate these tight jeans. yeah, good. the afternoon, i had a beer at 11.30 in the morning. and you know, mcdonald's now served breakfast all day long. you know, michelle's going to be at spin class, so she will never know. right. let it go. you know, it will not be long. you will be able to walk right out of the oval office singing. zip-doo-dawz, zip-d-a. and you got plenty of time to work on your tent. and you know what? i finally got the grand bargain on a sweet, chevy toppil. look here. look here. yeah. what a bargain. we are going to be using the little bargain for our cabana on a 347th round of golf for the year. and it is totally great. and gloria, not a problem for anybody. i cannot think of a reason to care, wolf. and believe me, i have tried. there you go. i am still waiting for all of you to respond to my invitation to connect to linkedin. but i know you have jobs to do, which is what really brings us here tonight. i know that there are times that we have had differences, and that is inherent in our institutional roles. it is true of every president and his press corps. but we have always shared the same goal to root our public discourse in the truth, to open the doors of this democracy, to do whatever we can to make our country and our world more free and more just. and i have always appreciated the role that you have all played as equal partners in reaching these goals. and our free press is why we once again recognize the real journalists who uncover the horrifying scandal and brought some measure of justice for thousands of victims throughout the world. they are here with us tonight, sasha fyfer, mike resendez, walter robinson, matt carroll, and bedbrand lee jr. please give them a big round of applause. our free press is why, once again, we honor jason resign, as carol noted. last time this year, we spoke of jason's courage as he endured the isolation of an iranian prison. this year, we see that courage in the flesh, and it is a living testament to the very idea of a free press. and a reminder of the rising level of danger and political intimidation and physical threats faced by reporters overseas. and i can make this commitment that as long as i hold this office, my administration will continue to fight for the release of american journalists held against their will. and we will not stop until we, they see the same freedom as jason had. at home and abroad, journalists like all of you engage in the dog and pursuit of informing citizens and holding leaders accountable and making our government of the people possible. and it is an enormous responsibility. and i realize it is an enormous challenge at a time when the economics of the business sometimes incentivize speed over depth. and when controversy and conflict are what most immediately attract readers and viewers. the good news is there is so many of you that are pushing against those trends. and as a citizen of this great democracy, i am grateful for that. for this is also a time around the world when some of the fundamental ideals of liberal democracies are under attack and when notions of objectivity and of a free press and of facts and of evidence are trying to be undermined or in some cases ignored entirely. and in such a climate, it is not enough just to give people a megaphone. and that is why your power and your responsibility to dig and to question and to counter distortions and untruths is more important than ever. taking a stand on behalf of what is true does not require you shedding your objectivity. in fact, it is the essence of good journalism. it affirms the idea that the only way we can build consensus, the only way that we can move forward as a country, the only way we can help the world mend itself is by agreeing on a baseline of facts when it comes to the challenges that confront us all. so this night is a testament to all of you who devoted your lives to that idea, who push to shine a light on the truth every single day. so i want to close my final white house correspondence dinner by just saying thank you. i am very proud of what you have done. it has been an honor and a privilege to work side by side with you to strengthen our democracy. and with that, i just have two more words to say. for bama up. bama up.