[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 18 (Wednesday, January 31, 2024)]
[House]
[Page H322]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
{time}  1030
HOLDING DELTA EXECUTIVES ACCOUNTABLE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. Tlaib) for 5 minutes.
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, Delta workers deserve the right to organize
without intimidation from Delta executives. We know that when workers
come together in solidarity, they create a strong, collective voice for
safer work environments.
We must empower all the workers to speak out against injustice in
their workplace, not silence them.
Recently, the Labor Caucus met with Delta flight attendants that are
organizing with Delta AFA as well as Delta workers from Teamsters,
machinists unions, to hear about their unionizing efforts.
I heard many of their stories, Mr. Speaker, about being targeted for
union organizing efforts after decades of loyalty to the company.
This is unacceptable, and frankly, shameful. It is clear that Delta
executives are engaging in bullying, union busting, retaliation, and
even suspension of their employees for their union campaigns.
As a proud daughter of the UAW, I know the power of a union, and I
will continue to fight for every worker to have the right to organize
unions and collectively bargain for better working conditions and
higher and fair pay without fear of being targeted or fired.
Mr. Speaker, I call on my colleagues to stand with the workers and
hold Delta executives accountable for their antiunion tactics.
Honoring the Life of Faye Awada
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I knew the extraordinary woman named Faye
Awada. She was a remarkable woman who left a legacy that has deeply
impacted the community.
Faye Awada's work was rooted in compassion and resilience, and she
dedicated her life to helping others. Born in Lebanon, Faye was the
eldest of 13. She immigrated to the United States in 1960.
Her early struggles as a young mother fueled her determination to
uplift the needs of our community. She devoted her life and assisted
over 500,000 families that we know of with translation and other
services.
Faye was a trailblazer, emerging as one of Michigan's first female
entrepreneurs. Her impact earned her the community spotlight award for
unwavering dedication.
Mr. Speaker, let us please honor her legacy and achievements as we
continue the work that she began. I am sending love and strength to
Faye Awada's family.
``May she rest in power,'' ``Allah Yerhama.''
Violation of the Leahy Laws and Conventional Arms Transfer Policy
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, on January 5, National Security Council
spokesperson John Kirby revealed that the Biden administration hasn't
bothered to conduct a formal review of the Israeli Government's
compliance with international law since the genocide in Gaza began.
Then on January 18, we learned that the State Department allegedly
uses special mechanisms to review and shield the Government of Israel
from consequences under U.S. law when reviewing violations of human
rights committed by the government.
The level of support for Netanyahu's war crimes by the Biden
administration and the majority of this body is beyond belief,
especially when the majority of the American people want the war crimes
to end.
I am proud to have led a letter with colleagues in requesting that
the President and the nonpartisan group called the Government
Accountability Office take the long overdue step of reviewing whether
the U.S. security aid to Israel is violating Leahy laws and the
President's own conventional arms transfer policy.
We should be consistent, but also relentless in assuring that the
American weapons are not used to commit war crimes anywhere in the
world. That is the bare minimum.
President Biden and the U.S. Government have the power to make sure
that we are holding every government accountable that we are sending
weapons to. We must facilitate a lasting cease-fire now to ensure the
safety of everyone that lives there.
____________________