[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 21 (Tuesday, February 6, 2024)]
[House]
[Pages H476-H483]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
ISRAEL SECURITY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 7217) making emergency supplemental appropriations to
respond to the attacks in Israel for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2024, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 7217
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,  That the
following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2024, and for other purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY PERSONNEL
Military Personnel, Army
For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Army'',
$15,221,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024, to
respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
Military Personnel, Air Force
For an additional amount for ``Military Personnel, Air
Force'', $31,934,000, to remain available until September 30,
2024, to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
Operation and Maintenance, Army
For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance,
Army'', $203,683,000, to remain available until December 31,
2024, to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
Operation and Maintenance, Navy
For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance,
Navy'', $507,994,000, to remain available until December 31,
2024, to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps
For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance,
Marine Corps'', $11,094,000, to remain available until
December 31, 2024, to respond to the attacks in Israel:
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985.
Operation and Maintenance, Air Force
For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance,
Air Force'', $81,030,000, to remain available until December
31, 2024, to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985.
Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide
(including transfer of funds)
For an additional amount for ``Operation and Maintenance,
Defense-Wide'', $5,035,750,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2024, to respond to the attacks in Israel:
Provided, That of the total amount provided under this
heading in this Act, $4,400,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2025, may be transferred to accounts
under the headings ``Operation and Maintenance'' and
``Procurement'' for replacement of defense articles from the
stocks of the Department of Defense, and for reimbursement
for defense services of the Department of Defense and
military education and training, provided to Israel or
identified and notified to Congress for provision to Israel:
Provided further, That funds transferred pursuant to the
previous proviso shall be merged with and available for the
same purposes and for the same time period as the
appropriations to which the funds are transferred:  Provided
further, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the
congressional defense committees of the details of such
transfers not less than 15 days before any such transfer:
Provided further, That upon a determination that all or part
of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not
necessary for the purposes provided under this heading, such
amounts may be transferred back and merged with this
appropriation:  Provided further, That any transfer authority
provided under this heading is in addition to any other
transfer authority provided by law:  Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT
Missile Procurement, Army
For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Army'',
$191,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026,
to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
Procurement of Ammunition, Army
For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition,
Army'', $901,400,000, to remain available until September 30,
2026, to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
Other Procurement, Army
For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Army'',
$283,800,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026,
to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
Weapons Procurement, Navy
For an additional amount for ``Weapons Procurement, Navy'',
$10,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to
respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
Other Procurement, Navy
For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Navy'',
$163,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026,
to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
Procurement, Marine Corps
For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Marine Corps'',
$31,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to
respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
Missile Procurement, Air Force
For an additional amount for ``Missile Procurement, Air
Force'', $39,524,000, to remain available until September 30,
2026, to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force
For an additional amount for ``Procurement of Ammunition,
Air Force'', $655,000, to remain available until September
30, 2026, to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985.
Other Procurement, Air Force
For an additional amount for ``Other Procurement, Air
Force'', $4,500,000, to remain available until September 30,
2026, to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
[[Page H477]]
Procurement, Defense-Wide
For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'',
$5,341,516,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026,
to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That of the
total amount provided under this heading in this Act,
$5,200,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026,
shall be for the Secretary of Defense to provide to the
Government of Israel for the procurement of the Iron Dome,
David's Sling, and Iron Beam defense systems to counter
short-range rocket threats:  Provided further,  That such
funds shall be transferred pursuant to an exchange of letters
and are in addition to funds provided pursuant to the U.S.-
Israel Iron Dome Procurement Agreement, as amended:  Provided
further, That nothing under this heading shall be construed
to apply to amounts made available in prior appropriations
Acts for the procurement of the Iron Dome, David's Sling, and
Iron Beam defense systems:  Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army
For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test
and Evaluation, Army'', $31,263,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2025, to respond to the attacks in
Israel:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy
For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test
and Evaluation, Navy'', $105,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2025, to respond to the attacks in
Israel:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force
For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test
and Evaluation, Air Force'', $61,660,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2025, to respond to the attacks in
Israel:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide
For an additional amount for ``Research, Development, Test
and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'', $304,756,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2025, to respond to the attacks
in Israel, including for battle management software and
cooperation on defensive programs through emerging
technologies:  Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS
Defense Working Capital Funds
For an additional amount for ``Defense Working Capital
Funds'', $549,800,000, to remain available until September
30, 2024, to respond to the attacks in Israel:  Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985.
OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS
Defense Health Program
For an additional amount for ``Defense Health Program'',
$1,150,000, to remain available until September 30, 2024,
which shall be for operation and maintenance to respond to
the attacks in Israel:  Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE
(including transfer of funds)
Sec. 101.  Section 12001 of the Department of Defense
Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-287), as amended by
Public Law 115-141, is further amended as follows:
(1) In paragraph (2) of subsection (a), by striking
``armor'' and all that follows through the end of the
paragraph and inserting ``defense articles that are in the
inventory of the Department of Defense as of the date of
transfer, are intended for use as reserve stocks for Israel,
and are located in a stockpile for Israel as of the date of
transfer.''.
(2) In subsection (b), by striking ``at least equal to the
fair market value of the items transferred'' and inserting
``in an amount to be determined by the Secretary of
Defense''.
(3) In subsection (c), by striking ``30 days'' and
inserting ``15 days'', and by inserting ``Appropriations,''
after ``Committees on'' in each place it appears.
Sec. 102.  During fiscal year 2024, section 514(b) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)) shall not
apply to defense articles to be set aside, earmarked,
reserved, or intended for use as reserve stocks in stockpiles
in the State of Israel.
Sec. 103.  Not later than 30 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, and every 30 days thereafter through
fiscal year 2025, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination
with the Secretary of State, shall provide a written report
to the Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, and
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the
Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services, and Foreign
Relations of the Senate describing United States security
assistance provided to Israel since the October 7, 2023,
terrorist attack on Israel, including a comprehensive list of
the defense articles and services provided to Israel and the
associated authority and funding used to provide such
articles and services: Provided, That such report shall be
submitted in unclassified form, but may be accompanied by a
classified annex.
Sec. 104.  Concurrent with any notification of assistance
made pursuant to section 506(b)(1) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2318(b)(1)), the Secretary of Defense
shall submit a written notification to the congressional
defense committees that contains a description of the defense
articles and defense services to be furnished, including the
quantity, approximate value, and an estimate of the cost to
replace such article or an equivalent capability, and a
timeline for the delivery of such defense articles and
defense services.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Administration of Foreign Affairs
diplomatic programs
For an additional amount for ``Diplomatic Programs'',
$150,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2025,
for responding to the attacks in Israel and areas impacted by
the attacks in Israel, including for crisis response and
relocation support for Mission Israel, of which $100,000,000
shall be available until expended for Worldwide Security
Protection to sustain requirements for Mission Israel and
other United States missions affected by the attacks in
Israel:  Provided,  That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service
For an additional amount for ``Emergencies in the
Diplomatic and Consular Service'', $50,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2025, for emergency evacuation
of United States Government personnel and citizens in Israel
and in countries in the region impacted by the attacks in
Israel:  Provided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE
Funds Appropriated to the President
foreign military financing program
For an additional amount for ``Foreign Military Financing
Program'', $3,500,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2025, to respond to the attacks in Israel:
Provided, That funds made available under this heading in
this Act and prior Acts making appropriations for the
Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs
for fiscal year 2024, in addition to funds otherwise
available for such purposes, may be used by the Department of
State for necessary expenses for the general costs of
administering military assistance and sales, including
management and oversight of such programs and activities:
Provided further, That, to the extent that the Government of
Israel requests that funds be used for such purposes, grants
made available for Israel under this heading shall, as agreed
by the United States and Israel, be available for advanced
weapons systems, of which up to $3,500,000,000 may be
available for the procurement in Israel of defense articles
and defense services:  Provided further, That any
congressional notification requirement applicable to funds
made available under this heading for Israel may be waived if
a determination is made that extraordinary circumstances
exist that impact the national security of the United States:
Provided further, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS TITLE
Sec. 201. (a) During fiscal year 2024, and subject to
subsection (b), section 506(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2318(a)(1)) shall be applied by
substituting ``$2,500,000,000'' for ``$100,000,000''.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not take effect unless the
Secretary of State determines and reports to the appropriate
congressional committees that the exercise of the authority
of such subsection is necessary to respond to the situation
in Israel.
Sec. 202.  Not later than 30 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations a report on the proposed
uses of funds appropriated by this title to respond to the
situation in Israel: Provided, That such report shall be
updated and submitted to such Committees every 60 days
thereafter until September 30, 2025, and every 180 days
[[Page H478]]
thereafter until all funds have been expended, and shall
include information detailing how estimates and assumptions
contained in previous reports have changed, including
obligations and expenditures.
TITLE III
GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT
Sec. 301.  Each amount appropriated or made available by
this Act is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for
the fiscal year involved.
Sec. 302.  No part of any appropriation contained in this
Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current
fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein.
Sec. 303.  Unless otherwise provided for by this Act, the
additional amounts appropriated by this Act to appropriations
accounts shall be available under the authorities and
conditions applicable to such appropriations accounts for
fiscal year 2024.
Sec. 304.  Each amount designated in this Act by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded or
transferred, if applicable) only if the President
subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits
such designations to the Congress.
Sec. 305.  Any amount appropriated by this Act, designated
by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985 and subsequently so designated by
the President, and transferred pursuant to transfer
authorities provided by this Act shall retain such
designation.
This Act may be cited as the ``Israel Security
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024''.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. Calvert) and the gentlewoman from Connecticut (Ms.
DeLauro) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
General Leave
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include
extraneous material on the measure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to offer H. Res. 7217, the Israel Security
Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2024. This bill provides $17.6
billion in emergency supplemental appropriations, which will provide
needed military assistance to America's great ally, Israel, and support
U.S. military forces operating in the region.
On October 7, 2023, Hamas carried out a brutal, unprovoked terrorist
attack on the people of Israel. The horrific acts committed on this day
resulted in 1,200 deaths, thousands injured, and 240 hostages, 136 of
whom remain in captivity, and over 30 are believed to be dead.
The Israeli people are still reeling from the horrors of October 7,
but they have bravely pushed their sorrow aside to root out and fight
Hamas and ensure that their people are never threatened again.
Last November, the House passed a $14.3 billion supplemental to shore
up our ally. The bill included:
$5.2 billion in missile defense systems such as Iron Dome, David's
Sling, and Iron Beam;
$4.4 billion to backfill U.S. stocks;
$1 billion for U.S. munitions production, such as 155 rounds and
small diameter bombs;
$3.5 billion for foreign military financing of U.S. systems and
munitions; and
$200 million for the protection of U.S. personnel and emergency
evacuations of American citizens in the region as a result of this
conflict.
These requirements remain unchanged and are aligned with the Biden
administration's supplemental request. They are included, again, in the
bill we are considering today.
Unfortunately, the situation in the Middle East has continued to
deteriorate since November. The Houthis have launched dozens of
missile, drone, and boat attacks on military and civil ships in the Red
Sea.
On January 28, three U.S. soldiers were killed and 40 were injured by
a drone attack at a military base in Jordan caused by an Iranian-backed
militia. Just this morning, the Houthis fired missiles at two civilian
ships in Yemen, one British and one American. We are putting our
military in an untenable situation, and attacks continue to escalate.
Now, we must act to shore up our ally, Israel, and provide our
military with the resources they need to protect our troops in the
region.
The new funding in this bill addresses that changing reality by
providing $3.3 billion for U.S. military operations in the region
funded through December 2024. This includes $1 billion for low-cost
defensive capabilities to thwart future attacks on U.S. forces in the
region.
In many instances, we have been intercepting low-cost Iranian-backed
drones with multimillion-dollar missiles. This funding will protect our
forces and put us on the right side of the cost curve.
This funding bill resupplies Israel's defensive capabilities,
restores America's defense industry to replenish our stocks, funds
necessary operations for our forces in the region, and sends a strong
signal that the United States will not back down.
I am grateful for the support of Chairwoman Granger, Chairman Diaz-
Balart, Republican leadership, and the dozens of Members who have
cosponsored this bill. I am also grateful for the support expressed by
many of my friends across the aisle. We have an opportunity today to
come together and send a strong message that the United States stands
with Israel.
I want to address the position of the Democratic leadership,
including President Biden's veto threat. Assertions that this bill
plays politics are patently false. Last November, Democrats said they
wanted a clean bill. That is exactly what this is. This bill simply
provides necessary resources to our closest ally in the region and our
own military. I introduced this bill because it is the right thing to
do. The only people making it political are those who oppose it.
Tomorrow is the 4-month anniversary of the horrific October 7
terrorist attack, which is an act of war. Israel knows that we stand
with them, and today we can send a clear message that we support their
efforts to eradicate Hamas, the only way to truly bring peace to the
region.
Likewise, our American military men and women should know their
government stands fully behind them as they respond to these numerous
attacks. Terrorists and those supporting them should have no question
of American resolve.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage all Members to support the Israel Security
Supplemental Appropriations Act, and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, 122 days ago, Hamas terrorists murdered over 1,000
Israelis and at least 30 Americans in cold blood. They took hundreds
hostage in the worst attack on Jewish people since the Holocaust.
President Biden's supplemental funding request for Israel, Ukraine,
the Indo-Pacific, and for our border has gone all but completely
unanswered by this historic do-nothing majority. For months our
colleagues in the majority insisted that any foreign assistance bill
must include border policy changes. So spoke Speaker Johnson at the
White House several months ago, and he said that we needed a bipartisan
border security agreement that would open and unlock the door for funds
for foreign assistance.
Yet, Republicans have rejected a bipartisan bill that would
accomplish exactly what they have asked for.
While declaring that bill dead on arrival in the House, the majority
has opted to consider a bill that we know the President will veto. This
is a political stunt that makes it less likely that Israel gets its
funds while endangering U.S. national security. This accomplishes
nothing and delays aid getting out to our allies and providing
humanitarian relief.
Our allies cannot wait, our border communities cannot wait, and our
cities cannot wait.
I wholeheartedly support funding for Israel. I have written aid to
Israel supplemental appropriations over the last several years.
However, I cannot support this bill which falls dangerously short of
what this moment calls for. Our allies are facing existential threats,
and our friends and foes around the globe are watching and waiting to
see how America will respond.
[[Page H479]]
Putin is watching, Xi is watching, and the Ayatollah Khamenei is
watching. Russia, China, and Iran are watching, and our allies are
watching.
This bill does not provide a penny in humanitarian assistance. We
cannot abandon the innocent civilians caught in the crossfire of these
conflicts, particularly in Gaza. The costs of Hamas' rule over Gaza and
the war against Israel are borne by innocent Palestinians. Israel's
harsh response has raised these costs further. Families and children
are facing unthinkable circumstances. Millions are facing starvation
because of this conflict. No one with clear eyes would say otherwise.
Furthermore, if this bill were to become law, there is no path to
support Ukraine. We are witnessing the first land war in Europe in a
generation, and through inaction, this Congress is handing a sovereign
nation over to a ruthless autocrat jeopardizing U.S. national security.
Vladimir Putin wants Ukraine. If he overtakes Ukraine and moves against
a NATO ally, then we will see U.S. troops in a ground war.
If we do not provide Ukraine with what they need, then the ultimate
legacy of the 118th Congress will be the appeasement of a dictator and
the destruction of a free nation.
Our allies and our enemies in Europe and around the globe will know
that the United States is no longer a trusted partner in the security
of the free world. Yet, we know that a supermajority of this body
supports Ukraine.
There are unquestionably more than 218 votes in the House for a
supplemental appropriations bill that includes Israel, humanitarian
assistance, Ukraine, and Indo-Pacific assistance. Yet, House
Republicans are refusing to take that path. The Senate bill acts now to
address the border that is in crisis. The status quo is unacceptable,
but Republicans say no to moving forward.
We should reject this unserious effort, this political ploy, and
insist on a bipartisan product that supports our allies and protects
the integrity of our border.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, this is a bipartisan effort. This is a
bipartisan bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
Granger), who is the chairwoman of the Appropriations Committee.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 7217, a
bill that will provide additional support for Israel, and I want to
thank Chairman Calvert for the leadership on this bill that he has
given.
Nearly 4 months ago, we watched Hamas brutally attack the Israeli
people. Unfortunately, the situation in the region has only gotten
worse. Israel, and now U.S. forces, have been attacked by terrorist
groups backed by Iran. Funding is needed to address the growing threats
we face.
The bill before us provides a total of $17.6 billion in emergency
resources. Specifically, the bill includes funding for Iron Dome,
David's Sling, Iron Beam defense systems, and other weapons through the
foreign military financing program.
To ensure that U.S. support does not impact our own military
readiness, the bill restocks the items we have already sent to Israel.
It is also providing $3.3 billion to support our military operations in
the region.
Now more than ever, we must stand firm with Israel. The bill sends a
strong message that the United States supports our great ally.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the
important bill.
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Minnesota (Ms. McCollum), who is the ranking member of the Defense
Subcommittee.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Member DeLauro for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, our Nation faces two immense national security
challenges, and Congress must address them both: Russia's illegal and
unjust invasion of Ukraine, which threatens their territorial integrity
and the security of Europe; and Israel's response to the Hamas
terrorist attacks on October 7, which has spiraled into a regional
conflict between the United States and Iranian proxies.
Tragically, three U.S. servicemembers have lost their lives in this
conflict.
Our Nation and the world need decisive action from Congress. The
Hamas attacks of October 7 were barbaric, and Israel does have the
right to defend itself.
I have long supported missile defense priorities like Iron Dome in
the Defense Appropriations bill, but this is not the way to get more
aid to Israel.
The Senate and the White House do not support this action. This bill
was introduced to get ahead of the Senate's bipartisan security
supplemental which does address all of our national security
priorities. The Republican House bill plays politics with our national
security, and that is wrong. It is a nonstarter for those of us who
seriously want to address these crises in a comprehensive manner.
Here is how we do that: We do provide the assistance to Israel, but
it is equally as important to get more lifesaving humanitarian aid into
Gaza because if we don't, then the situation for civilians will
continue to deteriorate; starvation will grow, disease will spread, and
Palestinian civilians, most of them children, will continue to suffer,
and many will die.
{time}  1715
Because of this, Israel's security situation will worsen if we don't
do the humanitarian aid.
We need to support our national priorities around the world. Our
servicemembers are working nonstop to defend commercial shipping routes
and deter broader regional conflicts with Iran. They deserve our
support.
We must provide additional security assistance to Ukraine. The
situation there is desperate, Mr. Speaker. Ukrainian civilians will
continue to be murdered, and their military faces a serious shortage of
ammunition. We must remedy that.
Congress cannot afford to ignore any of these challenges because
America cannot afford to ignore them.
We must lead. The Republican majority, in my opinion, is failing to
do just that. If we fail here, the national security consequences we
will face abroad are that we will leave both Israel and U.S. troops in
the Middle East in a more dangerous position when it comes to Iranian
activities; we will condemn more Palestinian civilians in Gaza to die;
and we will doom the Ukrainian people to face a dark future with their
democratic aspirations crushed by Putin's boot.
We will leave our European allies, who have just approved a 50-
billion-euro package for Ukraine, to face a resurgent Russian military
on their borders.
The majority has left us no choice but to vote ``no.''
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, the bill before us today is regarding
Israel. We have time to debate Ukraine at a later date, but today, this
is regarding aid to Israel, which we need to do immediately.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr.
Womack), a member of the Appropriations Committee's Defense
Subcommittee and chairman of the Appropriations Committee's Financial
Services and General Government Subcommittee.
Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, Chairman Calvert, for
giving me an opportunity to speak on this very vital piece of
legislation.
It is our solemn duty, Mr. Speaker, to protect our allies and defeat
our common enemies. I think we have agreement on both sides of the
aisle that we need to do that.
On October 7, 2023, Hamas launched a brutal attack on our friends in
Israel. We have all seen the carnage, the assessment of damage, and the
terrific loss of life in Israel.
This unwarranted and unprovoked attack was a cruel display of the
worst of humanity. We should all agree to that.
Israel is a stabilizing force in the Middle East. It has to be
supported at all costs.
From my time as a commander of forces in the Sinai Peninsula, where I
had a close working relationship with the IDF, to my time as a Member
of Congress on this important subcommittee, I have always been a strong
supporter of Israel and will continue to advocate on its behalf.
This $17.6 billion appropriated will save Israeli lives, and it will
work to
[[Page H480]]
defeat Hamas terrorists. The funding will replenish and procure
advanced weapon systems, defense articles, and defense services. It
will provide for the procurement of the Iron Dome, David's Sling, and
Iron Beam defense systems to combat short-range rockets and support
U.S. military operations in Israel.
Mr. Speaker, in short, we need to pass this bill. I encourage all of
my colleagues to take a serious look at it. Pass the bill. Let's get it
to the Senate and get it to the White House.
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. Wasserman Schultz), the ranking member of the Military
Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to support Israel's
absolute right to exist, to defend itself, and to bring home its
citizens--and ours--who are still held captive after 122 days.
Over those 122 days, President Biden has firmly backed Israel's
response to genocidal Hamas terror. He helped free over 100 hostages
and continues working tirelessly to bring them all home. He has
forcefully countered malign forces who attack our troops and oppose any
future peace.
Meanwhile, for 122 days, Republicans have ignored President Biden's
urgent request: Safeguard our democracy and our allies from adversaries
who seek chaos, death, and destruction.
This abdication of responsibility fails our constituents, our allies,
and our national security interests.
After months of waiting, I won't hesitate to vote for Israel's
defense in this moment of crisis.
I am enraged that Republicans are playing political games, caving to
Trump and the extreme fringe of their party at the expense of our most
sacred national obligations. They cynically pound the table about Iran,
but they are suddenly blind to Putin's wrath in Ukraine and deaf to
Xi's threats against Taiwan. They callously disregard the humanitarian
tragedy facing Gazans, who are also victims of Hamas, eroding our
credibility and undermining future prospects for a just and lasting
peace.
I am appalled that after 3,300 anti-Semitic attacks in this country
in just 3 months, they will pass a dozen nonbinding resolutions only to
turn around and defund basic protections for Jewish Americans.
We could have passed the President's emergency request months ago in
a massive bipartisan show of strength. Instead, Republicans are
needlessly weaponizing these vital efforts to score cheap political
points.
It took far too long to get here. Yet, this bill still falls short of
our needs.
As a Jew and proud Zionist, my conscience demands that I vote with
Israel in her hour of need in this moment of crisis. I won't pretend
this bill comes close to meeting our security needs.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. Murphy).
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of H.R. 7217, the
Israel Security Supplemental Appropriations Act.
In the face of terror and absolute unprovoked aggression, Israel is
in the fight for its existence. The United States must not shirk its
duty and must support Israel. Israel has the absolute right to exist.
Mr. Speaker, the world is essentially on fire. If you do not combat
dictators, if you do not combat terrorists, we are shirking our duty.
Today, with the United States being Israel's greatest ally, we must
support them. We already sent the Senate a support bill. We sent them a
support bill for Israel. We did that barely a month after the Hamas
attack on October 7.
What have Senator Schumer and Senate Democrats done? They have sat on
it. Now, they want to send us a bill to try to fix their crisis at the
border in the guise of support for Israel.
By the way, their crisis at the border, President Biden's crisis at
the border, has cost this Nation $450 billion. That pales in comparison
to the $17 billion that we are asking for Israel.
We don't need gimmicks. We don't need a bill, which hasn't even been
passed by the Senate, that will allow more and more illegals to come
into this country. What we need is a singular bill to support Israel,
our greatest ally.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to support H.R. 7217.
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. Lois Frankel), a member of the Appropriations Committee.
Ms. LOIS FRANKEL of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
bill for emergency funding for Israel and for U.S. military operations
in the Middle East.
On October 7, 2023, Hamas terrorists brutally attacked Israel,
murdering, maiming, and raping innocent women, men, and children, and
taking 240 hostages, many who remain in dark tunnels being starved and
abused.
Adding fuel to the fire, Iran proxies are shooting rockets into
Israel, jeopardizing commerce in the Red Sea and killing American
soldiers on military bases.
Funds from this bill will enable Israel to defend itself and the U.S.
to protect our own military personnel.
Mr. Speaker, I recognize and respect the concern of friends who
support Israel but want other also important issues to be addressed.
Mr. Speaker, the perfect should not be the enemy of the good.
Let me be clear: My vote will be for what is in this proposed bill
and not a rebuke of what is left out.
I fear that a divided Congress will embolden Israel's adversaries and
put our own military in harm's way. Israel's security is our security.
Mr. Speaker, I stand with Israel. I stand with humanity. I urge my
colleagues to join me in supporting this bill.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. Lawler).
Mr. LAWLER. Mr. Speaker, today I rise to show my strong support for
this aid package that will support our closest ally, Israel.
Providing much-needed assistance for Israel and for U.S. forces in
the Middle East region reaffirms our unwavering commitment to
democracy, security, and peace in the Middle East.
This is a funding package that will enhance Israel's defense
capabilities, specifically in the area of missile and rocket defense,
with significant allocations for the Iron Dome and David's Sling
systems and the innovative Iron Beam system designed to counteract
shorter-range threats.
All of these are made even more necessary due to Iran's investment in
weapons for terrorists around the region, including Hamas, the Houthis,
Hezbollah, and others. These groups are expanding their attacks on U.S.
troops.
This aid package should transcend partisan lines. It is about more
than supporting Israel's right to defend itself. It is about securing
our strategic interests and showing support for our closest ally,
Israel.
That is why I was shocked to see that President Biden swore to veto
this legislation, which provides our ally, Israel, with essential aid.
There are no policy riders or poison pills. It is a clean bill
supporting the State of Israel. This should not be political, and it
shouldn't be that complicated. Yet, for whatever reason, Joe Biden has
indicated he would veto this bill, and House and Senate Democrats are
falling all over themselves to oppose it.
It has been 122 days since the terrorist attack of October 7. The
House passed an aid package months ago. The Senate did not act.
According to reports, the Senate may not even have the votes tomorrow
to pass their supplemental bill. Therefore, this may end up being the
only bill in town.
Mr. Speaker, I just can't understand my Democratic colleagues.
Whether you think it is political or not, vote ``yes.'' What, are you
crazy? I just don't even understand the logic. It is a clean bill. Vote
``yes.''
Ultimately, even if the Senate does pass their bill and it does come
here, then we will deal with that. Why would you ever want to be on the
record, on a clean bill, opposing aid to the State of Israel? It is
foolish.
Mr. Speaker, it is my sincere hope that all of my colleagues will
find the moral courage to support this funding package and support
Israel at her time of need while providing critical resources to our
troops overseas. A little common sense here--vote ``yes.''
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to direct their remarks
to the Chair.
[[Page H481]]
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. Himes), the ranking member of the Intelligence
Committee.
Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, maybe I can help my confused friend from New
York so that he might understand what is at stake here and why
Democrats are going to vote ``no.''
I stand here with some trepidation because, for a decade and a half,
I have stood here and proudly voted to support Israel, and Israel has
been attacked. I know that we will pass Israel aid.
Make no mistake, what we are seeing today is a profoundly cynical
political maneuver. For my friend from New York, let me explain it.
Mr. Calvert, Ms. DeLauro, and I were in the White House when the
Speaker--all of 2 days as Speaker of the House--looked at the National
Security Advisor and said that we will do border first, Ukraine,
Taiwan, and Israel. He demanded that. The White House said, no, we
shouldn't bind those things up because that creates the possibility
that we don't get any of that done.
Then, we made very real progress. We have a bipartisan package that
does all of those things. It counters Putin's murderousness in Ukraine,
supports Taiwan, stands with Israel, and provides humanitarian aid. It
offers a once-in-a-generation opportunity to do a border and
immigration deal, an immigration deal that the Border Patrol union has
endorsed.
{time}  1730
My Republican colleagues trot out the Border Patrol every day and
say, look at these poor guys.
The Border Patrol union has endorsed this bill. This should pass. It
is a historic opportunity to stand up for what we believe as Americans,
but then something happened. Donald Trump called.
Donald Trump called the Speaker, and the Speaker said it. He said, we
know how he feels about Ukraine. He said, don't do the border deal, a
border deal negotiated with one of the most conservative Senators in
the United States Senate.
Mr. Calvert, Ms. DeLauro, and I heard Mitch McConnell say: This is a
better deal than we get if Donald Trump is President and we have the
House and the Senate, but Donald Trump called.
I need to put another name out there: Neville Chamberlain, 1938,
``peace for our time'' because he kowtowed to a dictator. That is what
is at stake.
We will hang the legacy of Neville Chamberlain around our necks if we
don't seize this historic opportunity to do a comprehensive security
bill and reject this political cynical maneuver.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, the House was excluded from all
negotiations regarding the Senate supplemental, and today we are
talking about assistance to Israel that is needed immediately.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. Rouzer).
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, I am proud to be a cosponsor of this bill
authored by my good friend from California,   Ken Calvert.
This legislation provides additional security assistance to ensure
Israel, our greatest Middle Eastern ally, survives the most significant
threats to its existence to date.
The Jewish people are confronting the unspeakable evil of Hamas,
which perpetrated a callous, barbaric attack against the State of
Israel, and continues to hold more than 132 people hostage in Gaza,
including fellow Americans.
Israel needs our support to ensure they can win this war and bring
every hostage home, as well as counter the other threats to their
national security. This bill reaffirms the United States' strong
commitment to supporting the people of Israel by providing critical
funding to reinforce the Israeli defense system and does so without
compromising our own readiness.
In addition, it ensures our ability to protect U.S. citizens and
personnel in Israel. We cannot, and must not, turn our back on our
ally. Doing so would only embolden Hamas, incentivize Iran to continue
funding ruthless attacks on Israel, and weaken the security of American
personnel in the region, not to mention the harm it would eventually
bring to our own Nation here at home.
We either ensure that Israel has the resources to win, or we will
eventually be forced to fight the same enemies here. Those who want to
annihilate Israel wish to do the same to America.
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. Schneider).
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, Israel is fighting an existential war
against Hamas, a death cult dedicated to the genocide of Jews and the
annihilation of the Jewish state, while also being attacked by
Hezbollah, the IRGC and Iranian proxies, and Houthis.
There is no question that the United States must support our ally,
Israel, but to my colleagues, I say it is folly to think that what is
happening now in the Middle East is not connected to what is happening
concurrently in Ukraine.
If Ukraine falls, the aid we are providing Israel in this bill is
only going to be a small downpayment to what will be needed when Israel
faces a strengthened Hezbollah, backed by an emboldened Iran,
encouraged by a newly-empowered Russia.
And the United States will likely need to spend billions of
additional dollars stationing more U.S. troops alongside our NATO
allies in Europe.
We are selling ourselves and our allies short by not taking the
responsibility of leadership this country should be taking. If we don't
continue, it is going to cost our kids and our kids' future.
It is shameful that the Republicans and Speaker Johnson are using our
most important ally, Israel, as a political cudgel. It threatens not
only Israel's security, but America's security and our children's
future.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Wisconsin (Mr. Van Orden).
Mr. VAN ORDEN. Mr. Speaker, I remind my colleague that, in fact, I
agree with him this one time. These events are connected, and the
connection is the incredibly weak strategy the Biden administration has
shown. That is why Putin invaded Ukraine and that is why Hamas has gone
crazy in Israel.
Immediately following the attacks of October 7, I went to Israel and
I witnessed what Hamas did to the Jewish people, and as a retired Navy
SEAL combat medic, it put me on my heels.
I will remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that there
was a cease-fire on October 6; that there was a de facto two-state
solution on October 6, and that was broken by Hamas. Unlike the vast
majority of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, I spent my
entire adult life either training for, training others for, or at war
myself.
There is a difference between the conflict in Ukraine and what is
taking place in Israel right now. Vladimir Putin is a war criminal, and
he is after territorial gains. Hamas is a group of savages that are
after the utter destruction of the Jews as a people. They want to
eradicate them.
There is a Member of the other party that has been censured on this
floor for grossly anti-Semitic remarks, and that is what is taking
place.
Do not be fooled by this political rhetoric. I stand with the Jewish
people now. I will stand with them from the beginning to the end, so
the river to the sea never takes place.
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr. Khanna).
Mr. KHANNA. Mr. Speaker, I will vote ``no'' today on the $17 billion
aid package which provides a blank check to Netanyahu, Ben-Gvir, and
the extreme rightwing government in Israel.
How dare Ben-Gvir, Israel's national security minister, have the gall
to criticize America while calling for the mass expulsion of
Palestinians?
I will vote ``no'' because this bill includes zero humanitarian aid
while children are dying and 400,000 Gazans face famine.
I will vote ``no'' because this bill undermines human rights and
international law, ignoring the recent ICJ decision calling on Israel
to do more to protect Palestinian civilians.
I will vote ``no'' because it is painfully obvious to the entire
world that what is needed today is a permanent cease-fire and the
release of all hostages.
[[Page H482]]
There come moments in a Nation's history when our actions reveal our
values. This is such a moment. We must stand for stopping the bombing,
for ending this brutal war, and for justice in the Middle East with a
Palestinian state with equal rights living side by side with Israel.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. Ocasio-Cortez).
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ. Mr. Speaker, more than 1,200 Israelis were killed
on October 7 and 136 remain hostage. In response, 27,478 Palestinians
have been killed, 70 percent of whom are women and children, and most
Gazans today cannot reach a fully functioning hospital.
This is not war; this is slaughter.
And yet, after all this destruction and devastation, the Netanyahu
government is still nowhere close to their stated objective of
destroying Hamas.
Moreover, the United States has our own requirements outlawing the
transfer of weapons to forces engaged in gross human rights violations.
We have a responsibility to honor those laws, to facilitate a bilateral
cease-fire, to move to end this campaign of mass casualty and loss of
life that risk bringing the entire region closer to a wider, deadlier
conflict.
This bill contains $17 billion on top of the billions we already
transfer every year with no conditions and no humanitarian aid for the
most vulnerable. Everyday Americans should not tolerate this
squandering of our resources without oversight on such an inhumane and
ineffective operation, especially when we are living paycheck to
paycheck, and they cannot see their Congress address their most basic
material concerns.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. Tlaib).
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, here we go again, sending $17.6 billion of
U.S. tax dollars with no conditions attached to Netanyahu's extremist
government to drop more bombs on innocent Palestinians.
The Israeli Government has already killed 27,000 people, 11,500 of
whom were children.
I am tired of my colleagues coming to me, whispering: I don't really
like Netanyahu. Well, then, why are we sending him billions of dollars
with no conditions?
He literally is telling us over and over again what his intention is.
I am tired of my colleagues coming to me and whispering to me:
Rashida, I support a two-state solution. Great. Then send money that
has conditions for a two-state solution because Netanyahu has over and
over again told us he never wants to see a Palestinian state.
I am tired. I oppose Netanyahu's war crimes and want him gone, too,
but many of my colleagues that continue to tell me that do not want a
condition to aid. They will just give it to a genocidal maniac.
My message to my colleagues is simple: If you don't support
Netanyahu, if you are disgusted by the countless videos of lifeless
children pulled out of the rubble, if you actually believe in upholding
human rights and international law, vote ``no'' on a blank check to
Netanyahu's genocide.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, the folks that believe in genocide is
Hamas.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. Diaz-Balart), the Chairman of the State and Foreign Operations
Subcommittee.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, let me first thank the gentleman from
California, Chairman Calvert, for his leadership in drafting this
critical bill, along with Chairwoman Kay Granger and the leadership for
bringing this forward.
Mr. Speaker, as Mr. Calvert just said, yes, there has been genocide,
but the genocide has been from Hamas.
If the world needed yet another reminder of the importance of Israel
as a safe haven for the Jewish people, then the attacks of October 7
should be that wake-up call.
This is not that complicated. I have been disgusted and shocked by
some of the things we have been hearing, including the sheer glee
displayed in celebrations even in this country because of the murders
on October 7.
Remember, those grotesque celebrations and demonstrations happened
before Israel even began its military action to defend Israelis in
Gaza.
Let's be clear: Those demonstrations, those statements, those
celebrations were and are in favor of the terrorist group Hamas. The
despicable anti-Semitism which has dramatically increased since October
7, that we have even seen here sometimes on this floor, has to be
condemned and has to stop.
Israel is on the front line in the battle against terrorism--the
terrorists of Hamas, Hezbollah, ISIS, you name it. All of them continue
to wait for an opportunity to strike at Israel, as they have, just like
they want to strike here at the American people of the United States.
Israel and the United States do not want violence, but the problem is
that the terrorists do, and they are the ones who have killed and
butchered and maimed innocent Israelis.
Last November, the House passed another Israel security supplemental,
which was fully offset by a rescission of the IRS funding, and that was
the reason why the White House claimed that they opposed that bill.
Now, there are zero excuses to oppose this bill. This bill does one
thing, Mr. Speaker. It provides urgently needed funding for our friend
and ally, Israel, to defeat the terrorists that they are dealing with.
The United States must stand with Israel to eradicate terrorism.
This is not that complicated. You can use every excuse in the world
with the purpose of supporting Hamas and justifying the murders. This
bill stands with Israel--no ifs, no ands, no buts.
Mr. Speaker, I am grateful to Chairman Calvert for bringing this
important piece of legislation, and I wholeheartedly support it.
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. Lee), the distinguished ranking member of the State and
Foreign Operations Subcommittee.
{time}  1745
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding and for her strong, strong leadership.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to oppose H.R. 7217. The United States and the
world are facing a very dangerous time, with the risk of being pulled
deeper and deeper into conflicts across the globe. Meanwhile, millions
of people around the world are facing violence, dislocation, and
hunger. This bill really is not a serious effort.
As the ranking member of the State, Foreign Operations, and Related
Programs Subcommittee, I cannot support a bill that fails to meet the
challenges of this moment and abandons those most in need of
humanitarian assistance. Yes, this bill undermines the United States'
policy which supports a two-state solution. This bill is a blatant
political stunt that is dead on arrival in the Senate, and so I urge my
colleagues to oppose it.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, may I inquire how much time is remaining on
both sides.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Ellzey). The gentleman from California
has 30 seconds remaining.
The gentlewoman from Connecticut has 2 minutes remaining.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time to close.
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, a short while ago, my colleague from
Arkansas said it is our solemn duty to protect our allies. Indeed, it
is our solemn duty to protect our allies. Our ally in this case is
Israel, yes, and we support Israel. Our ally is Ukraine, and we need to
continue to support Ukraine. Our ally is Taiwan, and we need to support
Taiwan.
We have a solemn duty, yes, to provide humanitarian assistance to
innocent civilians. We have a solemn duty to protect our border. These
are not the issues that are part of this bill. This bill does not meet
those solemn obligations.
My Republican colleagues do not want to help Ukraine or the Indo-
Pacific and Taiwan. They do not want to address border security. They
talked about border security as being the key to opening up the door to
foreign assistance. They said it in the White House--the Speaker did
that--and now they have walked away from it. It is really a political
sham. They do not
[[Page H483]]
want to promote humanitarian assistance and leave millions of innocent
civilians without food, shelter, and clothing.
When I asked about Gaza in a conversation with the Director of the
World Food Programme, Cynthia McCain, she said to me: Rosa, these
people are starving. It is a famine. I believe that in this process of
providing assistance to just Israel and not our other allies, they do
hurt Israel and isolate Israel. It is time for my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle to put our country and our national security
ahead of partisan politics. What we should do is to vote this bill
down.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time to
close.
The gentlewoman is correct. This bill is not about Ukraine or
INDOPACOM or some other things that I would love to have some
discussions about in the future. This is about Israel.
I think my friends on the other side of the aisle know I am not a
cynical person. I have been in favor of moving an Israel bill for some
time, and now is the time. I think it is just simply the right thing to
do.
Let's pass this bill. Let's support Israel.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 7217, the Israel
Security Supplemental Appropriations Act. As tensions grow in the
Middle East, the state of affairs is becoming increasingly dangerous
for the Israeli people and United States servicemembers. Israel is our
strongest ally in the Middle East, and the Israeli people are still
recovering from the horrific October 7th terrorist attacks. This
standalone Israel supplemental package ensures our great ally has the
resources and tools they need to defeat Hamas, as well as provide
important funding for our military forces in the region to deter
terrorists and other enemies. The United States must send a clear
message to the rest of the world--that we will continue to stand with
Israel. I proudly support that message and will vote yes on this
legislation. I encourage my colleagues to stand with our great ally
Israel, and vote yes on this bill.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, and still I rise. Let me be
absolutely clear, I vehemently oppose the ideology and actions of Hamas
as demonstrated by my vote in favor of H. Res. 793, which, among other
things, condemned Hamas for attacking Israel, taking hostages, and for
threatening hostages. Moreover, I have voted in favor of over $50
billion in funding for Israel. The Israeli people have suffered a grave
injustice. However, committing an injustice in the name of justice is
still an injustice. We must take care not to fall into the belief that
any action taken in war is justified, especially the mass killing of
innocent Palestinian babies when war has been declared on Hamas.
Today, I am compelled to vote against the Israel Supplemental
Legislation that Speaker Johnson brought to the floor. I take this
stance because of the humanitarian disaster that now exists in Gaza.
This bill's narrow focus on only providing military aid to Israel, with
no accompanying humanitarian aid for the innocent civilians of Gaza, is
unconscionable. I cannot ignore the men, women, and especially children
in Gaza who are suffering through catastrophic conditions resulting
from Israel's war on Hamas. Babies have lost their parents and parents
have lost their children to artillery and bombs that were paid for in
whole or in part because of U.S. funds provided to Israel. I will not
be complicit in the slaughter of innocent babies. Furthermore, the mass
destruction in Gaza has resulted in the decimation of homes and
infrastructure and has made Gaza unlivable.
The lack of meaningful humanitarian aid from this legislation at a
time when Gazan civilians are at risk of starvation, disease, and death
is unconscionable. For these and other reasons, I oppose this
legislation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the
gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 7217.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.
____________________