[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 10 (Thursday, January 18, 2024)]
[House]
[Pages H194-H195]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
{time}  1030
DTE WINTER OUTAGES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. Tlaib) for 5 minutes.
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, DTE Energy, an investor-owned utility
monopoly in southeast Michigan, charges some of the highest rates in
our Nation but provides some of the most unreliable service. They also
carry out hundreds of thousands of cruel utility shutoffs per year.
Over 100,000 DTE customers in southeast Michigan were forced to go
days without power and heat during extreme cold and hot weather. This
is because, instead of investing in reliability, DTE invests in profits
and pays their shareholders and executives first. DTE's own CEO makes
$10 million a year while families in southeast Michigan are going
without power, again, during some of the coldest days this past week.
Investor-owned utilities like DTE have failed to invest in the
infrastructure upgrades to the grid that are necessary to prevent these
outages. Instead, they are choosing to maximize profits for their
shareholders while spending millions on campaign contributions to avoid
real accountability in Lansing.
My residents are sick and tired of wealthy corporate executives
lining their pockets while our neighbors are exploited and price
gouged. That is why I am proud to have introduced a resolution with
Congresswoman Cori Bush and Congressman Jamaal Bowman. It is a
resolution recognizing the human right to utilities.
It is important that we understand that access to utilities is not a
privilege. It is a fundamental human right. In the richest country on
Earth, every single family should not go without electricity, heat, and
water.
We need utilities that serve the people, not shareholders. We need to
take the profit motive out of the services we all need to live and
thrive.
Yemen Strikes
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I stand in solidarity with the billions of
people all around the world who are demanding a cease-fire now.
The majority of Americans support de-escalation and a lasting cease-
fire, yet the President has threatened to escalate this into a regional
war instead
[[Page H195]]
of doing anything to stop Netanyahu's genocidal bombing campaign.
Palestinians in Gaza and the West Bank are being murdered by American
weapons funded by our tax dollars. Lebanese national civilians are
being killed, and now the Yemeni people are under threat.
Prior to the Israeli Government's assault on Gaza, Yemen was facing
the worst humanitarian crisis on Earth, with much of the population
living on the brink of famine.
President Biden was legally required to seek authorization from
Congress prior to launching these strikes. He did not do so and, as a
result, has violated the United States Constitution. This is completely
unacceptable.
Many of my colleagues have correctly called out the Biden
administration for bypassing Congress. The American people do not want
to be dragged into yet another endless war in the Middle East.
Zeta Phi Beta Sorority Founders' Day
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, today I rise with immense pride and joy in
recognizing and celebrating the Founders' Day of Zeta Phi Beta
Sorority, Incorporated.
This marks a time of reflection, appreciation, and unity for a
sisterhood committed to the service of others.
Zeta Phi Beta was founded on the principles of scholarship, service,
sisterhood, and finer womanhood. This sisterhood has fostered academic
excellence and empowerment in our communities. From educational
initiatives to advocating for social justice, Zeta Phi Beta has been a
force for good.
We continue to honor the vision of our founders: Arizona Cleaver
Stemons, Pearl Anna Neal, Myrtle Tyler Faithful, and Viola Tyler
Goings.
Happy Founders' Day to my sorors of Zeta Phi Beta. I am so proud to
be a part of the sisterhood. To all of the January D9 family, happy
Founders' Day. May their commitment to excellence and service continue
to inspire us all.
____________________