this is absolutely incredible. it is friday afternoon. the cars can be seen assembling at the mcdonald batspar hotel, which is the rally hq for the inaugural lombard rally balfe. what a selection there is. in 1960s minis, volkswagen beetles, porsche 911 and 911 460s. through many ford escorts, toyota's, vauxhall chewettes and triumph tr-7 v8 from the 1970s. two opel mantas, rover sd-1's and audi quattro's from the 1980s. name search and blogquist, mccray, 8-kin walker and llewellin in attendance. the spectators are in for a treat the following day. saturday morning and the cars make their way from the mcdonald batspar hotel and travel the short distance to the start at great pultney street to replicate the scene from 1976, 1918, 1983 and 1986 lombard rac rallies when the event started and finished here. over 120 cars made the start, led away by the welsh rally winning mini of the late great barry wieso williams, accrued here by andy ace harrison with peter scott sat beside him. as the cars left batham headed towards the first stage of the day at longleet house, the fogger descended turning the morning into a traditional lombard rally from years gone by. a quick coffee break at the second stage held at crickets and thomas before the cars travel across the stage which is being run in the reverse direction of the 1976 rac rally event. on top of his compound which had been stage 45 in 1976 where joint fastest were roger clark and penty o'rickler stopping the clocks at one minute 53 seconds. penty was leading the rally at this time but roger would be the eventual rally winner both of them in four scores. having taken lunch at the beach hotel in minehead, the crews were nearing the end of the day but still had one more stage to tackle the iconic paul ock-tol-rohg. having left paul ock-tol-rohg, crews made their way back to the rally hq in bath where they were able to relax and evening with a beer or two chatting and listening to guest speakers who were reliving moments during the organised meal. jimmy and i fought very hard for the whole event. he said that the clatch would be there for you but he did not believe me. he told him not to worry about the lights when i was catching him on the stage. but jimmy by nine seconds the scariest fit was at the end of the last stage margaret was there. oh, margaret mccray got me by the year. she did and she turned it very hard and she said this is the fifth time jimmy is being second on this event you little welsh ****. i do such a job.