hello there, dear voters. my name is scott peters and i am currently the incumbent for california's 50-second district. you may wonder, why will not for me in this upcoming election? well, in my close to five years in office, i have helped pass the patient production and affordable care act, a bill which allows millions of americans across this country to obtain health care at a very low cost. as a result of many of my efforts to improve the health care coverage, this past year i was awarded the 2014 visionary award by the nonpartisan california health care institute for incorporating wireless technologies into the federal health care system as a result of the health savings through technology acts which i introduced. among the other bills i have proposed last the igniting american research act, which offers tax credits to institutions involved educational research. this bill would greatly help this district which accounts with one of the biggest research institutions in this nation, that being ucsd. while also increasing the number of job opportunities in america, as some scholars and political scientists predict it will generate over 150,000 jobs, therefore increasing the country's gdp by $66 billion. another bill i have proposed and have recently reintroduced to congress, as i know it is of interest of many of you, is the federal student loan refining act, which aims to lower student loans interest rates. all this, in an effort to make it easier for you out there to obtain higher education, because i believe everyone should be given the opportunity to go to college. this would also help the thousands of students who are already in one of our top three district universities, and have been left to take out loans in an effort to pay for such education. for all the veterans out there in our district, i have introduced in my time in congress the 21st century care act for military and veterans, which aims to expand the health coverage given to new service members. it is the least i can do, draw the hard work you do in an effort to help this country. i am currently also working on another campaign titled fixed congress now, which you can check in my website. it aims to fix the way congress currently runs. with this campaign, i plan on making it mandatory for congress members to work at least five days a week like many americans out there, as well as place a limit of 60 days in order to pass the bill. along with increasing transparency by requiring members to disclose insurance subsidies and the amounts they spend on congressional trips. however, most importantly, i want to make government green or more eco-friendly by installing renewable energy programs in our federal buildings, as well as cutting down on our paper waste. i know protecting the planet is something many are you are worried about, especially after the recent drought our state has been through, but by installing such eco-friendly programs in our district and in our country, we can improve the state of our planet. remember, by fixing congress, we will therefore be able to build a better country and a better district. i am a fair believer at the foundation to creating a better nation, lies within each and every one of us. please continue giving me the opportunity to help and improve san diego, as well as for tuck your rights. i believe that we should all be treated with dignity and respect. that is why, among my major endorsers, lies the human rights campaign, which knows that i am the right candidate to continue defending our rights. hope you have an awesome year and do not forget to vote, scott feeters for congress, this upcoming november. thank you.