i feel that you have found someone that is going to fight for our principles. i ask you not to stand on the sidelines. i ask you to get involved. congressional candidate carl demayo is coming under fire tonight by his opponent for a 2011 speech that he gave to local tea party members while running for mayor. demayo and congressman scott peters are locked in a heated race for the 52nd congressional district today in the first big attack in this election. the peters campaign released a recording of the speech accusing demayo of aligning himself with the tea party. and so i would ask you the tea party. folks that i believe are now the conscience of the accountable government movement. i ask you to exercise that role in this coming election. something else is political consultant laura think. and laura as you look at that what kind of an impact could a speech from three years ago have? kimberly the tea party is a dirty word in the 52nd congressional district. so the accusation could be incredibly powerful. in poll after poll after poll that i have seen over the years covering this district it is clear that a tea party republican is not who they want. this is a moderate district and they would like someone that reflects their values. now it is clear that carl the maya have affiliated himself with the tea party up. and so now we know that he was supported by groups that fund the tea party nationally but these are his own words. so this is a tough hit for him to take particularly as he works to make himself more of a moderate and position himself in that way. and here is a look now at the most recent ten news ut san diego scientific poll which shows demayo in the lead with 51% of the vote to peters with 44% of the likely voters. so as we look at this how narrow are the margins if in fact some of the swing voters go one way or the other in this case. this is going to be an incredibly close race. you are looking at a snapshot over a hundred days outside the election. we know a lot can change right now. national reporters the rothenburg political report the cook political report say this is a pure toss up. so you are going to see some swinging from here till november. and that is probably why the statements are beginning to come out. carl demayo spoke's person issued this response late this afternoon. it is laughable that scott peters had to resort to deceptively splicing video clips completely out of context in order to call the gay pro choice government reformer on extremists. well scott peters tactics show why washington is broken and why he must go. what is your reaction to carl? well you will note that you know if you are if you are on defense you are losing. so carl goes immediately on offense here. you will know that the two candidates are really trying to define one another. here you see carl going after scott is a washington insider. scott will come back and say he is been there seven months and he is a bipartisan consensus builder. and carl really has to defend his turf because his own words have to find him in this instance. it is really going to be a race to watch. it is going to be his off-site. yeah, it is already coming out swing. and demayo speech on pension reform is on our entire website. you can watch the entire clip. they are unedited by the peters camp. go to tennews.com.