i am patrick gollum and i have had the pleasure of the last four months to be filmstats campaign manager and i just want to let you know that the ap has just called the race and i would like to introduce to you the next lieutenant governor of the state of amago. thank you very much. that is better applause than if i announced that the fire was going to open back up. i wrote this and so now i am going to have a chance to say it. so i appreciate you all hanging in there and i am very appreciative of the support of wbv for being the first to to call this one. thank you very much. well it is been a tough road and we started this journey about 11 months ago. it was december 2nd i believe in in chittan county. i want to thank all of you for being here tonight and to support me and to support all of our candidates. my success tonight is not just my success alone. we ran a very strong campaign and it takes a whole lot more than one person to win a race like this one. there is so many little pieces that are all equally important like spokes on a wheel and we cannot do anything without the wheel analogy. without without each spoke lending equal support the wheel does not hold up. looking back at the campaign there were a lot of memorable folks that formed that wheel and that propelled us forward to this very moment. so i am going to go through some of them. dick mazza was the first one. senator from randall. i can always say thank you other than that. i mean you put the partisan aside and he has so much integrity and he has so much faith in me. truly truly the man of tom and sense and decency. so i thank him as much as anybody else because he was one of the first to do that. thunder cow. thunder cow. many other toys and props we had along the way. race cars, modeles. you name it we probably had it. we definitely use our imagination along this journey. endorsements and support from many business groups. the first ones in the primary i have got to thank the egc the auto dealers in particular the nra. it takes a lot to stick your neck out in those times. legislators there were so many legislators who came out but i think about the first one. i think that was the first one to step forward. but tom cots and andonny who worked far behind and they wrote some very nice pieces of the paper and support of bill doyle as well. the race to victory tour. that was a really unique experience as we went through the state signing up new voters. they were disenfranchised and they had not. it was just incredible throughout the state. the number of people that were not signed up to vote. so we went through some of those dealerships and started signing them up and now they are registered and proud of it. so i think we can all be proud of that. we are going to continue that because we move forward. the race to the finish tour yesterday. we have got 14 counties, 14 hours, over 500 miles and we thought for 14 minutes. go madden! picture! it is an experience i will never forget and i do not know what we were thinking of when we decided to do that. above all its people. this is not just my victory. it is your victory. i am so glad to have had all of you on board with me over the last 10 months. i could not have done it without you. in particular, i want to thank my core campaign team. we have been with me on all my campaigns for the last 10 years. but this one was different. and they worked really hard for me this time around. even though they may not have known what they were in for. wayne, tracy, debbie, maratha, dave, jeff, michelle. i thank you for your loyalty and your friendship. and last but not least, dick wabi. woo! i hate you. this is not my campaign medorian every time i watch them while. i sometimes have to remind them that the door is unlocked. the music is a little bit open. it makes for a good balance. the new faces would join my pick crew this year and help me in this successful journey. blend right, my treasurer, nancy driscoll, my communications person, and especially my campaign manager, that mcdonald. what a wealth of knowledge and experience she brought to us. and she was the turning board in our campaign. i will never forget that. if she gave us legitimacy and she gave us focus. thank you. applause many vermoners who put their sign in their yard, my sign, and talked about me to their neighbors. she taught and had that one right when he said, it is not just in the right of ways. it is in the front yards of their homes and their businesses. that makes a difference. everyone who contributed to my campaign, whether it was financial, donation of time, for all the vermoners who contributed to talents, products, and services to this effort. i also want to thank, have a special appreciation to thunder road, tom, darlene ken, and the entire racing community. as well as the community of contractors throughout the state, they are my competition. we are competing on a day-to-day basis. and they put that aside, and they work for me, and supported me. i thank them for that. everyone who voted for me today, and over the past few weeks, i appreciate your confidence in me, the server month, as your ex-lutinant governor. and i will do my very best not to let you down. i want to thank my family as well. my daughter's eric and rachel are here. yay! my mom was in florida right now. my dad, who died when i was 11, but continues to guide me and give me inspiration. diana, beloved my life, and my aunt mary, who is here tonight, is one of the most special people you could ever know. and i am so blessed to have a large family, and that probably put me over the top. but you all inspired me to be the person i am today, and i thank you. i also, again, want to thank governor douglas and lieutenant governor dubie for their leadership with the republican party. i am honored to follow in brian's footsteps, and to continue the tradition of strong, common-sense leadership, and tradition set by brian and jim douglas. and before that, by people like george aiken, and dick snelly, yesterday, i have got to mention this, yesterday, at the democratic party rally in burlington, vice president joe biden commented that we are not the republican party of george aiken. but i will do respect to our vice president, by begging to differ. and i take exception to them. whether you call us george aiken, dean davis, bob stafford, or dick snelly republicans, or vermoners 2, or we are right here, and i am one of them. my campaign, i was proud to have the support of many independents and moderate democrats. i thank them for their vote of confidence, and i think we need to keep in mind that we do need to work together in a common-sense fashion, the vermont way, to accomplish the goals we all share. my challenge to all the successful candidates tonight for republican democrat, or independent, is not only to fulfill our promises, but to prove that we can work together as vermoners. as for all of us here in this room, we are the party of george aiken, and i am proud to be a part of that. although my race is over, the governor's race is not. i will be anxious to see the results, and also returns to continue to come in during the night. but i thank you for being here, and i thank you for celebrating with me, and i appreciate it. thank you.