hey listen, i am not good at coming out here and faking it for 10 years. no, we got whoop, we got whoop and we did not understand that you we ran a campaign that would have been great in 1996. we had tv ads in dordnachon and these guys built an online infrastructure with the joe rogans and everything else. if we thought rush limbaugh gave us trouble in the 90s or fox news gave us trouble in the early 2000s. we built 2000 fox news and 2000 rush limbaugh's all throughout the internet and we did not even know they were doing it and we got egg on our face and we got a big, big job to look into ourselves in the mirror and figure out how we got beat this bad. scott what if you were put another hat on for a second if you were going to talk to democrats from your perspective and go easy but what would you pick out and advise them where did it go wrong? well, i think the democratic party and the eyes of a lot of working class voters and the eyes of a lot of men who overwhelmingly turned out for trump in this election kind of either democratic party as a professional fainting society. you know, we are offended by everything. we do not have our eye on the real ball here which is people being crushed in the economy or we do not have our eye on the border. we do not have our eye on the world chaos. what we have our eye on is running around scolding everyone and being offended by everyone. i mean, it is no way to run a political party and then be surprised when average every day working people turn out against you. so if i were the democrats, i mean, it is a time for soul searching. i feel for a brother van a little because, you know, the republicans have been there too. but the reality is you just have to ask yourself a couple of questions. who are we and who do we stand for? what do we represent? what are our actual values? and i think if they ask themselves those questions and answered them honestly, they would find out that the only people they really stand for are very wealthy people who were not as crushed by inflation, people who have college degrees who live in and around college campuses and in urban areas. that is it. that is pretty much what the democratic party has been reduced to. what do you say, man? i think republicans have done a brilliant job of framing us that way. and i think we have helped them a lot because a lot of the stuff that we say does fall into the pity party, crybaby society stuff. i think that that is right. the tragedy to me is that what joe biden and kamaharis actually did and what they are promising to do really was responding to working class needs. a lot of stuff in the inflation reduction act was really trying to help ordinary people. they ran on a campaign to try to get $6,000. everybody's having a new baby. $25,000. people want to have a house to help small businesses. there was an agenda there, but we did not do a good job of talking about it. the crybaby took up all the airspace and then they built a machine. do not forget the republicans built a machine online to magnify our mistakes and to mask their failures. and what we did was run a bunch of crappy ads that everybody hated and spend a billion dollars doing it. so there is a core there that is good, but we dropped the ball in the parking lot. we thought we were on the football field. we were not here on the football field. we were in the parking lot. and we got it. we got to look in the mirror. one of the most powerful members of the democratic party is now blaming president biden for vice president kamala harris' election loss. former house speaker nancy pelosi telling the new york times democrats may have had a better shot if the president had stepped aside sooner. and we are back now with our panel, van jones and scott jennings. thanks for sticking around both of you, van, especially you. i do want to know, i am not sure how good it does anybody looking backward at this point. however, i am curious what you make of the former house speaker's comments. well, listen to the whole interview. and she was doing all the things she could to try to get out and answer the question. she asked the question multiple times in multiple ways. eventually, you have to give an opinion. and i do not think her opinion is wrong in hindsight. do not forget now, joe biden was doing better than he is now. and after the midterm elections, when you have to make a decision to get in or get out, he was just coming off of an incredibly successful legislative session that we had done really well in the midterms. and i think he started to feel like, hey, everybody keep telling me, i cannot do this, i cannot do that. i am winning, i am winning, i am winning. and he just went a bridge too far. i do not think anybody now can honestly say they were glad that joe biden stayed in. so i think, plus, he is just being honest about that. but i think people think that she went on there to go after joe biden. she did not. she got asked that question. she could not get out of the box if she had to give an answer. right. i mean, not yet. yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. scott, do you think biden was a key factor in trump's victory? oh, of course. i mean, look at the biden of it all. of course, i mean, he is had an under 40% approval rating since august of 2021. the american people have been very unhappy with him. yes, democrats did a bit better in the 2022 midterm. but i think it was in spite of biden, honestly, and the house republicans did actually win the national popular vote in the 22 midterm. people keep forgetting that. we did have some bobbles and some senate races. i think they totally overread what happened in that midterm. but on top of that, what i find particularly troubling is that all these democrats who were now looking back on biden and he should not run, he should not have done this. these are the same people who were all too happy to go on television every day and tell us that joe biden was sharp as a tack. everything was fine. he was up to everything. and we now know there is huge amount of evidence that he was not, that he really was diminished, that he really was not up to the job. and yet they were pushing that campaign forward anyway. they finally dumped him after the debate when they could not hide it anymore. to me, the reckoning here is, when did everybody know joe biden was diminished? why did they lie for so long? are we going to get a full accounting of that? so i do not think democrats have anyone to blame here, but themselves. joe biden is going to go down in history as a pretty terrible president, i believe. and on top of that, if you are a democrat, you think about how he ran his campaign the first time. i am running to restore the soul of the nation, to rid us of trump and trumpism. today, donald trump is stronger than he is ever been, more popular. and his agenda is ascendant in our politics. it is a complete and total political failure. i mean, van, that last part of what scott just said is true. i mean, trump did win and is more ascendant than he is ever been, even despite january. even despite all the stuff. did you think i did not hear it when he would scoff or say it at the end? i cannot use the one. yes. what do you want me to do? can i leave? listen. help us understand, van. he want me to do. listen, jessica, jessica, we get to have to charge van at 500 bucks an hour for these saturday night stuff. we got to get a couch in here for him. this reverse therapy. this reverse therapy. i am not making me pay. it is not a therapy. it is not a therapy. so, i am loving. look, there were some people, and i got to say our colleague, david axelrod from the very beginning, beat up and beat up because he kept saying this is not going to work. and i am concerned about his age. and he got, i mean, he got beat up worse than i have ever seen in democrat. get beat up. and he was right. there were people who had to curse, not enough of them. and scott jennings is right. there was something going on. and if it was not going on in 2021 or 2022, by the time you got to that debate, there was clearly something off about joe biden. i love joe biden. joe biden gave me an opportunity when nobody else did. but there is just a reality here. now look, it is important to look back and learn these lessons. this is not a blame game. this is not a finger pointing. this is the part of the grieving process and also the reassessment process that any mature party should go through. this is just a hurts because literally this time last weekend, we thought we were going to run this dude off to the world stage. and now we got to deal with him and all his friends and his family members and everybody else on the stage, all happy and we are crying in our beer. so it is a tough weekend right now. but scott's not wrong. but i think where scott is underestimating joe biden, i think history will be kind of joe biden as a years go by. i think joe biden did some things that were very important. trump talked about infrastructure a week every week and never did it. joe biden actually got it done. we had a real problem with our technology infrastructure being off-shored with the chips act he brought some of that stuff back home. joe biden did some stuff that we can all be proud of as americans and as the years go by, those things will shine through. but right now, you know, people are looking at him and looking at common and looking at all of us and saying what the heck did you guys do? and i have a done cap on myself because i underestimated donald trump and his machine. and i did it every night. and that is true. i mean, i will say to vian because he worked for, i mean, republicans are kind of thankful for biden and previously barack obama. i mean, it was obama's presidency that gave us trump the first time and it is joe biden's presidency that made donald trump stronger than ever. so we just want to say thank you to obama. can i leave? we just want to say thank you guys. you guys have delivered us and we are going to have american patriotism and economic optimism again. and it goes right back to obama. so thank you guys. i cannot wait for the good terms. you guys are going to overreach. just two years. you are going to overreach. we are going to get you. but right now, it sure hurts. vian, i do want to ask you, president biden and from president trump are going to meet in the oval office on wednesday, which is kind of, you know, a norm in these sorts of, when we have a transition of power, what do you expect to see from that? well, i am sure you will be just like the last time they met in the oval office and you know, when trump brought him over and said, i am going to wait a minute. like, this is actually not a norm. it is a norm that was blown out of the water when the last time president trump was sitting in that office, he refused to even honor the man. and so it does show, i think, something important that joe biden is not up here refusing to let the guy come in, refusing to speak with them. common harris is not organizing an insurrection. there is nobody going around saying that the election was stolen. we have a mature party that respects democracy. i hope the republican party will become a mature party that respects democracy, even when they lose. they respect it when they win, at least under donald trump. so i am glad, i hope that this is the end of that kind of nonsense and that people will follow joe biden's example into feed and not donald trump.