[congressional record volume 170, number 17 (tuesday, january 30, 2024)] [house] [pages h281-h288] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] {time} 1215 providing for consideration of h.r. 5585, agent raul gonzalez officer safety act; providing for consideration of h.r. 6678, consequences for social security fraud act; providing for consideration of h.r. 6679, no immigration benefits for hamas terrorists act; and providing for consideration of h.r. 6976, protect our communities from duis act mr. burgess. madam speaker, by direction of the committee on rules, i call up house resolution 980 and ask for its immediate consideration. the clerk read the resolution, as follows: h. res. 980 resolved, that at any time after adoption of this resolution the speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule xviii, declare the house resolved into the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for consideration of the bill (h.r. 5585) to impose criminal and immigration penalties for intentionally fleeing a pursuing federal officer while operating a motor vehicle. the first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. general debate shall be confined to the bill and amendments specified in this section and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on the judiciary or their respective designees. after general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. in lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the committee on the judiciary now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of rules committee print 118-21 shall be considered as adopted in the house and in the committee of the whole. the bill, as amended, shall be considered as the original bill for the purpose of further amendment under the five-minute rule and shall be considered as read. all points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. no further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order except those printed in part a of the report of the committee on rules accompanying this resolution. each such further amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the house or in the committee of the whole. all points of order against such further amendments are waived. at the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the house with such further amendments as may have been adopted. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit. sec. 2. upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the house the bill (h.r. 6678) to amend the immigration and nationality act to provide that aliens who have been convicted of or who have committed social security fraud are inadmissible and deportable. all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. in lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the committee on the judiciary now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of rules committee print 118-23 shall be considered as adopted. the bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. all points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on the judiciary or their respective designees; (2) the further amendment printed in part b of the report of the committee on rules accompanying this resolution, if offered by the member designated in the report, which shall be in order without intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as read, shall be separately debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question; and (3) one motion to recommit. sec. 3. upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the house the bill (h.r. 6679) to amend the immigration and nationality act with respect to aliens who carried out, participated in, planned, financed, supported, or otherwise facilitated the attacks against israel. all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. in lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the committee on the judiciary now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of rules committee print 118-24 shall be considered as adopted. the bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. all points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on the judiciary or their respective designees; (2) the further amendment printed in part c of the report of the committee on rules accompanying this resolution, if offered by the member designated in the report, which shall be in order without intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as read, shall be separately debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question; and (3) one motion to recommit. sec. 4. upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the house the bill (h.r. 6976) to amend the immigration and nationality act to provide that aliens who have been convicted of or who have committed an offense for driving while intoxicated or impaired are inadmissible and deportable. all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. in lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the committee on the judiciary now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of rules committee print 118-22 shall be considered as adopted. the bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. all points of [[page h282]] order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on the judiciary or their respective designees; (2) the further amendment printed in part d of the report of the committee on rules accompanying this resolution, if offered by the member designated in the report, which shall be in order without intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as read, shall be separately debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question; and (3) one motion to recommit. the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman from texas is recognized for 1 hour. mr. burgess. mr. speaker, for the purpose of debate only, i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from massachusetts (mr. mcgovern), pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume. during consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the purpose of debate only. general leave mr. burgess. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from texas? there was no objection. mr. burgess. mr. speaker, last night, the rules committee met and reported a rule, house resolution 980, providing for consideration of four measures: h.r. 5585, h.r. 6678, h.r. 6679, and h.r. 6976. the rule provides for consideration of all four measures under structured rules with 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee of jurisdiction, or their designee. the rule provides one motion to recommit for each measure. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of the rule and support of the underlying bills. today, we are here to address an ongoing crisis, not a new concept to this body. the word ``crisis'' has been a hard one for my friends on the other side of the aisle to absorb when it comes to our current situation on the southern border. let us just put a few things into perspective: in 2023, customs and border protection encountered over 2\1/2\ million illegal migrants attempting to cross the southern u.s. border. in december alone, customs and border protection encountered 302,000 illegal migrants--that is just in the month of december--attempting to cross the u.s. southern border, the highest number of unlawful migrant crossings in a single month in recorded history. in 2023, customs and border protection confiscated almost 230,000 pounds of drugs, including 22,000 pounds of illicit fentanyl, being smuggled across the southern border. if this does not sound like a crisis to you, i do not know what would. mr. speaker, earlier this month, i was at the southern border to witness firsthand the challenges faced by texans and to hear directly from border patrol agents and law enforcement officers who are on the front lines of this crisis. magically, either by order of president biden or by order of the cartels, the eagle pass area was completely cleared out that day. if that is possible when members of congress are visiting on a certain day, it is possible every single day. mr. speaker, the president has every tool that he needs right now to stop the overwhelming flow of migrants to the border. the proof of this is that immediately upon taking office, president biden dismantled the immigration policies that were put in place by the trump administration. he did that by executive order. he can undo them by executive order. president biden halted the construction of the border wall, ended migrant protection protocols, also known as the remain in mexico program, and restarted the dangerous catch and release program with the simple stroke of a pen. now the consequences have been stark: record numbers of migrants crossing the border and increasing each month; record numbers of illegal migrants being released into the united states; an open season for drug smugglers, human traffickers, and mexican cartels; and social support systems stretched to the breaking point, not only in my home state of texas, but places across the country like new york city, chicago, los angeles, and denver. mr. speaker, this is not an immigration problem; it is a national security problem. we have a responsibility to make certain that the laws of this land protect americans and ensure their safety. earlier this congress, we passed h.r. 2, the secure the border act of 2023, to combat illegal migration and ensure operational control over the southern border, but the senate has refused to even debate or have a vote on the bill. today, we take up four additional bills that will help undo the chaos caused by this administration to ensure that law enforcement, particularly the agents of customs and border protection, federal agents are supported in their mission to keep our communities safe. this means closing loopholes that allow illicit behavior to go without punishment, which is exactly what the following four measures will do. last year, customs and border patrol agent raul gonzalez was tragically killed in pursuit of illegal migrants fleeing law enforcement in a motor vehicle. high-speed chases started by those breaking our laws are not uncommon. in fact, any of us who have been down and visited the border, whether it was several years ago or recently, have been shown the films, the dash cam videos collected by customs and border protection of these very high-risk, high-velocity chases which frequently end up with a crash, with people hurt, or people simply bailing out on the highway and running away. currently, fleeing law enforcement in a motor vehicle does not carry immigration consequences for the perpetrators, even in situations that result in the death of an officer, like the one involving agent gonzalez. h.r. 5585, the agent raul gonzalez officer safety act will change that by adding specific criminal and immigration consequences for individuals who operate motor vehicles while fleeing border patrol and law enforcement agents. the penalties instituted by this bill include prison time and ensure that perpetrators can be deemed inadmissible to this country and deported from the united states. preventing deadly accidents that endanger lives is also the focus of h.r. 6976, the protect our communities from duis act. with a simple turn of a key, an intoxicated driver commits a crime and illegal migrants are no different. tragically, many of these incidents involve individuals who should not be in the country at all. illegal migrants who have committed this offense are evaluated under the crimes involving moral turpitude standard, a difficult and complex legal analysis that results in long delays and lengthy legal proceedings. h.r. 6976 will change this and provide immigration consequences for driving under the influence, rendering illegal migrants who have committed this offense inadmissible to this country and deportable without a lengthy process. in a similar vein, with identification and fraud on the rise, h.r. 6678, the consequences for social security fraud act will ensure that criminal or illegal migrants who commit social security and id fraud can be removed and barred from this country. finally, we will take up h.r. 6679, the no immigration benefits for hamas terrorists act. in october, the world watched in horror as hamas, a designated terror organization, committed a vicious and evil attack on israel. twelve hundred israelis, including american citizens, were murdered. another 240 were taken back to gaza as hostages where many remain today. {time} 1230 terrorists who participated in, planned, or otherwise supported the october 7 attacks should not be admissible to the united states, full stop. there is no reason for a member of hamas to ever be admitted into the united states. h.r. 6679 will make that a reality and ensure that we can prevent these deadly and evil people from [[page h283]] ever entering our country, thereby protecting our citizens. taken together, eradicating these gaps in our legal recourse will deter criminal activity and ensure that bad actors face appropriate punishment for their crimes. mr. speaker, republicans have demonstrated that we are committed to governing for the american people and that the american people have spoken. their message to their elected representatives is: ``enough.'' enough with sending their tax dollars to process migrants that should not be in this country in the first place instead of enforcing the law; enough with putting law enforcement both at the border and across america in harm's way; enough with the fearmongering and lies. mr. speaker, i stand in strong support of the rule and the underlying bills. i urge my fellow members to support the rule, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman from texas for yielding me the customary 30 minutes, and i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, let me set a couple of things straight. the border is not open. now, maybe some people think it is because my republican colleagues every day for the last 2 years have come to the floor screaming, ``the border is open. the border is open. the border is open.'' however, the border is not open, and that is just a fact. today, there are approximately 38,000 people in immigration detention, which is 4,000 more than what dhs is funded for and roughly what the trump administration averaged in fiscal year 2018. the biden administration has also significantly increased removals in ways that many on our side of the aisle are concerned violates due process. since the end of title 42 last year, the biden administration has removed or returned to mexico close to 500,000 individuals. the total is nearly equivalent to the number of people removed in all of fiscal year 2019 under the trump administration. please, please, stop making things up and stop claiming the border is open. it is not. do we have a problem at the border? absolutely. absolutely, we do. however, listening to the gentleman, he seems to have no solutions. i mean, i think he thinks this is beetlejuice, if you say ``crisis'' three times, the problem goes away. no; you have to take some action. you have to work to try to address the issue. democrats and president biden want to find real, comprehensive solutions to fix it. what we need is republicans to stop playing political games, and that is the exact opposite of what is happening here and what has been happening under this republican-controlled house of representatives. it is shameful. i know that because we called their bluff. democrats said, yeah, we care about border security, too. let us get to work. now republicans tell us that they would rather wait until after the election. they do not actually want the thing they have been talking about for the last year. it is all a big lie. it is all a big lie. why? why would they want to wait? why do not they want to work with us to fix the border right now? i think we all know the answer. trump called--the guy they all worship, the guy they are all frightened to death of. he called, and he is demanding that they do nothing. no action at all on the border, that is what he said because he wants to campaign on it. i mean, what the hell is wrong with them? the senate is working on a bipartisan border security bill, and republicans tell us here in the house that they do not care what is in it. they will oppose it no matter what. from what i hear, i am not sure that i can even support the bill they are working on over in the senate. it has things in it that cause me a lot of angst, but republicans are sure that they are against it because trump told them to be against it. that is because, at the end of the day, all he wants is to be able to scare people by demonizing immigrants and whipping up hate and fear and appealing to racism and bigotry. it is disgusting. it is that simple. i mean, i am not surprised. this is the guy who says: ``immigrants poison the blood of america,'' echoing the words of adolf hitler. we cannot get anyone on the other side of the aisle to try to disassociate themselves with those remarks. that is who the republicans listen to. that is who is calling the shots here. trump says no action on border security, period. please, spare us the outrage and indignation. it is all theatrics. it is all for show, all so you can go on fox news and blame president biden for something that they refuse to fix. republicans tried to cut customs and border protection personnel. they rejected president biden's request for $106 billion in funding to fix this problem, and they have consistently voted against funding for border security. you cannot make this stuff up. they say we do not need more money. we just need a president who follows the law. we hear that again and again. we heard that last night in the rules committee. i hope that they are not implying that the former president--a rapist who was just ordered by a jury to pay $83 million for defaming his victim--follows the law. he has been indicted 4 times with 91 felony counts. i mean, this guy has been indicted more times than he has been elected. give me a break. that is who is calling the shots around here? it is shameful. the bottom line is that they simply do not want to fix the border crisis. house democrats, senate democrats, president biden--hell, even senate republicans, some of the most conservative republicans in the senate, have been working together in a bipartisan way to solve this country's problems. we acknowledge we need to address our problems at the border, provide a pathway to citizenship for dreamers, fix our broken immigration system, and address the root causes of migration. what does the extreme maga clown show in this house care about? not fixing the border. they care about trump, about bending over backwards for his campaign and turning this place into a circus. what a shame. what a waste of time. what an embarrassment. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. burgess. mr. speaker, i yield myself 45 seconds just to answer some of the charges flung against me. the gentleman said he wants solutions. there are solutions. the solutions are to undo the executive order the president put in place in his first 5 minutes in office, end catch and release, cease the exploitation of parole authority, reinstate remain in mexico, expand expedited removal authority, and renew the building of a wall. mr. speaker, it is sheer fantasy that $106 billion will fix this problem. of course, it will not. the gentleman knows it will not. mr. speaker, i yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from texas (mr. roy). mr. roy. mr. speaker, i thank my friend from texas for his service. we will be missing him next congress, but we still have some more time and work to do together. my colleagues on the other side of the aisle do not want to talk about the bills that are sitting here in front of them because they are going to vote against at least three of them. we know that because they did it in judiciary committee. these bills are pretty simple. if you are here and you evade border patrol, you cannot stay here or come here. if you are here and you have committed social security fraud, you cannot stay here or come here. if you are here and you have committed a dui, you cannot stay here or come here. judiciary democrats voted against all three of those. let us put aside that if you are here, illegally, you should be deported anyway. then there is if you are here and a member of hamas, or participated in, or facilitated the october 7 terrorist attack on israel, you cannot stay here or come here. now, on that, it was passed unanimously. we will see what happens when it comes to the floor when some of the folks not on judiciary committee look at the bill. i find it interesting that a blanket statement is made that some of us take our orders from former president trump. well, if somebody has a phone line into mar-a-lago, why do not you give him a call? i think he would be surprised to hear that i take orders from former president trump, in light [[page h284]] of the recent time i have spent around the country. i would tell you this: i do not take orders from the former president. i know that we should not make this a political issue. i know this is an issue we should solve, but i do not think that is what the former president was saying. i think the former president was saying this bill in the senate is garbage, that it will make the problem worse; that we have all the power we need now to secure the border, and that the current president and current administration are ignoring it, and, indeed, purposely avoiding the law in order to flood america, which is endangering americans; fentanyl flowing in; empowering cartels; empowering china; terrorists coming into our country; and criminals coming into our country. that is the truth. what the former president knows is that the bill being negotiated in the senate is not a good one. he is calling that out. however, i can assure you, i do not take orders from the former president, nor do i take orders from somalis in minnesota, but some people do. that is the truth. the fact here is, we have legislation before us right now to address real problems for the people that we represent. i can tell you we do in texas. we have a bill being negotiated in the senate that is being deemed by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle as, oh, a reasonable solution. a reasonable solution, when we had a bill last year that would actually secure the border with h.r. 2, which would close loopholes being exploited by our democratic colleagues. i had witnesses in a recent hearing on the constitution and states stepping into the breach. the first assistant attorney general of texas and the former attorney general of arizona, they all testified under oath that there is an invasion. they all came forward to say that it was the right of the governors, the right of the states to step in. i had the aclu witness acknowledge to me: i said, hey, if cartels are coming guns a-blazing, they come across the river, can you defend yourself? he said, well, if it is a violation of state law, sure. i said, oh, really? that is an interesting piece of information to hear from the aclu, that the state, that the governor can, in fact, do what is necessary to defend the people of his state based on the laws of that state and, frankly, based on every understanding of what a leadership of a sovereign would do, and that is the truth. right now what we have are democrats in the senate wanting to hide behind a bill they know has no chance of moving through because, frankly, if it were passed, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are concerned about us campaigning on this, making it a political issue. if that legislation were passed, the issue would still exist because the legislation would not do anything to stop it. it sets a floor, not a ceiling. it sets a standard of 5,000 a day. come on in, 1.8 million folks. that is the truth, if you read the bill. the reality is, the gentleman talks about, oh, we have 38,000 people in detention. well, the truth is, we had 900,000 people get released last year; 900,000 got released. that does not count the ice releases, that does not count the 50,000 a month of got-aways. these are the numbers we are talking about, and they are on an extraordinary level. i remind everybody that here before us is legislation that all it does is try to layer on a commonsense ability to remove bad actors, duis, those affiliated with hamas, border patrol having to chase people in high-speed chases, and those committing social security fraud. my democratic colleagues do not want to talk about it because they are not going to support those commonsense measures. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i missed a lot of what the gentleman from texas just screamed because i could not follow it all. mr. speaker, it is being intimated that this bill that is being worked on in the senate somehow does nothing. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent to include in the record a cnn article titled: ``gop senators seethe as trump blows up delicate immigration compromise.'' the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from massachusetts? there was no objection. [from cnn, jan. 25, 2024] gop senators seethe as trump blows up delicate immigration compromise (by manu raju, melanie zanona, lauren fox and ted barrett) senior senate republicans are furious that donald trump may have killed an emerging bipartisan deal over the southern border, depriving them of a key legislative achievement on a pressing national priority and offering a preview of what is to come with trump as their likely presidential nominee. in recent weeks, trump has been lobbying republicans both in private conversations and in public statements on social media to oppose the border compromise being delicately hashed out in the senate, according to gop sources familiar with the conversations--in part because he wants to campaign on the issue this november and does not want president joe biden to score a victory in an area where he is politically vulnerable. senate gop leader mitch mcconnell acknowledged in a private meeting on wednesday that trump's animosity toward the yet- to-be-released border deal puts republicans in a serious bind as they try to move forward on the already complex issue. for weeks, republicans have been warning that trump's opposition could blow up the bipartisan proposal, but the admission from mcconnell was particularly striking, given he has been a chief advocate for a border-ukraine package. now, republicans on capitol hill are grappling with the reality that most in the gop are loathe to do anything that is seen as potentially undermining the former president. and the prospects of a deal being scuttled before it has even been finalized has sparked tensions and confusion in the senate gop as they try to figure out if, and how, to proceed--even as mcconnell made clear during party lunches thursday that he remains firmly behind the effort to strike a deal, according to attendees. ``i think the border is a very important issue for donald trump. and the fact that he would communicate to republican senators and congresspeople that he does not want us to solve the border problem because he wants to blame biden for it is . . . really appalling,'' said gop sen. mitt romney of utah, who has been an outspoken critic of trump. he added, ``but the reality is that, that we have a crisis at the border, the american people are suffering as a result of what is happening at the border. and someone running for president not to try and get the problem solved. as opposed to saying, `hey, save that problem. do not solve it. let me take credit for solving it later.' '' gop sen. todd young of indiana called any efforts to disrupt the ongoing negotiations ``tragic'' and said: ``i hope no one is trying to take this away for campaign purposes.'' ``i would encourage (chief senate gop negotiator) james lankford and other conservatives to produce a work product with which they will shortly allow conservatives like myself to review it and take heart that there are a number of us who will not be looking to third parties and assessing the propriety of passing this bipartisan proposal,'' young said. it is an all-too-familiar dynamic for the republicans who served while trump was in office, where he could easily derail legislative action on capitol hill with the blast of a single tweet or stir up a new controversy that republicans were forced to respond to. and with trump now marching toward the presidential nomination, republicans are once again bracing for life with him as the nominee. underscoring just how damaging trump's comments and campaign to kill the border deal have been in the senate, one gop senator on condition of background told cnn that without trump, this deal would have had overwhelming support within the conference. ``this proposal would have had almost unanimous republican support if it were not for donald trump,'' the republican senator said. gop sen. thom tillis of north carolina--who has also been involved in the talks--said he did not know if anyone could convince trump to not kill the deal. but he acknowledged that it would take some ``courage'' for members to be able to press ahead at this point in defiance of trump--though tillis argued it would ultimately be beneficial for trump for them to pass a border security deal and help address the flow of migrants trying to enter the country. ``i think this is when members of the senate have to show some courage and do something that at the end of the day will be very helpful for president trump,'' tillis said. asked whether it was a mistake for trump to be assailing this deal, tillis said: ``i will leave it to him to figure out how he needs to get into office. i hope you will leave it to some of us who would support that effort to give him the tools he needs to really manage the border and the abuse and the dangerous situation we have today.'' for his part, mcconnell--who has had zero relationship with trump since the january 6, 2021, capitol attack--downplayed trump's opposition saying, ``it is not anything new,'' and insisting they were not abandoning the talks. ``we are still working,'' mcconnell said. ``trying to get an outcome.'' [[page h285]] sen. john thune, the no. 2 senate republican, said the discussions have reached a critical moment but acknowledged they may need to turn to a ``plan b.'' ``if we cannot get there, then we will go to plan b,'' thune said. ``but i think for now at least, there are still attempts being made to try and reach a conclusion that would satisfy a lot of republicans.'' in the latest sign that the emerging border deal faces an uphill climb, a senior leadership aide to house gop leader steve scalise told a group of senate republican chiefs of staff on thursday that it was dead on arrival in the house, according to a source familiar. senate republicans on the fence about the proposal may be less inclined to back it, knowing it is going nowhere in the house and knowing trump wants a border deal killed. frustration reigned inside the senate gop on thursday amid lingering confusion over the status of a deal. while mcconnell has said the talks are still proceeding, young warned republican leadership against pulling the plug before they have taken a thorough temperature check inside the conference, where a contingent of republicans are still fighting for a deal. ``i think leadership needs to count noses before they make any impulsive decisions,'' he said. pressed on whether it was realistic to pass a border deal with trump opposing it, young said: ``it may be possible. listen, i am very much attuned to the political realities, but i think before you make these consequential decisions on behalf of this conference, you have got to consult with the conference.'' sen. ron johnson of wisconsin, who has been openly critical of mcconnell, said he was ``puzzled'' by the leader's comments during the closed-door meeting on wednesday, which was supposed to be focused on ukraine. ``i mean, we were talking about funding for ukraine and all of the sudden he brings up the border and then, again, lays out what i consider a pretty lame excuse, trying to shift blame to president trump for, i would say, his failed negotiation, not james lankford,'' johnson said. ``james lankford has worked his tail off. it is mcconnell that took away the leverage by not tying ukraine funding to actually securing the border.'' republican sen. lisa murkowski of alaska, who has made no secret of her frustration with trump over the years, said members need to remember how big this moment is for the border and for ukraine and put their own politics aside. ``i am not giving up. this is not about trump and this is not about me. this is about our country. this is about democracy around the world. this is about security for our own country and so let us keep pushing to get this border deal,'' she said. ``let us stand by the commitments that we have made for our friends and our allies so that our word actually means something.'' this is the second time in six years trump killed or was actively trying to kill a bipartisan immigration deal as it emerged. back in 2018, murkowski was part of bipartisan talks over the deferred action for childhood arrivals program. the bill got 54 votes in the senate, but not enough to get it over the finish line. sen. chris murphy of connecticut, one of the democrats involved in the border talks, expressed frustration about trump seeking to inject chaos into the situation. ``i think over the next 24 to 48 hours, they are going to make a decision as to whether they want to do this, or whether the forces surrounding donald trump--who want to keep chaos at the border--win,'' murphy said. ``so they have a decision to make. i hope they make that decision very quickly. we have an agreement that is 95% written and is ready to get to the floor if republicans decide that they actually want to solve the problem.'' mr. mcgovern. the bottom line, mr. speaker, is that people like senator thom tillis--i did not think he was a liberal democrat. unless i missed something, he is a pretty conservative republican--said: ``do not pretend that the policy is not strong. if you want to admit you are just afraid to tell president trump the truth, that is fine. but for you to take a look at this framework and say it is a half measure, either you are not paying attention or you are not telling the truth.'' that is senator thom tillis, a very conservative republican senator, saying that. it is not me. i would say that to the gentleman from texas. senator lankford, is he now a democrat? is he now a traitor to the cause? we heard some republicans at a press conference yesterday talk about those who were supporting a compromise. he said the other day on ``face the nation,'' and i quote, house republicans actually do not want a change in the law because it is a presidential election year. i mean, this is ridiculous. this is all theatrics. shame on them for exploiting this issue. shame on them for ginning up all this hate and all this vitriol and not wanting to be part of the solution, not wanting to do anything to fix it. i am also puzzled. i think i need to go to the capitol's attending physician to see if i can get a neck brace because i have whiplash following the logic of some of my republican friends. we heard all year that we need to pass a bill in order to fix the immigration crisis at the border, and then last night in the rules committee we are told we do not need a bill, we do not need a law. then here we are today dealing with four more bills that, by the way, most of which is already covered in existing law. what is it? do we need a law, or do not we need a law? if we do not need a law, what the hell are we here for? {time} 1245 why are we wasting our time? this is not a debate club, right. we are here to actually get things done. if the gentleman wants to be part of the solution, then be part of the solution. if the gentleman just wants to complain for the sake of complaining, then just do it in the press conferences. do not waste time here. mr. speaker, if we defeat the previous question, i will offer an amendment to the rule to bring up h.r. 16, the american dream and promise act, which would provide a pathway to citizenship for dreamers, temporary protected status holders, and deferred enforced departure recipients. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent to insert the text of my amendment in the record, along with any extraneous material, immediately prior to the vote on the previous question. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from massachusetts? there was no objection. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i yield 2\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman from california (ms. barragan), to discuss our proposal. ms. barragan. mr. speaker, if we defeat the previous question, we will bring up h.r. 16, the american dream and promise act of 2023. this is bipartisan legislation that would lift up our immigrant brothers and sisters and do more to address our broken immigration system than anti-immigrant bills offered by republicans today. h.r. 16 would give certainty to dreamers who were raised here in america and are an integral part of who we are as a nation. as one republican said: this is not a democrat issue or a republican issue. it is an american issue. our doctors, our teachers, our caregivers, our friends, and our families are dreamers. they are american in every way, and they continue to make significant contributions to society and our economy. america is their home. h.r. 16 also protects those with tps and ded. this is a humane, fair, and just approach so our immigrant communities can live in dignity. rather than take a humane approach to bestow protections upon our nation's dreamers, our colleagues across the aisle would rather penalize them by introducing a package of bills that would do nothing to fix our broken immigration system. instead, these bills only further criminalize those who already live in america--and take away their due process rights--to make it easier to deport them. these republican bills are anti-immigrant. these bills will not make us safer. if you are undocumented and you are convicted of committing a crime, you are already deportable. let us not burden our law and immigration enforcement officials, and, instead, allow them to focus their resources on finding those who seek to harm this country. let us get serious about fixing our immigration system and stop with the gotcha messaging bills that do nothing to make us safer. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on the previous question. mr. burgess. mr. speaker, i am pleased to yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from missouri (mr. alford) for his comments. mr. alford. mr. speaker, i thank my friend from texas for yielding time. i rise in support of the rule for this bill package of four measures, actually, which includes the no immigration benefits for hamas terrorists act. i also express my strong support for securing our border. now, i feel like i must start out by addressing the fallacy brought forth by [[page h286]] our ranking member on the rules committee. this is not a political measure--on the part of the republicans, anyway--if it had been, for a presidential or congressional election year, why did we pass h.r. 2 last year? we passed it in may of last year, and it has been sitting across the hallway here on chuck schumer's desk since may. the democrats have refused to secure our border, and an open border makes america vulnerable on the world stage. biden's border crisis has turned every american community into a border community. since biden has taken office, more than 8.7 million illegal aliens have invaded our nation. for 34 straight months, mr. speaker, monthly encounters have been at a higher rate than even the highest month during the trump administration. this is a humanitarian crisis. they are bringing in fentanyl that is poisoning our young people. they are bringing human sex trafficking with them. mr. speaker, 100,000 children who have come across our border illegally are now unaccounted for in america. the rising number of illegal aliens is alarming. it is unacceptable. just this fiscal year, 49 people on the terrorist watch list have been caught trying to enter the u.s., and there have been 1.7 million got-aways. how many of those are members of hamas? where are these people coming from? the simple answer is, we do not know. i am deeply concerned for our national safety, our national security. recently, two high-ranking retired fbi members sent a letter to our speaker and chairman warning that what could be coming to the united states of america is far much worse than what happened on 9/11. i read one paragraph from their letter: ``the threat we call out today is new and unfamiliar. in its modern history, the u.s. has never suffered an invasion of the homeland, and, yet, one is unfolding now. military-aged men from across the globe, many from countries or regions not friendly to the u.s., are landing in waves on our soil by the thousands--not by splashing ashore from a ship or parachuting from a plane but rather by foot across a border that has been accurately advertised around the world as largely unprotected with ready access granted.'' that is what this president has done to our national security. president ronald reagan once said: ``a nation that cannot control its borders is not a nation.'' that is the problem we are facing now. this president refuses to control our borders. he refuses to control the terrorists who are running freely, and our nation is slowly withering away. we are at risk today. when will enough be enough for the biden administration? the president has every means available--my good friend from texas spelled those out--to secure the border now. it is time to demand that president biden take action. we must protect our people. we are committed to ending this crisis and securing our border. the congressional democrats and the white house apparently have other plans. i urge my colleagues to vote for america, to vote for this rule, and to vote for this bill package. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, you need a map to follow the logic of that last speaker. first of all, the border is not open. we have more people in detention right now than we have funding for. my republican friends continuously vote against more funding, so figure that out. to the listening audience here, i am a little bit confused by the debate on the other side of the aisle. the gentleman from missouri just talked about, oh, we are serious about securing our border. we passed h.r. 2. the gentleman from texas, mr. burgess, opened up by saying the president has every tool he needs to fix this. last night, we heard in the rules committee that we do not need to pass any more laws. which is it? do we need stronger laws, or do we need to do nothing? if we need to do nothing, why are we here? let us be clear about the bills that we are dealing with here. these are messaging bills that are going nowhere in the united states senate. i would say to my republican friends that you might want to look up ``schoolhouse rock'' and figure out how government works, but we have a divided government right now. my republican friends barely control the house of representatives. in fact, yesterday there were more democrats voting than republicans. the senate is controlled by the democratic party, and we have a democrat president. if you want to have a chance to get something done, if you want to move the ball, you have to work in a bipartisan way. the united states senate seems to be doing that, and they are making progress on things that my friends in the house here have said they wanted time and time and time again. now, donald trump calls, they do not want anything. they do not want anything. this is not serious, what my republican friends are doing. their messaging bills are going nowhere. they vote against funding for stronger border security on a regular basis here in the house. then you have a negotiation going on in the senate with some of the most conservative senate republicans. all of a sudden, because trump does not want it, we do not want it. we do not need laws. if we do not need laws, why are we wasting our time here on the floor today? you cannot have it both ways. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from texas (ms. garcia). ms. garcia of texas. mr. chairman, i rise today to urge my colleagues to defeat the previous question and to support the american dream and promise act. if extreme maga republicans want a real bipartisan solution for our broken immigration system, the type of bill that the president has said he wants to sign, then they should sign up and support my american dream and promise act. today, our country is home to millions of dreamers. they were brought to the united states as children and grew up here. in their heart, in their mind, and in their soul, they are americans except on paper. this is their country. this is their home. if congress does nothing, we will lose our neighbors, our family members, and our friends. we will lose fellow americans. with the american dream and promise act, house democrats have a plan with bipartisan support to finally create a pathway for citizenship for dreamers and immigrant families. make no mistake: this is not a partisan issue. over 70 percent of americans favor a law providing permanent legal status to dreamers. this is a real solution with support. the american dream and promise act will have a life-changing effect on every single district in this country. take it from me. i was born and raised in south texas. i recognize the importance of securing our border to protect the integrity of our nation. this set of bills does not do that. these bills spread racist tropes about immigrants. it is wasting valuable time and energy that should be going toward writing laws that would lead to real generational change. with my bill, the american dream and promise act, we can create that generational change. americans support dreamers, and dreamers support america. i am opposed to these bills, and i urge my colleagues to defeat the previous question. mr. burgess. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, to illustrate the point that i made earlier that my republican friends are not serious about governing or about getting anything done, i point out to people in this chamber maybe something that they do not really know. i have served on the rules committee for a long time, and the rules committee used to be a place where people showed up to try to get things done, where we would discuss big and pressing issues facing the country, and where we would debate how each side thought these problems should be solved. we would pass consequential legislation to improve the lives of americans. it has been difficult to be on the rules committee lately to just deal with messaging bills--bills that do not do anything, that do not mean anything, [[page h287]] that do not help anybody, and that do not solve any problems. this is a judiciary committee bill that we are dealing with right now. i ask this question of my colleagues here in the house: do you know how many bills the judiciary committee has brought before the rules committee that have become law in the last year? the answer to that question is zero. zero. it seems like the judiciary committee is up in the rules committee every other day. not a single judiciary committee bill that has come before the rules committee that has come to this floor has become law. that is absurd. now, you may say i am cherry-picking, but do you know the last time the rules committee met on a bill that actually was brought to the floor that got signed into law? eight months ago. that is when we met on the fiscal responsibility act. even that moved forward because democrats came to the rescue and voted for the rule to avoid a debt ceiling disaster. that is 8 months, more than half of our time in this congress, wasted on messaging bills. at this point, i am not sure if that is a bug or a feature for this republican majority, but what is clear is this: none of these bills that we are talking about here today will address our border challenges. none of these bills that we are dealing with today are going to ever become law. republicans do not really care because they do not want to do anything real to solve problems at the border. the economy is getting better. their presumptive nominee for president is ethically challenged. he has more legal problems than--i do not even want to compare him to anybody. we have never seen anything like this before. he was just ordered to pay $83 million for defaming a woman who he sexually abused, and this is just the beginning. {time} 1300 they are not interested in solving problems or governing. what they are interested in is trying to hold on to a campaign issue. i am tired of it, the american people are tired of it, and frankly, it is just sad. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. burgess. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, may i inquire from the gentleman how many more speakers he has? mr. burgess. mr. speaker, i am ready to close. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. speaker, here is the difference between democrats and republicans. democrats want to work to get things done. we want to work with republicans in a bipartisan way to fix our problems at the border. republicans, well, let me just use their own words. last night in the rules committee, we heard from the other side that we are not going to fix the border crisis with laws. i mean, that is what was said in the rules committee last night. i mean, what the hell are we even doing here then? why even pass any laws at all? why try to fix any problems? republicans say that joe biden and democrats are single-handedly responsible for the crisis at the border. that is just not true. that is just not true. it is simply not true. look at the facts. democrats voted to increase border funding by 17 percent. democrats provided $65 million for 300 new border patrol agents, $60 million for 125 new personnel at points of entry, and $230 million for technology, like autonomous surveillance towers. republicans--republicans--voted ``no'' every single time. why? it is simple. because trump calls the shots around here, and trump wants a crisis at the border. somehow he thinks it helps him politically. unfortunately, there is not a lot of courage on the other side of the aisle in this house to stand up to the bully and to do what is right. in fact, we have our house leadership standing up and saying no to a deal that the most conservative republicans in the other chamber are saying is a good deal, is a tough deal. and they are saying no. why? because all of a sudden, trump does not want it. how pathetic. how pathetic. what a cynical, rotten thing to do. this is a serious problem that requires a serious solution, but they do not want to solve it. they do not want any action to secure the border. that is their strategy for november. well, guess what, it is going to look a lot less strategic when they lose the next election because the american people see through their bs and vote them out of office. i mean, we have an opportunity here to potentially do something that will actually address the problems at the border: something meaningful, not messaging bills that are going nowhere, not talking points, not press conferences where people have meltdowns, but actually do something meaningful. all they can say is no, no, because trump does not want us to do it. you know, i do not know how we progress here. i am hoping that there are some sensible republicans who will stand up to trump and stand up to their leadership who seems to have caved on trying to work together. i point out, again, that we have a divided government. i wish the democrats were in control of everything. i am sure my republican friends wished the republicans were in control of everything. but the fact of the matter is, they are not, and they continue to act like they are, but when they behave that way nothing gets done. so the way this is supposed to work is that we work across the aisle, we try to come up with some areas of commonality, and we move forward, and we work with the senate, and we work with the white house. that is what the senate republicans and senate democrats are doing right now. i mean, mr. speaker, i say to my republican friends: you are not in control of everything. you do not have a dictatorship--at least yet. i know that is what the former president would like, but that is not what we have right now. if we want to get something done, we are going to have to compromise. we are going to have to give and take. we have to listen to each other. we have to try to move something forward. for the life of me, i cannot understand why we are wasting so much time coming to the floor with stuff that is going nowhere that serves no purpose, other than to get people all riled up and maybe continue to appeal to the worst instincts in people: hate, racism, and bigotry. enough. enough. mr. speaker, if they want to solve the problem, then we are willing to work with them. if they do not, then please go away. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. burgess. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. speaker, the bill being considered over in the senate is a bill that sets a floor, not a ceiling, a bill that guarantees 2 million people illegally come into this country every year. mr. speaker, that is on top of the 1.2 million people that are admitted legally every year--and not to mention the people who come in under the radar. yes, i am going to be against that bill, and i will be happy to join my friend from massachusetts in a bipartisan fashion and vote against that legislation because it is bad legislation; not because someone else told me it is bad, but because i know it is bad, and my constituents know it is bad. when we were down in eagle pass, texas, a few weeks ago with the speaker of the house, the deputy chief of the border patrol spoke to us the first evening down there, and he said, we are faced with a raging flood. and when you are faced with that, it is not that i need bigger buckets, i need someone to turn the water off. so is there a way to turn the water off? and he told us there was. simply reinstituting the remain in mexico policy, the migrant protection protocols that president biden undid with an executive order on his first day in office, would reduce the flow by 70 percent and would allow our very beleaguered customs and border protection and immigration and customs enforcement the ability to actually maneuver and do what their job calls for; that is, to protect american citizens. as it stands right now with the massive ingress of people, all they can do is process people. it becomes a question of throughput. so that is not an answer, and do not pretend that it is because the american people see through that. [[page h288]] i will just address one other thing. i am not running for reelection. i am bulletproof. you cannot hurt me. but i support the former president and his approach to border control because i saw it work for the 4 years he was in office. he was the best president of the 21st century, and, yes, i would like to see him back in office; not because someone told me, but my constituents support the type of leadership that he provided for those 4 years. mr. speaker, in closing, this country is being invaded at the southern border--invaded to the extent that governor greg abbott in my home state of texas has officially declared an invasion. this administration has done nothing to help, nothing to help texas, and has, instead, decided to take texas to court to sue texas just for trying to get the smallest bit of relief for its citizens and for its law enforcement officers. the republican majority has, once again, demonstrated that our agenda will be devoted to improving the lives of american citizens. our governing majority will continue to focus on the issues that matter most to the american people: rising energy costs, sky-high inflation, rampant crime, and, yes, fixing our porous southern border. these are issues that the american voters rightfully demand their elected representatives to address. the republican majority is committed to solving the many crises that this president and the minority have inflicted on our nation. today, we begin the most basic duties of stopping and punishing criminals who come across our southern border illegally. i would like to thank representative juan ciscomani from arizona; representative tom mcclintock from california, with whom i serve on the budget committee; and representative barry moore from alabama, for their leadership on these important pieces of legislation. i, again, stand in strong support of the rule and the underlying bills, and i urge my fellow members to support the rule. the material previously referred to by mr. mcgovern is as follows: an amendment to h. res. 980 offered by mr. mcgovern of massachusetts at the end of the resolution, add the following: sec. 5. immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the house shall proceed to the consideration in the house of the bill (h.r. 16) to authorize the cancellation of removal and adjustment of status of certain aliens, and for other purposes. all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. the bill shall be considered as read. all points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on the judiciary or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit. sec. 6. clause 1(c) of rule xix shall not apply to the consideration of h.r. 16. mr. burgess. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time, and i move the previous question on the resolution. the speaker pro tempore (mr. murphy). the question is on ordering the previous question on the resolution. =========================== note =========================== on january 30, 2024, page h288, in the second column, the following appeared: move the previous question on the resolution. the previous question was ordered. the speaker pro tempore (mr. murphy). the question is on adoption of the resolution. the online version has been corrected to read: move the previous question on the resolution. the speaker pro tempore (mr. murphy). the question is on ordering the previous question on the resolution. ========================= end note ========================= the question was taken; and the speaker pro tempore announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this question will be postponed. ____________________