[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 36 (Wednesday, February 28, 2024)]
[House]
[Pages H724-H725]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION RURAL PERFORMANCE REPORT ACT
Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and
pass the bill (H.R. 5265) to amend the Small Business Act to require a
report on the performance of the Office of Rural Affairs, to require a
report on the memorandum of understanding between the Small Business
Administration and the Department of Agriculture entered into on April
4, 2018, and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 5265
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ``Small Business
Administration Rural Performance Report Act''.
SEC. 2. SMALL BUSINESS RURAL PERFORMANCE REPORTS.
(a) Office of Rural Affairs Annual Performance Report.--
Section 26 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 653) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
``(d) Reports.--
``(1) Initial report.--Not later than 90 days after the
date of the enactment of this subsection, the Administrator
shall make available on a website of the Administration, and
submit to the Committee on Small Business of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and
Entrepreneurship of the Senate, a report on the activities of
the Office during the year preceding the date of the report
that includes the following elements:
``(A) How the Office is promoting financial assistance
pursuant to subsection (c)(1).
``(B) Annual statistics compiled pursuant to subsection
(c)(2).
``(C) How the Office is providing information pursuant to
subsection (c)(3).
``(D) How the Office is providing information pursuant to
subsection (c)(4).
``(E) The number of outreach events conducted by the Office
to provide information described in paragraphs (3) and (4) of
subsection (c).
``(F) Details of any partnerships that the Office engaged
in to provide the outreach described in paragraph (5),
including any partnerships with the National Travel and
Tourism Office of the Department of Commerce.
``(G) The name of the director of the Office and the number
of staff employed by the Office.
``(2) Annual report.--The Administrator shall annually
submit, along with the budget the budget justification
materials submitted in support of the Small Business
Administration budget for a fiscal year (as submitted with
the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title
31), a report that includes the elements described in
paragraph (1).''.
(b) Technical Amendment.--Section 26(c)(5) of the Small
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 653(c)(5)) is amended by striking
``United States Tourism and Travel Administration'' and
inserting ``National Travel and Tourism Office of the
Department of Commerce''.
(c) Memorandum of Understanding With Department of
Agriculture Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall make
available on a website of the Administration and submit to
the Committee on Small Business of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and
Entrepreneurship of the Senate a report on the MOU. Such
report shall include a description of the following:
(1) How many working groups convened pursuant to the MOU
the Administration was part of and if the Administration is
still part of any such working groups.
(2) How many staff employed by the Administration were and
are still involved with a working group convened pursuant to
the MOU.
(3) The findings specified in clauses (i) through (iv) of
paragraph (1) of part 2 of the MOU.
(4) The findings specified in clauses (i) through (iv) of
paragraph (2) of part 2 of the MOU.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the
Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
(2) Administration.--The term ``Administration'' means the
Small Business Administration.
(3) MOU.--The term ``MOU'' means the memorandum of
understanding between the Department of Agriculture and the
Small Business Administration entered into on April 4, 2018,
about collaborative efforts to promote stronger businesses
and agricultural economies in rural America.
SEC. 4. COMPLIANCE WITH CUTGO.
No additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this Act or the amendments made by this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. Williams) and the gentlewoman from New York (Ms. Velazquez)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
General Leave
Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all
Members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their
remarks and include extraneous material on the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5265, the Small Business
Administration Rural Performance Report Act, sponsored by the gentleman
from Missouri (Mr. Alford).
It should come as no surprise that rural entrepreneurs face unique
challenges. In extending assistance to these entrepreneurs, the
Department of Agriculture and the Small Business Administration offer a
variety of programs to help them start and grow their businesses.
Unfortunately, government agencies often act in a silo and become
ineffective in their outreach. That is why the Trump administration
created a partnership between the USDA and the SBA to better tailor
their outreach and services to rural entrepreneurs.
After our committee marked up this bill, we were happy to see the SBA
announce that they are going to work to renew another agreement with
the Department of Agriculture. While this progress should not go
unnoticed, this bill goes further to require a report to track the
effectiveness of this agreement and the SBA's Office of Rural Affairs.
If we are going to be spending taxpayer dollars to help accomplish a
goal, there must be performance metrics to see where the ROI is for the
taxpayers and the businesses they are helping.
Mr. Speaker, it is vital that Congress knows just how impactful these
efforts are so we can ensure our rural entrepreneurs are not left
behind. I urge my colleagues to vote for H.R. 5265, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Today, we are considering H.R. 5265, the Small Business
Administration Rural Performance Report Act, which, as amended,
requires an annual performance report and budget justification for the
Office of Rural Affairs.
Mr. Golden has worked relentlessly to increase SBA outreach to rural
small businesses and make sure the Office of Rural Affairs remains
active. I commend Mr. Golden for his efforts, and I am quite
disappointed we are not considering his legislation today, which would
have enhanced the Office of Rural Affairs and was unanimously approved
by the committee in September. I look forward to its speedy
consideration.
Today, we are considering legislation that would require a
performance report and budget updates from the Office of Rural Affairs
so that we can stay apprised of its activities. Currently, we get this
information by simply asking the agency for an update, but this bill
would now statutorily mandate that it is provided.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Pappas for joining Mr. Alford in sponsoring
this legislation, and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may
consume to the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Alford).
Mr. ALFORD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the leadership of our Ranking Member
Velazquez and our esteemed Chairman Williams. It is, indeed, a pleasure
to be on this committee. There are many Members here today who are on
the Small Business Committee and are making a difference for America in
every piece of legislation we pass.
I rise today to speak on the Small Business Administration Rural
Performance Report Act, a bill that we introduced to support our rural
small businesses.
These businesses are essential to rural America, providing over 54
percent of employment in rural communities and counties. This bill
would help us understand how the Small Business Administration is
really helping them succeed.
The bill requires two reports. First, it would give us insight into
the Office
[[Page H725]]
of Rural Affairs, ensuring that they are providing the proper help to
rural businesses.
We are all aware of the crucial role that these businesses play in
our economy, yet the support that they offer is often unknown to small
business owners. At a hearing just last summer, several small business
owners, including Jennifer Cassaday, a constituent of mine who owns
Byrd's Pecan Delights in Adrian, Missouri, came here to testify that
she didn't even know that the Office of Rural Affairs existed.
Mr. Speaker, this bill would change that. It demands clear, detailed
reports on the Office of Rural Affairs and its efforts to aid these
businesses and people like Jennifer.
Are they providing the right assistance? Are the resources and
information reaching those who need it the most?
It is time we had solid answers. This bill would provide them.
Mr. Speaker, the second part of this report requires a review of a
memorandum of understanding between the SBA and the Department of
Agriculture. This Trump-era MOU was a recognition that ag goes hand in
hand with rural small businesses.
Supporting this bill means that we are committed to making sure that
our rural entrepreneurs have the support they need in a timely fashion.
We are standing up for the underrepresented, ensuring our rural small
businesses are not left behind in America. We are promoting the
accountability and oversight needed to support the backbone of our
economy.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to vote for transparency,
responsibility, and the success of our rural small business owners.
Ms. VELAZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time to
close.
Mr. Speaker, small businesses are powerful drivers of economic growth
across the United States, employing 46 percent of the workforce and
generating two-thirds of new jobs. In rural areas, self-employment
tends to be higher than in urban and suburban areas, but the challenges
they face are much greater. Rural small businesses have a harder time
securing affordable capital, finding talented workers, and making ends
meet.
Administrator Guzman is increasing SBA's commitment to rural America
by appointing a new director to the office and improving the outreach
and engagement with rural small businesses. She recognizes the
importance of ensuring rural small businesses have access to SBA's
vital programs. With this type of assistance, rural small businesses
can thrive and, in turn, create good-paying jobs and lift up
communities.
Mr. Speaker, I again thank Mr. Alford, Mr. Pappas, and Mr. Golden for
their leadership on this issue, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. WILLIAMS of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support
this commonsense legislation brought to us by Mr. Pappas, Mr. Golden,
and Mr. Alford. I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Williams) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 5265, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
____________________