[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 1 (Monday, January 4, 2016)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Pages E1-E2]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
HONORING CLIFF KOROLL
______
HON. MIKE QUIGLEY
of illinois
in the house of representatives
Monday, January 4, 2016
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Cliff Koroll, a
Chicago Blackhawks legend.
Cliff Koroll is a Canadian Ukrainian born in Canora, Saskatchewan,
Canada. He played his youth hockey for the Saskatoon Wesleys and helped
them win a Provincial Championship. Cliff continued his education with
his childhood friend Keith Magnuson at the University of Denver. Both
players were standouts and were key factors in winning the NCAA
Championship for Denver University.
Both Cliff Koroll and Keith Magnuson signed with the Blackhawks in
1969. Cliff played 11 seasons in the NHL, all with the Chicago
Blackhawks and became their Assistant Coach for six seasons. I believe
Cliff to be one of the proudest players to wear the Blackhawks sweater.
Cliff is the current President of the Chicago Blackhawks Alumni
Association, a group of retired Blackhawks players that give back to
the Chicago community. Throughout the hard work and dedication of the
late President, Keith Magnuson, and other key individuals, the Chicago
Blackhawks Alumni Association has become a huge success, giving over
one million dollars in college scholarships to the most deserving high
school hockey players in Illinois. The group is also very supportive of
the Ronald McDonald House.
Cliff has also been supportive to the Chicago Legal Clinic, which has
a thirty-four year history of providing legal services to the poor and
elderly in the Chicago area. While serving a host of legal needs, the
Clinic focuses on vulnerable populations, such as immigrants, the
disabled, victims of domestic violence, those facing foreclosure,
children in the midst of divorce, consumers with serious debt issues,
and those confronting urban environmental problems.
Cliff has been inducted into the Saskatchewan Sports Hall of Fame,
Saskatoon Sports Hall of Fame, The Chicago Sports Hall of Fame,
Illinois Amateur Hockey Hall of Fame, the University of Denver Hall of
Fame, and the Ukrainian National Museum in Chicago. I ask my colleagues
to join me in honoring and celebrating his work and accomplishments.
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4, agreed to by the Senate of February
4, 1977, calls for establishment of a system for a computerized
schedule of all meetings and hearings of Senate committees,
subcommittees, joint committees, and committees of conference. This
title requires all such committees to notify the Office of the Senate
Daily Digest--designated by the Rules Committee--of the time, place and
purpose of the meetings, when scheduled and any cancellations or
changes in the meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along with the computerization of this
information, the Office of the Senate Daily Digest will prepare this
information for printing in the Extensions of Remarks section of the
Congressional Record on Monday and Wednesday of each week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, January 5, 2016 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today's Record.
[[Page E2]]
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
JANUARY 12
10 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine defense health care reform.
SD-G50
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions
Business meeting to consider the nomination of Robert
McKinnon Califf, of South Carolina, to be Commissioner
of Food and Drugs, Department of Health and Human
Services.
SD-430
JANUARY 20
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support
To hold an oversight hearing to examine Task Force for
Business and Stability Operations projects in
Afghanistan.
SR-232A