[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 6, 2024)]
[House]
[Page H831]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE AND LEGACY OF PAT O'TOOLE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. D'Esposito). The Chair recognizes the
gentlewoman from Wyoming (Ms. Hageman) for 5 minutes.
Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the life and
legacy of my friend, Mr. Pat O'Toole, a Wyoming cattle and sheep
rancher and hay grower whose deeply rooted passion for agriculture and
love for his community and State will never be forgotten.
I first met Pat when he served with my father in the Wyoming House of
Representatives. He championed numerous agriculture issues during his
time in the State legislature and with the many organizations that he
was a part of. He worked with several Governors' administrations to
advocate for agriculture on the State level and testified before the
U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate on multiple occasions.
Pat was one of the first individuals to ever call my Congressional
office. He did so seeking help for farmers and ranchers in southwestern
Wyoming who were experiencing record amounts of snow and winter kill.
Because of his efforts working with State and Federal leaders, a state
of emergency was declared for the impacted area.
Pat, along with his wife, Sharon, and their family, operated Ladder
Ranch in the Little Snake River Valley and were the recipients of the
2014 Wyoming Leopold Environmental Stewardship Award. Ladder Ranch has
been in Sharon's family since 1881, 9 years before Wyoming even became
a State, and is an excellent tribute to the O'Tooles' devotion to
agriculture and conservation.
Pat loved his neighbors, cared for his community and State, and
sacrificed his time to bless the lives of others. He passed away
peacefully on February 25, leaving behind a legacy of selfless service
that will be forever cherished by those who knew him.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to join me in remembering the
life of Mr. Pat O'Toole.
Recognizing the Life and Legacy of Nevada Krinkee
Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the life and
legacy of Sergeant Nevada Krinkee, a Wyomingite who courageously
defended our country and whose selfless service to his community will
be remembered for generations.
Sergeant Krinkee dedicated his life to serving others and was a proud
member of the 82nd Airborne Division of the U.S. Army during the global
war on terrorism. During his 8 years in the Army, Sergeant Krinkee
earned the rank of staff sergeant and was awarded numerous accolades,
including the Afghanistan Campaign Medal, Army Commendation Medal, Army
Achievement Medal, Combat Infantryman Badge, and his Jump Master Wings.
Following his time in the Army, Sergeant Krinkee joined the Sheridan
Police Department as a patrol officer, where he quickly rose in the
ranks to patrol sergeant.
Sergeant Krinkee cared deeply for his community, our great State, his
wife, Karla, and daughter, Bella. Although Bella may not remember her
father, she will grow up knowing that his heroic actions protected the
lives of all of those around her. Sergeant Krinkee's integrity,
selflessness, and leadership will always be remembered by his
colleagues and community.
On February 13, Sergeant Krinkee tragically lost his life while
serving and protecting his community.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to join me in remembering the
life of Sergeant Nevada Krinkee.
Recognizing the Life and Legacy of Kelly Krause
Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the life and
legacy of Mr. Kelly Krause, a Wyomingite whose love for his neighbors
and the culinary arts will continue to live on through all who knew
him, just as Wyoming will continue to cherish him for many years to
come.
Kelly was a remarkable individual whose presence graced the lives of
everyone he came across. Kelly, along with his wife, Lynette, owned a
local Jackson eatery called the Virginian Restaurant, where his passion
for his community was evident by all who visited. He always greeted
guests with a smile and made them feel as if they were right at home.
On March 1, Kelly tragically lost his life in a skiing accident. As
his family, friends, and the Jackson community mourn his passing,
please know that my sincere prayers and thoughts are with you.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to join me in remembering
the wonderful life of Kelly Krause and standing with his loved ones
during these difficult times.
Recognizing the Goshen County Irrigation District
Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Goshen County
Irrigation District's 100 years of dedicated service to Wyoming water
users.
The district covers hundreds of miles of laterals, drains, and canals
and delivers water to over 52,000 acres of farmland in my State. It
maintains and operates a portion of the Fort Laramie Canal in
partnership with the Gering-Fort Laramie Irrigation District, improving
the lives of farmers, ranchers, and everyone who lives in the region.
Its work is absolutely vital to the prosperity of these local
communities.
Unfortunately, in July of 2019, tunnel number 2 on the Fort Laramie
Canal collapsed, impacting more than 100,000 production acres in
Wyoming and Nebraska and causing $89 million in economic impact.
Updating and repairing this collapsed tunnel has been an incredibly
arduous process, and there is still so much more work to be done.
However, Goshen Irrigation District was both resourceful and quick to
respond.
Its efforts have helped Wyoming to optimize water usage, balancing
the needs of agriculture, industry, and the environment more
effectively. It has been instrumental in mitigating the challenges of
water in the West.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to join me in celebrating
Goshen Irrigation District's 100 years of development and prosperity.
____________________