[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 4 (Thursday, January 7, 2016)]
[House]
[Pages H107-H108]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
HONORING DR. SHARON ELLIOTT-BYNUM, A TRAILBLAZER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. Butterfield) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I rise to express my condolences on the
passing of a giant in the Durham, North Carolina, community, a
trailblazer, one who dedicated her life to improving health outcomes
for disadvantaged citizens, including veterans.
This trailblazer, Mr. Speaker, was my friend, Dr. Sharon Elliott-
Bynum. Sharon passed away on Sunday, January 3, at the young age of 58,
2 days before her 59th birthday.
We lost this giant far too soon, but not before she revolutionized
the delivery of care for those in need through the founding of Durham's
first free-standing, comprehensive healthcare clinic, called Healing
with CAARE.
My first visit as Durham's Congressman was an enlightening visit to
CAARE. I saw Sharon at work, I saw paid staff, and I saw dozens of
community volunteers. We mourn this tremendous loss, but we also
celebrate Sharon's remarkable life, which was replete with the success
that many can only hope to achieve.
Born in Durham, Sharon Elliott-Bynum was a graduate of Northern High
School, Durham Technical Institute, the Watts School of Nursing, and my
alma mater, North Carolina Central University. She also received a
master's degree and a Ph.D. from Victory International College.
Sharon was a dedicated member of a great sorority, Delta Sigma Theta
Sorority, Inc. As a member of the Durham Alumnae Chapter, founded in
1931, she led by example. Sharon was also a member of the National
Council of Negro Women, of Sigma Theta Tau International, of the Top
Ladies of Distinction, and of many more service organizations. Finally,
she was a faithful member of the Faith Assembly Christian Center in
Durham.
Dr. Elliott-Bynum was attracted to the field of nursing when she, at
the age of 16, began volunteering at the historic Lincoln Community
Health Center. Sharon's volunteerism motivated her to pursue a nursing
career. So, in 1995, Dr. Elliott-Bynum and her late sister, Patricia--
``Pat'' she called her--founded Healing with CAARE, Inc.
What began as a nonprofit, community-based provider of services for
individuals who were living with HIV expanded to being the primary
healthcare home for more than 1,000 individuals who live with cancer,
cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and obesity. CAARE
[[Page H108]]
also provides free dental care, substance abuse counseling, a food
pantry, and free housing for homeless veterans.
Her remarkable work has been honored over the years through many
awards and recognitions. They include The Order of the Long Leaf Pine,
which is the highest civilian honor presented by the Governor; the
Congressional Black Caucus Foundation's Veterans Braintrust Award; the
NCCU Distinguished Alumni Award; and the Durham Chamber of Commerce
Women's Leadership Award.
Dr. Elliott-Bynum's lifetime of tireless work and service to
thousands of disadvantaged individuals had an immeasurable impact on
the Durham community, a grateful community that joins me today in
celebrating this life.
I ask my colleagues to join me in expressing our recognition to Dr.
Sharon Elliott-Bynum's two children, Ebony Elliott-Covington and Damien
Elliott-Bynum; to her beloved brother, Joe Elliott, Jr.; to her
sisters, Carolyn Hinton and Addie Mann; to her grandson, Ahmad; to the
entire CAARE family; and to all of those who have been impacted by her
extraordinary work. Some of her family members are with us today.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, on tomorrow, I will say just a few words at
the Celebration of Life service in Durham by making a very plain, but
profound, point. It goes like this: Durham, North Carolina, is a better
place to live and work because of the unselfish service of Dr. Sharon
Elliott-Bynum.
May she rest in peace, a life well lived.
____________________