[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 3 (Wednesday, January 6, 2016)]
[House]
[Pages H18-H19]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
GUN VIOLENCE AND THE PATH FORWARD
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Oregon (Mr. Blumenauer) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, traditionally we start the new year on a
note of hope. Notwithstanding troubled headlines and difficulties home
and abroad, the new year is an opportunity to consider the future
afresh, to reflect on opportunities, past accomplishments, and new
opportunities.
I appreciate President Obama beginning the new year with a continued
focus on gun safety. His modest proposal was greeted with predictable
opposition and scorn as some Republican politicians attempted to
distort it all out of proportion and to change the subject to a
nonissue: confiscation of the guns of law-abiding Americans when, in
fact, virtually all responsible American gun owners support reasonable
background checks to make it more difficult for people we all agree
should not be armed to get guns.
It is interesting to speculate on what would have been the response
in today's superheated, contentious political climate with the efforts
of a generation ago to reduce the carnage on our highways from
unnecessary auto deaths or the hundreds of thousands of people who
became addicted to cigarettes and died of cancer and heart disease.
There would have been screams of outrage about the nanny state and
political correctness, that the government was going to take cigarettes
away from people because it knew what was best for them. It was going
to force people to pay unconscionable levels of tax that would fall on
the poor, that a
[[Page H19]]
more aggressive auto engineering program was the government telling the
private sector and the consumer what was best for them, that it would
drive up the cost of automobiles, and that it would have law
enforcement interfere with people having an innocent drink on a night
on the town.
Most telling would have been the argument that this really wouldn't
make any difference, that none of these steps would stop people from
smoking or reckless driving on the roadways. People would still die.
Those excuses for inaction are demonstrably false a generation later.
We have cut the rates of adult smoking in half and saved millions of
lives. The carnage on our highways has been dramatically reduced and
American families are safer.
It is important to have perspective going forward. Yes, there is no
single solution to gun violence. But the fact remains that the United
States is unique among developed countries, being unable to protect our
families from unacceptable levels of death at the hands of the deranged
or the careless.
There are things we can do to make a difference, and the public is
willing to accept them. I begin this new year hopeful that we don't
have to accept Capitol Hill as an island of denial, whether it is the
threat from climate change or the potential to do something about gun
violence to make our families safer.
Last year, there were times when we in Congress came together and
produced some constructive results. At the State and local level,
people are not waiting for our Republican colleagues to come to their
senses to deal with carbon pollution or gun violence. They are taking
action.
I am hopeful that we will be able to broaden the conversation about
what, in fact, we can do: tone down the rhetoric and find steps on
issues that are both contentious and even those where there is
basically no disagreement but we simply haven't gotten around to taking
action.
{time}  1015
There are clear opportunities for us to broaden that agenda. We can
avert a crisis in Gaza from a lack of water and adequate sanitation. We
could pass Representative Murphy's bipartisan mental health bill. We
could link food and farm policy with new awareness and research.
Let's not in 2016 have the opportunities for cooperation and progress
drowned with political vitriol. Let's cooperate where we can, focus on
solutions even where we can't, and set the stage for giving Americans
what they deserve: a government not in denial, a Congress willing to
cooperate and to face problems, large and small, so as to make progress
rather than to revel in discord and hyperbole in order to win votes in
contentious primaries. Let's focus on what we can get done and do it.
We will feel better, and the American public will be better served.
____________________