[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 40 (Wednesday, March 6, 2024)]
[House]
[Pages H830-H831]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
HONORING COLLEEN POBUR
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. Stevens) for 5 minutes.
Ms. STEVENS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to shine a spotlight on a
truly extraordinary woman, my good friend and amazing district chief of
staff, Colleen Pobur. Today is Colleen's birthday, and I am delighted
to recognize her on this special occasion. Colleen is not only a leader
in my office, but she is a leader in Oakland County, Michigan, and
throughout the metro Detroit region.
As a lifelong Michiganian, Colleen is a proud, if not the proudest,
graduate of the University of Michigan. She graduated with a degree in
French and obtained the ability to speak the language fluently.
Of course, she has an undying passion for Michigan football. Whether
in the stadium or in her living room, she can be found avidly cheering
on the Wolverines during every single game and, of course, adorning her
U of M paraphernalia. Suffice to say, last fall was a pretty good one
for Colleen when the U of M Wolverines were the undefeated champions.
Since graduating, in reality, if not in spirit, Colleen has spent her
extraordinary career making life better for the people of Michigan.
Colleen's contributions as a businesswoman and a public servant are
truly too numerous to count, but here are just a few.
If you have ever flown through the Detroit airport and gotten
something to eat, that is thanks to Colleen, who developed the award-
winning buffet of concession options at DTW.
If you have ever had a beer in Michigan, that is thanks to Colleen.
She kept bars open and legally serving after being appointed by
Governor Jennifer Granholm to the Michigan Liquor Control Commission.
Of course, if you are a constituent in Michigan's 11th District and
have ever had a Federal Government case solved, well, that is thanks to
Colleen, who oversees our exceptional casework program and has helped
the team return thousands of dollars to Michiganders'
[[Page H831]]
pockets. Yes, she even regularly picks up the phone in our office to
engage and talk with constituents directly. No task is too big or too
small for Colleen.
Colleen has also worked in the private sector where she served as
vice president of strategic public affairs and as director of the new
product launch strategies for the Compuware Corporation, as well as the
director of external relations and economic development for
Ameritech Michigan.
Colleen has also worked tirelessly to represent her community as a
member of the Plymouth City Commission for over a decade, in addition
to chairing the Plymouth's Brownfield Redevelopment Authority, serving
on the Plymouth Economic Development Corp, and overseeing the fire
department that serves the communities of Northville and Plymouth. If
there is an arcane or overly complicated municipal precedent, Colleen
has the ability to explain it and already knows all about it.
When she is not making Oakland County run, Colleen is also a mom to
college-age twins, Caroline and Will. Whether visiting Caroline in
England or cheering on Will at a game, Colleen is a woman on the move.
She is a dedicated friend, sister, and public servant. She is whip
smart and has a one-liner for every situation. She makes us all laugh
regularly and makes sure we are up to date on Michigan sports stats.
She is truly a renaissance woman, a role model, and a leader.
Colleen's drive and dedication to Oakland County are unmatched. She
is clearly not someone to rest on her laurels. She has a heart for
Michigan and a head for business, and I couldn't be luckier that she is
on my team. I truly could not imagine these terms in Congress without
her counsel, advice, and willingness to talk to me on the phone or in
person, no matter the hour.
Mr. Speaker, I say to Colleen on her special day, from all of us in
Oakland County and here in the Congress, happy birthday. As The
Washington Post or The Wall Street Journal has recognized people born
in her birth year, she continues to redefine norms and transform
society. Here's to many more years of making life just a little bit
better for the people of Michigan.
____________________