[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 4 (Thursday, January 7, 2016)]
[House]
[Page H106]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
MALHEUR NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Oregon (Mr. Blumenauer) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Mr. Speaker, with the odd drama playing out in Oregon
where armed thugs have taken over a Federal wildlife facility, it is
important to reflect on what the wildlife refuge system is all about.
If these people had any argument with the President, it was with
President Roosevelt, who 108 years ago established the Malheur National
Wildlife Refuge as a response to protect natural resources, especially
the slaughter of wild birds for feathers to adorn women's hats.
It is ironic that the President, who in his younger days participated
in the slaughter of over 6 million buffalo that roamed the Midwest
plains on a magnificent ecostructure, realized the necessity of
protecting these resources. Today we benefit from the foresight of this
conservation President who provided the cornerstone of environmental
protection that enriches us all.
The notion that somehow this is the ``wild west,'' where people can
do with public land what they want, is thoroughly discredited. This
mind-set from the 1800s that there were endless, wide-open spaces,
where people could do what they wished, when they wished, where they
wished, is tinged with regret and tragedy. We took away the land from
Native Americans that our government had given to them in solemn
treaty, ratified by Congress.
The mind-set that public lands of the West were to be exploited as
rapidly as possible is still embodied in the Mining Act of 1872, which
essentially allows anyone, including foreign mining operations, to
exploit our country's mineral resources at basically no cost and with
no enforceable obligation to repair the damage they inflicted. The West
is now blighted with thousands of abandoned mines and oil and gas wells
that will risk being a permanent scar on the landscape. While private
profit was pursued, the public was left with the consequences and the
cost of cleanup, if it ever occurs.
The longstanding battles over American rangeland between competing
owners and between competing uses, like cattle and sheep, were not
pretty. There is no doubt that there are still significant problems
dealing with public land management, in part because the rules of the
game are still set by the Mining Act of 1872 and the Taylor Grazing Act
of 1934.
All but the most reckless individuals would agree that if these
statutes were written today they would look fundamentally different
with more protections and clarity. It was into this void that Teddy
Roosevelt stepped, declaring critical national monuments. He
established wildlife refuges to benefit countless generations to come.
These amazing treasures are not just scenic wonders. They hold
extraordinarily valuable habitat for wildlife, waterfowl, helping
preserve the land and the water and the ecosystem that goes far beyond
what is simply spectacular to look at.
This is America's heritage. We struggle on an ongoing basis to
recover from the reckless, thoughtless exploitation of the last two
centuries. The vast majority of the American public supports this
effort, even if they never visit the remote Western regions. Indeed,
the fact that they are often inaccessible is the only way that they are
preserved. Imagine tour buses, motorized vehicles, hordes of tourists,
their infrastructure and their litter, and the destructive effects that
would have.
The sideshow with the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge obscures a
much larger and important public policy: protecting our heritage,
enhancing it, and avoiding reckless behavior of a few that will
penalize generations to come.
That is why the Harney Basin Wetlands Initiative of people in that
region, facilitated by the refuge between 2010 and 2013, was a textbook
example of collaboration, where all the stakeholders created a vision
and a 20-year plan for the refuge and the surrounding landscape,
including the biggest wetland restoration project ever undertaken.
It would be valuable for us to look behind the headlines to the facts
on the ground, the history of the resource, the struggle for
protection, the tremendous benefits for all Americans, and what the
stakeholders in that region accomplished together.
____________________