[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 7 (Tuesday, January 12, 2016)]
[House]
[Pages H286-H288]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN SCIENCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. Speier) for 5 minutes.
Ms. SPEIER. Mr. Speaker, universities are supposed to be in the
business of illumination, but as we have seen in recent cases at Cal
Tech and at UC Berkeley, that is not always the case.
At UC, world-renowned astronomer Geoff Marcy sexually harassed
students for years with no consequences. The light of knowledge can
cast some dark shadows. Brave women recently alerted my office to still
more harassment in astronomy, now at the University of Arizona.
Mr. Speaker, I include for the Record this report from the University
of Arizona regarding Dr. Timothy Slater. This report was sealed for
over a decade while Dr. Slater went on with his career. His example
shows why so few women continue careers in science and in engineering.
Confidential
Investigative Report
Complaint No: 04-06A-MKM
Complainant: Administrative Review
Respondent: Dr. Timothy Slater
Department: Department of Astronomy, Steward Observatory
Date Complaint Received: August 2004
Report Date: March 31, 2005
background
Prior to July 2004, several individuals approached the
EOAAO to discuss sexually charged conduct they were
experiencing in the College of Astronomy, and Steward
Observatory. They stated that the conduct was occurring
across ranks; some indicated the conduct was creating a
sexually hostile work environment. Some indicated retaliation
might be occurring. These individuals refused to file
complaints against the department because they feared work-
related repercussions, including unlawful retaliation.
Consequently the EOAAO met with administrators in the
Department of Astronomy and Steward Observatory to discuss
initiating an investigation into sexual harassment, sexually
hostile work environment. The department, in turn, formalized
a request for investigation, such that this Administrative
Review began in August 2004.
Responsive to evidence obtained in the early stages of
investigation, the EOAAO named Dr. Tim Slater as a respondent
in this case, on September 24, 2004. The EOAAO notified Dr.
Slater of his respondent status in accordance with EOAAO
procedures, identifying sexual harassment and retaliation as
the relevant issues.
Dr. Slater was hired by the University of Arizona on August
6, 2001, as an Associate Professor of Astronomy. He received
tenure standing in May 2004. He has a variety of duties at
the university, including his post as the Conceptual
Astronomy and Physics Education Research (CAPER) team leader.
scope of investigation
In the course of the investigation, the investigator
interviewed multiple individuals--some more than once--who
were associated with the Department of Astronomy, Steward
Observatory, and/or the CAPER team. Witnesses were selected
either randomly, or with an effort to cross-section levels of
authority and closeness, professional and/or personal, with
the respondent. All efforts were made to get a comprehensive
point of view.
issue
Did Dr. Slater violate the University's Sexual Harassment
Policy, as well as the policy's Retaliation component?
Witness B stated that Dr. Slater and Witness J make a lot
of sexual jokes and create sexual banter on a regular basis.
She noted a lot of the women tend to ignore this when it is
occurring around them.
On a regular basis, Dr. Slater has told Witness B she would
teach better if she did not wear underwear.
On at least one occasion he grabbed her underwear through
her dress, stretched it and snapped it, and said, ``You'd
look a whole lot better without these on,'' or words to that
effect. That same day he invited her to attend a lunch with a
visiting female graduate student from [redacted] and Witness
J. Dr. Slater indicated they would be lunching at a local
topless bar. At lunch both Dr. Slater and Witness J paid for
and received lap dances. Dr. Slater offered to purchase a lap
dance for Witness B; she declined and he did not push the
issue further.
Witness B reported that during the semester the sexual
conduct occurs daily.
Witness C provided the following information:
Witness C stated that she has continual but infrequent
interaction with Dr. Slater during the course of her work.
She stated that her concern regarding Dr. Slater reflects
sexual conduct occurring on one day: [redacted] Witness C
traveled with Dr. Slater to [redacted] by car, in the company
of a female graduate student.
During the car trip, Witness C told Dr. Slater some work
she had completed for CAPER. He responded by saying,
``Awesome! I could just kiss you full on the mouth,'' or
words very close to those. Witness C stated she found this
response distasteful.
Later he asked her, ``How bad can I be with you?'' When she
asked him what he meant, he asked her if she would be
reporting his comments back to her supervisor.
Dr. Slater went on to relate that when he goes to academic
conferences out of town he goes online to set up ``hook-ups''
(sexual dates) with women in the geographic area. He told
Witness C that his personal (sexual) record was four (4)
women in twenty-four (24) hours.
Dr. Slater also stated that he and his wife occasionally
set up manage-a-trois.
Dr. Slater and the accompanying female graduate student
discussed the upcoming visit of Dr. Slater's colleague. She
asked Dr. Slater if she would have to sleep with him, to
which Dr. Slater replied, ``No, not this one.'' Witness C
looked at them and exclaimed, ``What?'' whereupon Dr. Slater
told her that occasionally he might have to ask her to take
one for the team.
Talking about Witness J, Dr. Slater said, ``Yeah, he likes
the young ones. Witness C asked if that individual did not
have a girlfriend. Dr. Slater replied that a girlfriend was
one thing, but a student was another. Witness C asked if the
students were minors, to which Dr. Slater responded that they
were all probably over 18.
He added that he, Dr. Slater, preferred a more mature woman
who knew ``her way around the bedroom.'' Some minutes later
he turned to Witness C and asked her if she knew ``anything
about or was any good at giving blowjobs, because (the
accompanying female--name deleted) does not like to give or
receive them--maybe you could give her some pointers.''
Witness C then told Slater he was being completely
inappropriate. She said, ``You barely know me. I only started
a couple of weeks ago, and you're already talking to me like
this. Doesn't the U of A give sexual harassment training, or
were your absent that day?'' She went on to say that she has
a particularly large boyfriend (whom she described, in part,
as Black) She told Dr. Slater that he would not appreciate
the manner in which Dr. Slater was speaking to her. Dr.
Slater then asked Witness C if it were true that once you
went black, you'd never go back,'' or words to that effect.
Later Dr. Slater joked that he would pull off at a rest
stop so they could have a threesome. Witness C responded by
saying, ``Like that's going to happen,'' or words to that
effect. After that she tried changing the subject every time
it turned sexual, and then she related a story of personal
tragedy (non-sexual,) which she noted seemed to sober Dr.
Slater and the other female right away.
Witness C stated that she reported Dr. Slater's conduct to
the Principle Investigator (PI) on her project. The PI, in
turn, told her she should report it to her supervisor, which
she did.
[Relevant to Witness D's testimony] Witness C stated she
was aware that Dr. Slater appeared to be trying to take
[redacted] program [redacted] away from the department and
bring it over to Steward Observatory where he also works. She
stated he has been pulling funding from the program.
Additionally he bad-mouths the Program Coordinator, Witness
C's supervisor. He has also been giving responsibilities
previously held by that supervisor to his various graduate
students.
The witness recalled that other female graduate students
had commented that their advisors, Dr. Slater and Witness J,
were too sexual in their demeanor.
Information from Respondent
On September 30, 2004 Dr, Tim Slater provided the following
information:
He stated that he recalled two occasions on which
individuals complained directly to him about his personal
conduct.
In [redacted] talking about a bachelor party at a strip
club, such that a graduate student commented, ``That really
creeps me out when you talk that way in front of me,'' or
words to that affect. He recalled apologizing.
A graduate student and former CAPER team member telling him
that it had made her uncomfortable when he massaged her
shoulders publicly, while hosting a teacher workshop. Dr.
Slater recalled that she was concerned others might
misinterpret the nature of their relationship, were they to
observe his gesture.
Dr. Slater characterized himself as a ``touchy'' person who
often hugs people. He stated that he is a ``flirtatious''
person, and defined that as ``friendly,'' and ``flattering.''
He stated this is mostly with the CAPER group, since CAPER
constitutes his primary professional and social interaction.
Dr. Slater stated that he hugs males as well as females,
and that he brought many people on the team [CAPER] from
Montana and Kansas [universities there.] Many had lived in
his house with him and his wife from time to time, and some
of the relationships were of 10-12 years' duration. He added
they had been in each other's weddings. He stated that they
all socialize together at someone's house (often his) on 2-3
occasions per month.
Dr. Slater stated that he and Witness J run the CAPER
group, and that within the group they have a joke that he,
Slater, is the ``mom,'' and Witness J is the ``dad.'' He
stated that some of the CAPER team members were more like
family than others; he listed the two groups.
Regarding reports that he had given out ``sex toys'' at
social events; he recalled that
[[Page H287]]
he had given one female graduate student a pickle or
cucumber-shaped vibrator at a ``pre-marriage'' party. He
could not recall having given out chocolate handcuffs, as
specifically alleged. Regarding the vibrator, he recalled
that the recipient was a collector of the vegetable it
represented, and that he was certain she was not offended by
it. He recalled there were pickle or cucumber jokes going
around the office for several days, thereafter.
Dr. Slater did not recall making the comment that he would
have to install cameras in his home, as alleged, and
referential to the alleged comment that everyone [in CAPER]
had engaged in sexual activity in his home. Dr. Slater
reiterated that many of the CAPER team members had, in fact,
lived with him at his house over the years.
Regarding allegations that he stopped to look at women, and
commented on their appearance, he stated this was common
practice for him, and that he might have done it anywhere
from ``one-to-ten-to-a-hundred times.'' He denied that he had
a rating system, but recalled saying things like, ``You're
going to have to say that again, because that's too
distracting.'' He confirmed he had made such comments to
women in the department and often Witness J, who joked with
him in a similar fashion.
Regarding allegations that he told a colleague he had a
prohibition against ``blue balls'' in the office (referencing
an exercise ball,) he stated he did not recall making the
comment, but that it was ``consistent'' with the kinds of
comments he would make.
He believed he had not told a colleague he would have
invited her to swim over the weekend but for the likelihood
she would wear her swim suit. He stated he doubted that
comment because he is not exclusionary by nature.
He did not recall telling a [subordinate female] colleague
that she would teach better were she to stop wearing
underwear, and did not recall snapping her underwear [through
her T-shirt dress, as alleged.] However, he stated, he did
tend to say a lot of sexual things.
Dr. Slater confirmed that he took a visiting female
graduate student, as well as a male and a female
[subordinate] colleague to lunch at a local strip club. He
did not recall that specific event, but stated that he [and
the accompanying male] usually purchase lap dances when they
go. He usually offers to purchase lap dances for others, as
well. He stated they go about once per month, and that it's
usually a mixed group (male and female.)
Dr. Slater recalled that a group of department women had
gone to a male club in honor of a wedding or birthday, and
reported having a terrible time. Somehow, as an offshoot to
that situation, one of the women [Witness B] thought she
might like female clubs better, and decided to join the men.
He could not recall how many times she attended, but thought
probably several. He stated that he has gone with his wife,
and several of the graduate students and/or colleagues. He
stated the tab is always collected for ``Dutch'' treat:
departmental funds are never used.
For complete report go to
http://speier.house.gov.
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC, January 11, 2016.
Catherine E. Lhamon,
Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Office of Civil Rights,
Department of Education, Washington, DC.
Dear Assistant Secretary Lhamon: Thank you for your
leadership and commitment to eradicating sexual harassment
and assault on college campuses. Knowing your interest in
this area, I wanted to bring the attached report to your
attention, which details disturbing sexual harassment by a
former faculty member at the University of Arizona. Despite
finding that Dr. Timothy Slater committed a policy violation
in the matter of ``sexual harassment, hostile work
environment,'' the report and its incriminatory revelation
were sealed, and Dr. Slater moved to a new job at the
University of Wyoming, where he continues to supervise
students and teach workshops. In light of this, I ask that
the Office of Civil Rights clarify whether universities that
find a Title IX violation by faculty or staff are required to
disclose the results of their investigation to other
educational institutions.
The incidents described in the report are alarming. One
complainant said that Dr. Slater told her on a regular basis
that ``she would teach better if she did not wear underwear''
and ``grabbed her underwear through her dress, stretched it
and snapped it, and said `You'd look a whole lot better
without these on,' or words to that effect.'' He asked
another complainant ``if she knew anything about or was any
good at giving blow jobs, because (name deleted) does not
like to give or received them--maybe you could give her some
pointers.'' Dr. Slater himself admitted that he gave an
employee a vegetable-shaped vibrator, that he frequently
commented to his employees and students about the appearance
of passing women, and that he told one person ``that his
personal sexual record was four women in 24 hours.''
Staff spoke directly to a witness who recounted several
inappropriate interactions. She observed Dr. Slater
instructing an undergraduate student to ``touch your elbows
behind your back for me'' in order to scrutinize the
student's breasts, and touching graduate students on the leg
while making inappropriate statements. At a lab social event
at the Slaters' residence, video pornography was shown before
dinner. She recounted hearing Dr. Slater tell male colleagues
on more than one occasion that he enjoyed teaching large
lectures in rooms with stadium seating because the female
students in Arizona wear short skirts and often forget to
cross their legs. Dr. Slater once required the witness to
attend a lunch at a fully nude strip club with him in order
to discuss her academic work, with the implied consequence
that he would not discuss her work with her if she refused to
go. While she was there, she was pressured to attend future
lunches at the strip club. According to the witness, it was
made clear to her, though never explicitly stated, that if
she wanted to function in the lab that she had to take part
in this sexualized culture. Because of these incidents, the
witness left the field of astronomy.
Staff spoke directly to another witness, who experienced
inappropriate comments and unwanted physical contact from Dr.
Slater. At a one-on-one work meeting, he told her that all
the other graduate students had sex at his house, that he had
video cameras, and asked when she would also have sex at his
house. During a lab social, she witnessed Dr. Slater and
another lab supervisor stating that at this party, lab
members were going to use the Slaters' hot tub naked. Dr.
Slater also touched her shoulders and stroked her back while
she was teaching, until she sent him a formal email
requesting that he stop. Due to the hostile work environment,
the witness transferred out of Dr. Slater's group, losing
years of progress towards her graduate degree.
A third witness separately confirmed that Dr. Slater led
laboratory outings to strip clubs.
The Slater report is disturbingly similar to the recent
case at the University of California, Berkeley, in which Dr.
Geoff Marcy, a prominent astronomer, violated campus sexual
harassment policies with minimal consequences for 9 years
until his story was publicized through the media. As the
University of Arizona did with the Slater case, UC Berkeley
kept the final report on Dr. Marcy's behavior confidential,
perhaps because, as Science Magazine put it, ``[t]he details
of UC Berkeley's inquiry into Marcy's conduct does not
reflect well on the institution, with the process stretching
for more than 4 years and Marcy given only weak sanctions
after repeated promises to reform.'' The final report from UC
Berkeley contained a sentence that could be applied equally
to Dr. Marcy and Dr. Slater: ``[i]t cannot be overstated how
Respondent's inherent influence and authority over the
complainants, real or perceived, heightened the impact of his
behavior on those experiencing or witnessing it.''
The Slater case, while lurid, is just a symptom of a much
larger problem--how to prevent harassment, and effectively
deal with it when it occurs. Dr. Slater states that he is now
reformed, but there are still few consequences for faculty
members who sexually harass students. In some ways, the
situation is reminiscent of the Catholic Church's coddling of
child-molesting priests. As in the Church, universities
protect perpetuators with slap-on-the-wrist punishment and
secrecy, while victims are left alone to try to put their
academic careers and lives back together. One peer-reviewed
study found that over a quarter of women surveyed (and 6% of
men) have been sexually assaulted while conducting scientific
fieldwork, and 71% of women and 41% of men also reported that
they were sexually harassed.
The profound effect of this dynamic on the participation of
women in science cannot be overstated. From 2002 through
2012, women received one-third or fewer of the doctorates
awarded in physical sciences, mathematics, engineering, and
computer science, and as of 2013 one-third or fewer of all
tenure or tenure track faculty positions in core STEM fields
were held by women. Indeed, all of the victims we talked to
suffered career consequences as a direct result of the
harassment, including losing years of graduate work, forgoing
professional opportunities, and changing fields of study. In
the Marcy case, one of the victims, who had aspired to work
at NASA, left astrophysics entirely as a direct result of
being harassed.
When students found to have violated university policy
through the Title IX disciplinary process transfer to another
institution, the university that found the violation may
inform the other institution, but is not obligated to do so.
While this policy is vastly insufficient, it at least allows
universities to have the option to inform other universities
of the final results of a disciplinary proceeding. However,
no similar guidance exists for faculty or staff. I ask that
the Office of Civil Rights issue a clarification on the FERPA
or Title IX disclosure requirements when faculty or staff
whose conduct violated Title IX transfer to another
institution.
Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. I look
forward to hearing from you soon.
Sincerely,
Jackie Speier.
Ms. SPEIER. Mr. Speaker, some universities protect predatory
professors with slaps on the wrist and secrecy, just like the Catholic
Church sheltered child-molesting priests for many decades.
The incidents described in this report are lurid and disturbing. One
graduate student was told regularly by Dr.
[[Page H288]]
Slater that she would teach better if she did not wear underwear. He
asked another graduate student to give women pointers on oral sex
techniques.
Dr. Slater himself admitted that he gave an employee a vegetable-
shaped vibrator and that he frequently commented to his employees and
students about the appearance of women.
My staff spoke with one female grad student who was required to
attend a strip club in order to discuss her academic work with Dr.
Slater. The woman has since left the field of astronomy.
The second female grad student told us that, during a one-on-one work
meeting with Dr. Slater, he told her that all of the other graduate
students had had sex at his house, that he had video cameras, and asked
when she would join him to have sex there. She transferred out of Dr.
Slater's lab, losing years of work.
This is a significant reason as to why women hold fewer than one-
third of the faculty positions in science and engineering.
Dr. Slater has said he is now reformed, which may be the case, but
his actions, however lurid, are just symptoms of a larger problem of
how to effectively deal with sexual harassment in academia.
I agree with Dr. Meg Urry, the president of the American Astronomical
Society, who said: ``In my view, this is what it would take to move the
needle: severe and visible consequences for violating policies on
harassment--and they do have to be visible.''
That is why I plan to introduce legislation to require universities
to inform other universities of the final results of a disciplinary
proceeding. When students, faculty, or staff whose conduct has violated
title IX transfer to another institution, the universities to which
they are moving should be aware of their past conduct.
I encourage anyone who has experienced sexual harassment in science,
whether it is related to this incident or another, to call my office.
Students enter astronomy to study the stars, not their professors'
sex lives. It is time to stop pretending sexual harassment in science
happened a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away.
____________________