[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 22 (Wednesday, February 7, 2024)]
[House]
[Pages H509-H519]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
PROTECTING HEALTH CARE FOR ALL PATIENTS ACT OF 2023
General Leave
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend
their remarks and to insert extraneous material in the Record on H.R.
485.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania). Is there
objection to the request of the gentlewoman from Washington?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 996 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union for the consideration of the bill, H.R. 485.
The Chair appoints the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Meuser) to
preside over the Committee of the Whole.
{time}  0915
In the Committee of the Whole
Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for the consideration of the bill
(H.R. 485) to amend title XI of the Social Security Act to prohibit the
use of quality-adjusted life years and similar measures in coverage and
payment determinations under Federal health care programs, with Mr.
Meuser in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the bill is considered read the
first time.
General debate shall be confined to the bill and amendments specified
in this section and shall not exceed 1 hour equally divided and
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on
Energy and Commerce or their respective designees.
The gentlewoman from Washington (Mrs. Rodgers) and the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. Pallone) each will control 30 minutes.
The chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Washington.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as
I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.R. 485, my Protecting
Health Care for All Patients Act, which affirms every person's life has
value by banning the use of quality-adjusted life years, or QALYs, and
similar discriminatory measures from all Federal healthcare programs.
As many of you know, my son Cole was born with an extra 21st
chromosome. Most of you know it as Down syndrome.
When Cole was born, the doctors gave us a long list of challenges and
chances for heartache. It was difficult, but I could have never
imagined just how positively he would impact my life, my family's life,
and the world.
Today, Cole is a fun-loving 16-year-old with big dreams. He wants to
be a football player, a pastor, and a race car driver. He is on the
basketball team. He plays the drums. For Cole, the sky is the limit.
Cole and others with disabilities deserve every opportunity to
succeed. We shouldn't be discounting their potential or prejudging the
quality of their life just because of their disabilities.
Unfortunately, several tools frequently used in our healthcare system
do just that. QALYs, and other similar discriminatory measures, assign
a dollar value on the life of a patient to decide if a certain
treatment is cost effective, oftentimes discounting an individual's
worth and the need for care solely because of their disability or
chronic illness.
It means a bureaucracy coldly determines the value of someone's life
and could deny necessary healthcare due to that calculation.
Measurements like QALYs remove the consideration of unique
circumstances and health conditions of a patient and their doctor's
judgment from deciding what is best for the patient.
I am not alone in opposing the use of these measures.
Democrats acknowledged this when they passed the Affordable Care Act,
and they banned the use of QALYs in Medicare.
In 2020, the Democratic National Committee platform stated that:
``Democrats will ensure that people with disabilities are never denied
coverage based on the use of quality-adjusted life year (QALY)
indexes.''
The nonpartisan National Council on Disabilities wrote a report in
2019 titled: ``Quality-Adjusted Life Years and the Devaluation of Life
with a Disability'' that condemned the usage of QALYs and they have
continued to write additional letters to Congress urging us to ban
their use.
Additionally, we have heard from nearly 200 advocacy groups spanning
the political spectrum who are calling on Congress to prohibit the use
of QALYs and other discriminatory measures.
This legislation, the Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act,
bans Federal payers, like Medicaid and VA healthcare, from using QALYs
or other discriminatory measures that devalue the lives of people with
disabilities and chronic or rare diseases, and it does it by simply
applying the current ban on QALYs and other similar measures that exist
in Medicare today to all Federal payers.
In passing this bill, it will mean that healthcare bureaucracies can
no longer discriminate against the weakest and most vulnerable
patients, and it will help ensure that people can get the healthcare
that they need and that their doctors think is best.
This would be a big deal.
Medicaid is the largest payer for people with disabilities, and we
are letting it use measures that discriminate against the very people
it was designed to support.
That is nothing to say of the millions of injured or disabled
veterans who rely on the VA for their healthcare, which is also allowed
to use these types of measures.
However, let me be clear in this: H.R. 485 does not prohibit
healthcare programs from rewarding value or finding other ways to hold
down costs.
For example, if a treatment does not work or shouldn't be covered or
it is more appropriate to start with other more cost-effective
treatments first, nothing in this bill will preclude the Federal payers
from continuing to make these kinds of coverage decisions.
In fact, the National Council on Disability has already identified
alternative ways to measure value that do not devalue the life of
someone with a disability or chronic illness.
Because of Cole, I have spent my time in Congress as an ability
advocate, encouraging people to focus on every individual's God-given
talent and potential.
Millions of Americans like Cole need their voices to be heard.
Whenever I meet someone with a disability or chronic illness, or with
their family, I hear the same thing over and over: They want the same
chances to succeed in life as everyone else.
You know what? We are all just one car accident or one diagnosis away
from having a disability ourselves.
I hope that banning the use of discriminatory measures by Federal
payers against people with disabilities and chronic illness and
affirming every person's life has value is something that we can agree
on. Let's give people with disabilities, rare diseases, or chronic
diseases hope.
Mr. Chairman, I urge support of this important legislation, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 485,
the so-called Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act, a bill that,
unfortunately, does not live up to its name.
This legislation is not about protecting healthcare for patients.
Instead, it is a Trojan horse intended to undermine the progress that
President Biden and Democrats have made in lowering prescription drug
costs for American families.
My Republican colleagues say this bill is intended to prevent the
Secretary of Health and Human Services from using a measure called
``quality-adjusted life years,'' or QALYs, which could be
discriminatory against Americans living with disabilities, but Federal
law, including the Inflation Reduction Act, already prohibits Medicare
from using QALYs in its coverage determination, and State Medicaid
programs are required by law to cover all drugs.
[[Page H510]]
Instead, H.R. 485 goes further than current law and opens a back door
that will be used to bar the use of any value measures by the Federal
Government. These measures are used by Federal agencies such as the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, the Department of Veterans
Affairs, and by States to negotiate fair prices for prescription drugs.
When this bill came before the Energy and Commerce Committee, I
sought to clarify its intent through an amendment during markup. My
amendment would have ensured the legislation could not be construed to
undermine Federal agencies or the Biden administration's ongoing work
to lower prescription drug prices for Americans, but that amendment was
rejected on a party-line vote.
I still do not understand why the Republican majority would be
opposed to clarifying that the bill before us today is not intended to
undermine the Federal Government's efforts to determine fair prices for
prescription drugs.
Now, I respect the chairman of our committee a great deal, but she
keeps talking about how she is banning similar discriminatory measures.
Well, the fact of the matter is that the bill doesn't say ``similar
discriminatory measures.''
If she had said during the markup that she was willing to ban things
that were discriminatory, it might have been a different situation. We
might have had a consensus, but that is not what is going on here. This
says ``QALYs or similar measures,'' not similar discriminatory
measures.
Some may say: Well, what is the difference?
The difference is the word ``discriminatory'' is not in the language
of the bill.
We have no problem banning things that are discriminatory, like QALYs
or similar discriminatory measures, but that is not in there.
So the problem is that this will be used by pharma to raise prices.
The vagueness of the language opens up the door to pharma and the drug
companies to sue and say that negotiated prices and efforts to try to
reduce costs are not acceptable.
I am not suggesting that that is what the Republicans have in mind
necessarily, but that is the reality of it. This is backed by pharma,
by the pharmaceutical industry because they want to use it to undermine
every effort the Democrats have made to try to bring down costs for
prescription drugs in the Medicare market, in the Medicaid market, in
Veterans Affairs, and on down the list.
I am deeply concerned that the ambiguity in the bill text would be a
prime target for litigation by the pharmaceutical industry, an industry
that has already shown a willingness to sue to keep outrageously high
prescription drug prices in place.
We know that Big Pharma is already using similar tactics to try to
fight the implementation of the Medicare drug price negotiation program
enacted by the Inflation Reduction Act. This bill could give them yet
another point of entry to undermine Medicare's ongoing work to
negotiate prescription drug prices.
Now, in addition, the Congressional Budget Office agreed that this
legislation will hinder the ability of our Federal health programs to
lower costs. CBO estimates that this bill will increase spending for
prescription drugs in Medicare, Medicaid, and other Federal health
programs, including the Department of Defense and Veterans Affairs'
health programs by $1.1 billion in the next 10 years, and potentially
tens of billions in the years that follow.
So because of the fact that this bill raises prices for the Federal
Government, increases costs for prescription drugs, the Republicans had
to put a pay-for in the bill.
The Republican bill before us today would gut the Affordable Care
Act's Prevention and Public Health Fund in order to pay this $1.1
billion for the legislation. It has long been the goal of Republicans
to decimate the ACA's essential funding stream to lower healthcare
costs through prevention. This funding in the prevention fund goes to
our State and local partners to improve public health and prevent
chronic diseases.
The prevention fund encourages smoking cessation, prevents childhood
lead poisoning, and enhances infectious disease control.
This fund plays a critical role in our efforts to help the American
people live healthier lives. House Republicans' decision to cut the
prevention fund in order to throw more money at their Big Pharma
friends makes it clear that they are not interested in reaching
consensus or finding a bipartisan solution.
Instead, they would rather jam through a partisan bill that would
hurt the very communities that they claim to be helping.
Mr. Chair, this bill is nothing more than a giveaway to Big Pharma at
the expense of the American people and our Nation's public health. I
strongly oppose the bill and urge my colleagues to oppose it, as well.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as
I may consume.
The reasons that the ranking member says to oppose the bill, they do
not match what the bill actually says.
Current law already prohibits the use of QALYs and other similar
measures in Medicare. Current law reads: ``The Secretary shall not
utilize such an adjusted life year or (such a similar measure) as a
threshold to determine coverage. . . . ''
I am not sure why all of a sudden we have this concern about other
measures. All the bill would do is apply current Medicare law to other
Federal payers, and if people are insistent that other measures are not
discriminatory, then they should have no problem in using them.
I will also point out to anyone who may be listening, according to
CBO's cost estimate: ``CBO does not expect that enacting H.R. 485 would
affect the prices that result from negotiations between the Secretary
and drug manufacturers.''
I don't support this capping or government price fixing of drugs. I
don't support it. I would like to see us work together to reduce the
cost of drugs, but this bill, according to CBO, does not expect that
H.R. 485 would affect the prices that result from negotiations between
the Secretary and drug manufacturers.
Don't get distracted from the underlying bill here.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Kentucky (Mr.
Guthrie).
{time}  0930
Mr. GUTHRIE. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong support of H.R. 485, the
Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act led by Energy and Commerce
Committee Chair Rodgers. This bill would permanently ban the use of
quality-adjusted life years or similar measures under any Federal
healthcare program.
Quality-adjusted life years. Think of that term. Should an academic
or Washington bureaucrat be able to say some people are more valuable
than others, that vulnerable populations like those with disabilities
don't deserve the same access to treatment as others?
Individuals with disabilities, chronic conditions, and others to whom
quality-adjusted life years or similar measures may discriminate
against, deserve the chance to choose which treatments they access
without a Washington bureaucrat or an academic with no clinical
experience making the decision for them.
I support this legislation. I appreciate the chair for bringing it
forward and sharing her personal story of why this is important. We all
know and love Cole. I didn't know he wanted to be a race car driver. I
think I did at 16, as well. He is a wonderful young man, and he
represents a great group of people who don't deserve to be
discriminated against.
Mr. Chair, I support this legislation and urge my colleagues to do
so.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. Eshoo), the ranking member of the Health Subcommittee.
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Chair, I rise, sadly, in opposition to this bill, H.R.
485.
I support, and everyone here supports, banning quality-adjusted life
years, also known as QALYs. It is a discriminatory metric that should
not be used, and Democrats are the ones who recognized this in 2010
when we banned Medicare's use of QALYs in the Affordable Care Act.
[[Page H511]]
If this bill simply banned QALYs, it would pass the House, the
Senate, and become law. It would become law quickly. However, the
problem is that the legislation bans QALYs and ``similar measures.'' I
have repeatedly said that this vague ``similar measures'' phrase is a
problem, including during the hearing and the markup of the bill.
This overly broad ``similar measures'' phrase weakens the Federal
Government's ability to negotiate drug prices by ruling out any type of
comparative effectiveness. Without this analysis, CBO found that States
and the Federal Government would have less leverage for drug discounts.
The CBO estimates that this ``similar measures'' phrase will raise
Federal costs in Medicaid by nearly half a billion dollars--that is
with a b--and by nearly a quarter of a billion dollars in TRICARE and
the VA. It also means out-of-pocket costs will rise for veterans and
Federal workers, and State budgets will be hit by higher Medicaid
spending.
Mr. Chair, I have tried everything I could to fix this legislation. I
voted ``present'' in the markup to continue bipartisan negotiations and
met with the chairwoman about changing the language, but the bill
before us today is the same bill that passed out of committee. It adds
insult to injury because the Republicans are using the Affordable Care
Act Public Health Prevention Fund to pay for it. Over 170 patient and
public health groups oppose using this fund as an offset.
My Republican colleagues have said they wish the legislation could be
bipartisan, but their actions say otherwise. This bill has only five
cosponsors, all Republicans, no Democrats. It has a poisonous pay-for,
and the Veterans' Affairs and Armed Services Committees never heard the
bill despite its major impact on the VA and TRICARE.
This is, in my view, a partisan bill that needlessly cuts public
health to increase drug spending, and that is why I urge my colleagues
to vote against it.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chairman, this bill should be
bipartisan. This legislation before us today takes the language that
the Democrats put into the Affordable Care Act, and again I will quote
it: ``The Secretary shall not utilize such an adjusted life year (or
such a similar measure) as a threshold to determine coverage. . . .''
We take that language from Medicare inserted by the Democrats in the
Affordable Care Act, and we apply it to all Federal payers. It should
be bipartisan.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Florida (Mr.
Bilirakis).
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of H.R. 485, the
Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act, which would ban the use of
the quality-adjusted life years metric in our Federal health programs.
I thank Chair Rodgers for her leadership on this issue and her
staunch advocacy for American patients, no matter their background. The
use of QALYs when determining coverage and payment policies in
healthcare at its core devalues the lives of patients with disabilities
and chronic conditions.
As co-chair of the Rare Disease Caucus, I am concerned about how the
use of QALY metric impacts payment decisions for chronic rare disorder
patients, potentially making it more difficult for them to get access
to lifesaving treatments. We can't have that.
I am also concerned about how this metric could be used by
bureaucrats to make decisions that discriminate against our Nation's
disabled veterans, our heroes. These lives have value and should not be
discriminated against when determining the cost-effectiveness of
treatments, plain and simple.
Pricing measurements and discriminatory methodologies such as QALYs
have been condemned by the National Council on Disability. Even the
Affordable Care Act contained a narrow ban of this metric, and I guess
into Medicare, and I am disappointed that the Democrats have decided to
turn their back on individuals with preexisting conditions like they
have here today.
Let's ban this metric and support H.R. 485, which has been endorsed
by the National Down Syndrome Society. Disability Rights Education &
Defense Fund, and more than 100 other disability and patient advocacy
groups. That speaks volumes, as far as I am concerned. I thank the
chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee for putting this forward,
and let's pass it today.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
California (Mr. Takano), the ranking member of the Veterans' Affairs
Committee.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 485,
the so-called Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act of 2023.
I have to say that it is a bit rich to hear my colleague talk about
preexisting conditions and their party's concern for it when he has
been part of the party that has been completely opposed to protecting
people with preexisting conditions because they have repeatedly, over
and over, tried to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
The bill before us today does almost nothing to protect healthcare
for patients and, instead, would likely increase healthcare costs
across the board.
As the ranking member of the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, I am
especially alarmed at the impact this bill would potentially have on
our veterans' care, and I have to say I wonder why this bill was not
referred also to the Veterans' Affairs Committee, given its impact on
this jurisdiction.
Under current law, multiple Federal programs like VA's have special
pricing arrangements for prescription drugs that rely on up-front
discounts and rebates. It is a win-win system for both taxpayers and
veterans.
The VA keeps costs lower and is able to make sure veterans get access
to the drugs they need. In fact, I would daresay the Department of
Veterans Affairs has the most robust negotiations over the drugs on its
formulary. However, this bill would upend this proven system and
instead inject uncertainty into drug pricing.
That chaos has a very real cost for VA and DOD: $240 million for the
2023-2033 time period, according to the CBO. ``Other similar measures''
simply does seem to have a measurable effect for CBO, those words,
``other similar measures.'' This will diminish VA's ability to deliver
care to veterans and force the Department to make cuts to services
elsewhere.
Consequently, that begs the question, who benefits from this
disarray? Big Pharma does. They reap the rewards and push up their
profits. I have to say, their lobbyists will really have earned their
outrageously large paycheck if this bill passes because it is so
clearly a rip-off. Taxpayers and veterans lose, while Big Pharma wins?
Give me a break.
However, House Democrats are opposed to this blatant rip-off and will
fight it tooth and nail. Instead of doing Big Pharma's bidding, we are
focused on lowering drug prices for Americans. House Democrats are
proud to have worked with the Biden administration to deliver on
capping the cost of insulin at $35 per month for seniors, finally
allowing Medicare to negotiate lower prescription drug prices, and
requiring drug companies to pay rebates to Medicare if they raise
prices faster than inflation.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Luttrell). The time of the gentleman has
expired.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I yield an additional 1 minute to the
gentleman from California.
Mr. TAKANO. Let me add, Democrats have also locked in $800 per year
in health insurance savings for 15 million Americans.
Members should ask themselves who has more credibility on protecting
Americans' healthcare and saving them money and lowering costs. I would
submit the Democrats do.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill. It will cost
taxpayers money, it will cost the VA more money, and just give more
profits to Big Pharma.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. Carter).
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Chair, if you go to the VA's website, they
have an entire page devoted to QALYs where they say outright, to date
the quality-adjusted life year is the preferred metric for estimating
health effects. There is a perfect example of what we are talking about
right there on the VA website.
Mr. Chairman, I had surgery December 28, and I have been on this
scooter ever since. It really does give you a different perspective for
people with disabilities. For me, it is temporary, but
[[Page H512]]
it has made me realize that people with disabilities, people with
certain health challenges, it is not temporary for them. They deal with
this all the time.
Are they any less of a person than I am or than you are? No.
That is what we are trying to say here. They deserve the same
treatment as anyone else does.
I am in strong support of this Protecting Health Care for All
Patients Act because it will expand access to lifesaving treatments and
prevent discrimination against Americans with disabilities.
The way that we come up from the Rayburn Building up to the second
floor, to the House Chamber, well, you know those escalators are broken
right now. The other day, I am coming up, trying to make it to a vote.
Both escalators are broken. I tried to get on the elevator, and someone
has changed the elevator to where you have to have a badge to get on
it. If there had not been someone who came by with a badge, I would
still be sitting there right now.
{time}  0945
This is serious. This is what we are talking about. These are real
people. This is good legislation, and I thank the gentlewoman for
bringing this. I support this, and I hope you will, too.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Mrs. Fletcher), a member of our Energy and Commerce Committee.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to H.R. 485, the so-
called Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act of 2023.
This legislation harms the very people it says it protects, increases
prescription drug costs, and decimates funding for essential public
health programs.
Last Congress, Democrats passed the Inflation Reduction Act, landmark
legislation that gives the Secretary of Health and Human Services the
power to negotiate drug prices for Medicare. This critical step is
estimated to lower drug prices by at least 25 percent, saving seniors
and taxpayers tens of billions of dollars and ensuring that people with
Medicare get better, fairer prices for prescription drugs.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that this
provision in the IRA alone will save the government $100 billion over
the next 10 years. In contrast, the CBO estimates that the bill before
us today would not only increase drug prices across Federal health
programs, but it would also increase Federal spending by $1.1 billion
over the next 10 years by eliminating important tools to manage drug
prices. Without effective tools to determine the value of a drug, the
government is at a disadvantage, and the taxpayers pay the higher
price.
We know that 8 in 10 adults in the United States today say that the
cost of prescription drugs is too high, and we know that 3 in 10 say
that they don't take all of their prescriptions as prescribed because
they can't afford them. It is simply unacceptable.
It is unacceptable that Americans struggle so much to pay for the
lifesaving and critical drugs that they need to ensure their quality of
life.
Just last week, the Biden administration announced that it had sent
initial offers to participating drug companies for the first 10 drugs
selected for price negotiation, a milestone in implementing the IRA.
These 10 drugs alone cost seniors $3.4 billion in out-of-pocket costs.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Texas.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Chair, let me repeat that: These 10 drugs alone
cost seniors $3.4 billion in out-of-pocket costs in 2022.
While Democrats and President Biden are fighting for lower drug
costs, House Republicans want to stop negotiations altogether.
Democrats are delivering, and we will continue to work to lower
prescription drug prices for seniors and families across our country,
but this bill does not do that.
For this reason, at the appropriate time, I will offer a motion to
recommit this bill back to committee. If the House rules permitted, I
would have offered this motion with an important amendment to the bill
to prevent this bill from taking effect until the Secretaries of HHS,
Defense, and Veterans Affairs, as well as the Director of the Office of
Personnel Management, certify that it will not result in an increase in
prescription drug prices or an increase in patient costs in the United
States.
Mr. Chair, I include in the Record the text of my amendment.
Mrs. Fletcher moves to recommit the bill H.R. 485 to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce with instructions to report
the same back to the House forthwith, with the following
amendment:
Add at the end the following new section:
SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE.
The amendments made by this Act shall not take effect until
the Secretaries of Health and Human Services, Defense, and
Veterans Affairs, and the Director of the Office of Personnel
Management certify that such amendments will not result in an
increase in prescription drug prices or an increase in
patient costs in the United States.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chairman, if this legislation harms
people who we are intending to help, why do we have support letters
from nearly 200 disability patient advocate groups across the political
spectrum? Down Syndrome Society, Autism Speaks, Disability Law Center,
and ARC all support this bill.
If the Democrats want to suggest that they are committed to lowering
the cost of prescription drugs and that the reason to oppose this bill
is because it is going to increase costs, the only reason this bill
would increase costs is if you are denying care to people who have
disabilities. That is the only reason. You are discriminating against
people. That is the only reason this bill would cost any money.
CBO already estimates that this bill is going to cost $1.1 billion.
Why is that? Why would this legislation cost $1.1 billion? Because CBO
is forecasting that there are going to be discriminatory measures used
against individuals, and we are going to ban that. We are going to make
sure that doesn't happen.
Mr. Chair, I am pleased to yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. Joyce).
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding, and I specifically thank Chair McMorris Rodgers for her
incredible work on this vital legislation.
As America continues to lead the way in research, development, and
innovation of new therapies and medical devices, it is vital that these
cures are available to the Americans who need them the most.
That is why today we are taking action to expand healthcare options
to more patients than ever before by banning the use of quality-
adjusted life years in all Federal programs.
More than 55,000 veterans live in Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional
District, many of whom were injured or disabled while serving in
uniform for our country. For years, I cared for patients at the Van
Zandt VA Medical Center in Blair County. This legislation will provide
more protection for disabled veterans.
By passing the Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act, we can
ensure that institutions like the VA will never again use QALY formulas
to determine if a disabled veteran should receive the treatment that
they need, should receive the treatment that they deserve.
It is time to ensure that patients are protected and receiving the
best quality care. All Americans, all patients, deserve that.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this legislation.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Republicans are pointing to the Congressional Budget Office's score
of their bill as proof that healthcare programs are already using the
QALY to discriminate against people, but that is simply not what the
CBO score says.
It is ironic Republicans would point to CBO's analysis, given it
highlights my exact concern that this bill's reference to other
``similar measures'' is ambiguous and undermines drug price
negotiations.
It is precisely this uncertainty that would result in a chilling
effect on States and Federal agencies being willing to look at the cost
of prescription drugs.
Again, I take no issue with banning QALYs, and I offered an amendment
in committee to ban QALYs when this
[[Page H513]]
bill was marked up, but that is not what this is about.
This is an effort by the Republicans to back up pharma and make sure
that we don't look at cost measures; that we don't negotiate prices,
which they oppose in Medicare; and that we simply let the
pharmaceutical companies charge whatever they want.
Imagine what it would be like if the pharmaceutical companies could
charge whatever they want. Not only would it cost another $1.1 billion,
which is what the CBO says, but it could undermine any efforts to lower
the cost of prescription drugs throughout any Federal and State
programs.
What does that mean? What does that mean for people? How would we
continue to fund programs for seniors, for the disabled, for anyone if
we cannot adjust the cost issue and keep costs down for prescription
drugs?
There is no effort here on the Democrats' part to continue with
QALYs. We are opposed to them, but you have to continue to be able to
look at costs in a nondiscriminatory way.
That is what is not going to happen if this bill becomes law. There
will not be any way or any effective way for any Federal, State, or
local agencies to look at cost measures, and costs will continue to
skyrocket, exactly what pharma wants.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chair, I am pleased to yield 1\1/2\
minutes to the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Pence).
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Chair, I thank Chairwoman Rodgers for yielding time.
I am proud to support the Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act
championed by my good friend and a true leader, Chairwoman Rodgers.
We need to recognize and affirm that every life is precious and a
gift from God. It is unconscionable that healthcare payers use quality-
adjusted life years as a measurement to determine if treatment options
for patients are cost-effective.
Federal healthcare programs should provide patients with the best
care available, regardless of preexisting conditions and those
suffering with disabilities.
It is important we find fiscally and ethically responsible solutions
to reduce healthcare costs in this country without devaluing the
sanctity of life.
Mr. Chair, I urge support for final passage.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chair, I am pleased to yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Tennessee (Mrs. Harshbarger).
Mrs. HARSHBARGER. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong support of Chair
Rodgers' Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act, which addresses
the Federal Government's discriminatory practices toward disabled and
chronically ill patients through the use of quality-adjusted life
years.
Quality-adjusted life years are used by bureaucrats and healthcare
administrators to assign a numerical value to an individual's life,
which is then used to make coverage decisions for medical treatments
and services.
Current law already largely prevents the Department of Health and
Human Services from using this metric in Medicare ``in a manner that
treats extending the life of an elderly, disabled, or terminally ill
individual as of lower value.'' This discriminatory metric has even
been proposed to be used by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services.
The bottom line is this: The Federal Government should not play a
role in determining the value of a patient's life.
As a pharmacist for over 30 years, I understand that ensuring
patients with disabilities and chronic illnesses have continued access
to quality care is of utmost performance.
The Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act will ban the use of
quality-adjusted life years in Federal healthcare programs, expanding
access to healthcare for Americans and protecting patients across the
country.
As a healthcare provider, we take an oath to first do no harm. Mr.
Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this landmark legislation led by
Chair McMorris Rodgers and put the interests of patients first.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I am pleased to yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Iowa (Mrs. Miller-Meeks)
Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of H.R. 485,
the Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act.
Quality-adjusted life years, or QALYs, are a metric used to assign a
dollar value on someone's life and ration healthcare treatments
accordingly, often discriminating against those with disabilities.
This isn't the first time we have heard this. I remember a former
President, in advocating for the Affordable Care Act, said if someone
has a broken hip, and they are elderly, they are just going to have to
deal with it.
Current law prevents the Secretary of Health and Human Services from
using QALYs in Medicare specifically in a manner that treats extending
the life of an elderly, disabled, or terminally ill individual as of
lower value.
This legislation simply extends the QALYs prohibition to other
Federal healthcare programs not included under current law.
As a doctor, it is outrageous for government bureaucrats to determine
whether a person's life is worth saving.
It is interesting to hear the other side of the aisle concerned about
cost after advancing the Affordable Care Act when they knew it would
lead to increased costs, increased premiums, which it has done, and
patients losing their doctors and their healthcare plans.
If my colleagues are concerned about veterans' affairs, I happen to
be the chair of the Health Subcommittee of the Committee on Veterans'
Affairs. We can introduce this there, as well.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.
{time}  1000
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Florida (Mrs. Cammack).
Mrs. CAMMACK. Mr. Chairman, I thank my good friend and colleague,
Representative McMorris Rodgers for yielding.
Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of H.R. 485, the Protecting Health
Care for all Patients Act. This bill, led by Chairwoman Rodgers, would
prohibit all Federal healthcare programs from using quality-adjusted
life years, or as you may hear them called, QALYs, as criteria to
determine coverage for often life-altering treatments for patients.
Quality-adjusted life years are measures that discount the value of a
life based on disability, age, or terminal illness, and are currently
used by all Federal healthcare payers, except for Medicare.
Put plainly, programs like Medicaid and the Department of Veterans
Affairs allow unelected, nameless, faceless bureaucrats to put a dollar
value on the life of a patient to determine whether the treatment is
cost-effective or not. In doing so, these programs and agencies
discount an individual's worth and need for medical care based upon
their disability status and whether they have a chronic illness.
Ultimately, the use of QALYs amounts to discrimination, something
that is all too common in our healthcare system. Patients with
disabilities, for instance, are often denied the ability to receive
lifesaving organ transplants.
As the sponsor of the Charlotte Woodward Organ Transplant
Discrimination Prevention Act, I personally and firmly believe that
patients with disabilities and other chronic conditions should receive
equal treatment, whether it is for an organ transplant or coverage of
essential medicines.
I applaud Chairwoman Rodgers' efforts to protect the lives of all
patients, and I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.
No bureaucrat should be able to coldly determine the life and value
of a patient.
This bill that we have an opportunity to vote on today is a huge step
forward in fighting discrimination within our healthcare system.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
[[Page H514]]
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire as to how
much time is remaining on each side.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Washington has 8 minutes
remaining. The gentleman from New Jersey has 13 minutes remaining.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Ohio, (Mr. Wenstrup).
Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Chairman, I rise here today in support of H.R. 485,
the Protecting Health Care for all Patients Act, and I thank Chairwoman
McMorris Rodgers for bringing this important legislation forward.
I am a physician who is proud to join my colleagues in leading this
bill that bans the use of quality-adjusted life years, QALYs, as it is
called, in all Federal programs.
As a physician I took an oath, determined to treat each patient as a
human being first and foremost. Quality metrics intentionally devalue
treatments for disabled and chronically ill patients in determining
whether a treatment is cost-effective. In other words, telling the
patient, you are not worth it.
The bottom line is this: These cost measurements put an artificial
dollar value on a person's life, valuing the lives of Americans
differently.
In doing so, QALYs interferes with the sacred duty of a physician to
care for all patients equally. Treating all patients equally and with a
personal touch is something that I have always taken great pride in.
Our healthcare system must value all lives and ensure every person is
treated with dignity. Our government should never deny healthcare to
all Americans based on how much a life is perceived to be worth. This
is a check on our morality. This is a check on our values. We should
value human life and work towards healthier human lives, not devalue
human life nor indignify one another.
Mr. Chair, I urge all my colleagues to join me in blocking government
bureaucrats from putting an arbitrary price tag on the life of every
American--bureaucrats that will never meet you or take responsibility
for your care.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, there is no doubt that the pharmaceutical industry
would like to see the gains we have made to lower drug prices through
the Inflation Reduction Act halted or reversed. That is why they have
brought numerous Federal lawsuits against the law in courts throughout
the country, even as the Department of Health and Human Services just
announced opening offers for the first 10 drugs selected for
negotiation to bring down costs.
This bill would simply provide a new avenue for the pharmaceutical
industry to pursue litigation intended to hamper the IRA and the
negotiation program overall, and it doesn't stop there. It could strip
States of one of the only tools that they have to negotiate Medicaid
drug rebates.
Now, while proponents of this legislation would have you believe that
this bill just extends current law, unfortunately, that is not the
case. It expands and changes current law. It applies the language from
the Inflation Reduction Act in a new context and broadens its
applicability to ban the use of other similar measures across the
Federal Government, and that means limiting the ability to look at
costs. If we don't have the ability to compare drugs and see which ones
are effective and which ones cost more, then we won't have the ability
to lower costs. What that means is we allow pharma to charge whatever
they want.
The CBO says this is going to cost another $1.1 billion, which is why
the Republicans seek to cut the Prevention and Public Health Fund to
pay for it. But this is going to lead us down the path of saying that
we can't look at cost at all. That means that costs will balloon for
Medicare, for Medicaid, and for prescription drugs. The consequence of
that is you can't pay for other programs that help seniors, that help
poor people, that help veterans, that help those in the military with
their health and the quality of their health.
This is a very dangerous piece of legislation, and Democrats are
speaking out against it because of the consequences and our ability to
fund health programs around the country at every level.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Stauber).
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of the Protecting
Health Care for all Patients Act of 2023 led by Chairwoman Rodgers.
I rise today not only as a Congressman, Mr. Chair, but as a father to
a 21-year-old man with Down syndrome, a young man who has never been
defined by his disability, but rather, his ability. The use of quality-
adjusted life years is disgusting.
Mr. Chair, it is disgusting. Using a cost benefit analysis to
determine if someone deserves healthcare, if their life has value, is
just plain wrong, Mr. Chair.
This is the result of socialized healthcare medicine, the future that
the Democrats want. It is a future where a doctor will turn you away
because your treatment just doesn't make economic sense.
This is called rationalized healthcare, Mr. Chair, meaning the
government will determine if your life is worth living. The bureaucrats
in Washington, D.C., will determine if the lives of senior citizens in
northern Minnesota should be saved and healthcare provided to them.
I thank Chairwoman Rodgers for introducing this bill, which prevents
the Federal healthcare programs from deciding the future of not only my
son but all the children in this country that have a disability--from
deciding if their life is valuable in comparison to others.
This bill is a beacon of hope for families like mine and the hundreds
of thousands across this great Nation who are blessed to have children
living with Down syndrome and other disabilities that enrich our
communities. It is a promise that we will not stand idly by while our
most vulnerable citizens are viewed as less than in a broken healthcare
system.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Perry). The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 1 minute
to the gentleman from Minnesota.
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Chair, this bill ensures that individuals with
disabilities, the elderly, our veterans, and the terminally ill are
protected from discrimination and have access to affordable,
comprehensive healthcare.
Let me tell you something. I am a spouse of an Iraq war veteran, and
if you look on the Department of Veterans Affairs' site, Mr. Chair,
they have quality-adjusted life years for our veterans. Since when do
we determine the life of a veteran who signed up to give his or her
life for this Nation, Mr. Chair?
The Democrats want to take it away, quality-adjusted life years. It
is sad.
We are fighting for our elderly, the veterans, and our disabled
community. For the bureaucrats to tell me or tell any of us whether a
life is worth living or not is unconscionable, and we will not stand
for it.
Mr. Chair, I thank the gentlewoman for bringing this bill to the
floor, and I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, the Republicans' decision to offset this bill by
raiding the Prevention and Public Health Fund underscores the real
intentions. They are not seeking to improve the lives of those with
disabilities or end the use of discriminatory measures, but to push
forward with a partisan bill that will raise prices and cut critical
funding used to improve public health.
The Prevention and Public Health Fund was established in the
Affordable Care Act to provide for expanded and sustained national
investment in health prevention and restrain the rate of growth in
healthcare costs. Republicans have consistently sought to undermine,
slash, and redirect these essential funds for unintended purposes.
Cutting the Prevention and Public Health Fund decimates our ability
to effectively prepare for the next pandemic, respond to ongoing public
health threats, and puts our States and local healthcare partners at a
disadvantage moving forward.
[[Page H515]]
Nearly 200 public health organizations sent a letter earlier this
week expressing strong concerns with the manager's amendment, noting
how detrimental cuts to the Prevention and Public Health Fund would be.
It is the height of irony that Republicans claim this bill would
reduce discrimination for those with disabilities, while also cutting
Federal investment in programs that improve the lives of those with
disabilities.
The American people deserve better.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I am prepared to close, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my time to
close.
Mr. Chairman, I feel very strongly about why we need to oppose this
bill, and I urge my colleagues to oppose it.
Democrats, and, hopefully, some Republicans, too, have spent a lot of
time trying to reduce the cost of prescription drugs--and the States,
as well. The bottom line is that we know that prescription drugs
now are, if not the majority, a significant portion of healthcare
costs.
If the Federal Government or the State government, or any government,
is going to continue to provide quality care in this country, we must
rein in the cost of prescription drugs, not only the cost but also have
our agencies determine what drugs are effective and what drugs are not.
We have no problem as Democrats in banning QALYs.
I have said that over and over again today, and I will keep repeating
it. The bottom line is the way the language of this bill is
constructed, it could easily lead to a situation where no Federal,
State or government agency could effectively look at whether or not a
drug is effective and what the cost is or make any decisions to pay for
it based on the actual costs.
Now, sure, we could live in a world where the government pays
unlimited amounts of money for everything--and I am sure pharma would
love that because they like to charge whatever they want to increase
their profits--but that is not a real situation. If you don't rein in
the cost of prescription drugs, it not only is going to cost more for
individuals out of their pocket, but it also means that the government
can't provide services to people with disabilities or to seniors or to
veterans.
That is why the CBO was saying that this bill is going to cost
another $1.1 billion, at a minimum, and possibly even more in the
future, if you read what the CBO has actually said.
Republicans have a pay-for rule, so they say that if it is going to
cost more, they have to pay for it in some way.
Well, how do they pay for it?
They cut the Prevention and Public Health Fund, the very fund that is
used to prevent worse diseases, worse outbreaks, fund local public
health programs so they can deal with public health in an effective
way.
How is that beneficial to people with disabilities or anyone? It
certainly isn't.
That is why there is so much opposition by various public health
agencies to cutting this prevention fund to pay for this bill.
{time}  1015
There is no justification for this bill. There was an opportunity in
the Energy and Commerce Committee. I submitted language that would say
not only would we ban QALYs, but we would ban any kind of
discriminatory measures being used. The Republicans wouldn't accept
that. This is what we are left with, a bill that is very dangerous,
that is just a giveaway to pharma.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to oppose what I consider rather
dangerous legislation, and I yield back the balance of my time.
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington. Mr. Chair, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
We have worked together on important legislation to lower costs,
provide more transparency, bipartisan legislation from the Committee on
Energy and Commerce. I am quite disappointed today that my colleagues
on the other side of the aisle have refused to come to the table on
this one.
We just heard that there is no justification for this legislation.
The ranking member actually said it is dangerous. Let me just point out
again, nearly 200 advocacy groups, spanning the political spectrum, are
calling on Congress to prohibit the use of QALYs and other
discriminatory measures, perhaps because they see the VA's website
today. Go to the VA's website and you will read, to date, the quality-
adjusted life year, QALY, is the preferred metric for estimating health
effect.
We have also heard that this bill is a big giveaway, a blank check,
to pharma. Republicans agree, we must lower the cost of prescription
drugs, and we have worked on it. Discriminatory action, discriminatory
metrics against people with disabilities and chronic illnesses is not
the way to do it.
We have heard today that the offset is a partisan pill. Let me just
highlight that Senator Sanders is using the prevention fund. Senator
Sanders is proposing right now to use the prevention fund to offset
increased funding for community health centers. The Senate passed this
provision 90-6. It is disappointing that now this is an issue of
offsetting costs of no longer discriminating against those with
disabilities.
Yes, we have to offset the cost of no longer discriminating against
those with disabilities. That is why there is even a CBO score on this
bill.
I also note that ``similar measures,'' which seems to be an issue
today with my colleagues across the aisle, are current law for
Medicare. We are simply expanding that same language in Medicare to
other Federal health programs. Why have different standards?
Mr. Chair, this should be the law of the land. This legislation is
important. Those with disabilities and the advocacy groups are asking
for Congress to take action. We have addressed the issues in the
underlying bill.
Mr. Chair, I urge support. I hope today that we can come together,
Republicans and Democrats, as Americans, to protect the healthcare and
the access to healthcare for every individual with disabilities and
chronic illnesses. As I mentioned, we are all just one car accident or
diagnosis away from being that person. Vote ``yes.''
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. McCollum. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to H.R. 485, the so-
called Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act.
The truth is this bill fails to protect health care for all patients.
Instead, this bill undermines the Affordable Care Act by stripping
funds from the Prevention and Public Health Fund, our nation's first
mandatory funding system dedicated to improving our nation's public
health system and lowering public health care costs. This critical
funding has helped the Centers for Disease Control reduce the leading
causes of death and disability nationwide and support early detection
of and response to public health threats.
This legislation is a step in the wrong direction. If passed, this
bill would make it more difficult to improve the affordability of
prescription drugs. House Republicans claim that this bill will help
prevent discriminatory policies because it prohibits Medicaid, Medicare
Advantage (MA) plans, Medicare Part D Plans (PDPs), the VA, and the
Defense Health Agency from using Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs).
The truth is federal law already prohibits Medicare from using QALYs in
its coverage determinations, and state Medicare plans are required by
law to cover all drugs.
If House Republicans were serious about ensuring all Americans have
access to affordable, comprehensive health care treatments, they would
have supported clarifying amendments to this bill that would ban
discriminatory practices. Instead, we are presented with another bill
that does not address the problem and does not put the interests of
patients and taxpayers first.
The Acting CHAIR. All time for general debate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be considered for amendment
under the 5-minute rule.
The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, printed in the bill, modified by the
amendment printed in part A of House Report 118-374, shall be
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as the
original bill for the purpose of further amendment and shall be
considered as read.
H.R. 485
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ``Protecting Health Care for
All Patients Act of 2023''.
[[Page H516]]
SEC. 2. PROHIBITING THE USE OF QUALITY-ADJUSTED LIFE YEARS
AND SIMILAR MEASURES IN COVERAGE AND PAYMENT
DETERMINATIONS UNDER FEDERAL HEALTH CARE
PROGRAMS.
(a) In General.--Section 1182(e) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1320e-1(e)) is amended--
(1) by inserting ``or treats extending the life of an
elderly, disabled, or terminally ill individual as of lower
value than extending the life of an individual who is
younger, non-disabled, or not terminally ill'' after
``because of an individual's disability'';
(2) by inserting ``described in the preceding sentence''
after ``such a similar measure'';
(3) by striking ``The Secretary shall not'' and inserting
``A Federal agency (including the CMI (as described in
section 1115A)) or State may not'';
(4) by striking ``under title XVIII.'' and inserting the
following: ``under any Federal health care program (as
defined in section 1128B, except that such term shall include
the health program established under chapter 89 of title 5,
United States Code).''; and
(5) by adding at the end the following new sentence:
``Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a Federal
agency (including the CMI) or State may not waive the
application of the provisions of this subsection (or the
provisions of section 1852(o), section 1860D-12(h), section
1902(a)(88), section 1932(b)(9), or section 2102(e)) under
section 1115, section 1115A, or any other demonstration or
waiver authority.''.
(b) Conforming Amendments.--
(1) Medicaid.--
(A) In general.--Section 1902(a) of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)) is amended--
(i) in paragraph (86), by striking ``and'' at the end;
(ii) in paragraph (87)(D), by striking the period and
inserting ``; and''; and
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (87) the following new
paragraph:
``(88) provide for compliance with the requirements of
section 1182(e) (relating to prohibiting the use of certain
measures in coverage determinations, reimbursement, and
incentive programs).''.
(B) Managed care organizations.--Section 1932(b) of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396u-2(b)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
``(9) Prohibition on use of quality-adjusted life years.--
The provisions of section 1182(e) shall apply to the
utilization of a dollars-per-quality adjusted life year or
similar measure (as described in such section) by a medicaid
managed care organization under this title (or a prepaid
inpatient health plan or prepaid ambulatory health plan, as
defined in section 438.2 of title 42, Code of Federal
Regulations (or any successor regulation), under a contract
with the State) in the same manner as such provisions apply
to the utilization of such a year or measure by a State under
this title.''.
(2) CHIP.--Section 2102 of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1397bb) is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
``(e) Prohibition on the Use of Quality-Adjusted Life Years
and Similar Measures.--A State child health plan shall
provide for compliance with the requirements of section
1182(e) (relating to prohibiting the use of certain measures
in coverage determinations, reimbursement, and incentive
programs).''.
(3) Medicare advantage.--Section 1852 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-22) is amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
``(o) Prohibition on Use of Quality-adjusted Life Years.--
The provisions of section 1182(e) shall apply to the
utilization of a dollars-per-quality adjusted life year or
similar measure (as described in such section) by an MA plan
in the same manner as such provisions apply to the
utilization of such a year or measure by the Secretary under
this title.''.
(4) Medicare part d.--Section 1860D-12 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-112) is amended by adding at
the end the following new subsection:
``(h) Prohibition on Use of Quality-adjusted Life Years.--
The provisions of section 1182(e) shall apply to the
utilization of a dollars-per-quality adjusted life year or
similar measure (as described in such section) by a
prescription drug plan in the same manner as such provisions
apply to the utilization of such a year or measure by the
Secretary under this title.''.
(c) Implementation.--The amendments made by this section
shall apply beginning on January 1, 2025.
SEC. 3. PREVENTION AND PUBLIC HEALTH FUND.
Section 4002(b) of the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act (42 U.S.C. 300u-11) is amended by striking
paragraphs (7), (8), and (9) and inserting the following:
``(7) for each of fiscal years 2024 and 2025,
$1,102,000,000;
``(8) for each of fiscal years 2026 and 2027,
$1,327,000,000;
``(9) for each of fiscal years 2028 and 2029,
$1,526,000,000; and''.
The Acting CHAIR. No further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall
be in order except those printed in part B of House Report 118-374.
Each such further amendment may be offered only in the order printed in
the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report,
shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified
in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an
opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject
to a demand for division of the question.
Amendment No. 1 Offered by Mr. Molinaro
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 1
printed in part B of House Report 118-374.
Mr. MOLINARO. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Add at the end the following new section:
SEC. 3. REPORT.
Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of
this Act, and annually thereafter, the Comptroller General of
the United States shall submit to Congress a report on how
quality-adjusted life years negatively impacts individuals
with intellectual and developmental disabilities and their
access to care.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 996, the gentleman
from New York (Mr. Molinaro) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New York.
Mr. MOLINARO. Mr. Chair, I begin first by expressing my support for
the Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act and my appreciation to
the leadership of Chairwoman McMorris Rodgers.
This bill seeks to address a longstanding concern for the disability
community, a community that I have spent the better part of the last 20
years working in and among. It bans the use of quality-adjusted life
years, QALYs, measures from being used in Federal healthcare programs.
As we know, QALY measures have devalued the lives of disabled and
chronically ill patients when it comes to deciding if a certain
treatment is cost effective, putting a dollar sign on their lives and
barriers to accessing proper treatment.
You heard a moment ago my colleague across the aisle refer to the
bill in chief as dangerous. As the parent of a child living with
epilepsy and on the autism spectrum, I can tell you what is dangerous
is the way in which the healthcare system too often treats children and
adults like her. It is neither progressive nor compassionate to put a
dollar sign on the lives of those who need such life-affirming care.
The use of QALYs has put those with chronic illnesses and
disabilities, like epilepsy, ALS, and Down syndrome, at the back of the
line for treatment, too often denying them access and creating barriers
to the support they need. It undermines our commitment to life-
affirming care for our most vulnerable. No matter how it is expressed,
no matter how it is denied, this practice devalues the lives of
American citizens and loved ones like my own child.
My amendment seeks to provide additional oversight into the negative
impact QALYs have on those with intellectual, developmental, and
physical disabilities.
The amendment is simple. It directs the Comptroller General to submit
a report to Congress to thoroughly assess the damage QALYs have on our
IDD community and how this measure adversely affects their access to
lifesaving treatments and medical care. It is simple and meant to
provide additional oversight.
As noted, as the father of four children, one who lives on the autism
spectrum with a seizure disorder, and a staunch advocate for our
disability community, I again applaud Chairwoman McMorris Rodgers' work
on crafting the Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act to ensure
our most vulnerable populations have access to the medical treatments
and services to manage their conditions and lead longer, healthier, and
freer lives.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to adopt this amendment, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from New Jersey is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chair, I appreciate and respect the views of the
disability community and their strongly held belief that the use of
QALYs in Federal health programs is discriminatory. That is why I do
not oppose this amendment.
However, the amendment does not cure the problem with the underlying
bill. This bill is a Trojan horse that purports to ban discriminatory
measures like QALYs but in reality does a
[[Page H517]]
lot more. This bill has the potential to ban a broad swath of cost
containment measures that are not discriminatory and could harm the
very communities that this bill is purported to help.
Those with disabilities need access to lower drug prices and
healthcare services, and the Federal Government's and States' ability
to use nondiscriminatory health measures is essential to bringing down
costs. Otherwise, without leverage to get a better deal, we are stuck
paying whatever pharma wants. The CBO agrees. That is why they estimate
this bill will increase Federal spending by over a billion dollars in
the next 10 years and potentially tens of billions of dollars more in
the years ahead.
For this reason, I do not oppose the amendment, but, unfortunately,
it does not resolve my concerns with the underlying bill.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MOLINARO. Mr. Chair, I appreciate my colleague's support of the
amendment. I will close with addressing the ``yes, but'' argument.
Those who live with intellectual, physical, and developmental
disabilities and those who love them are quite familiar with the ``yes,
but'' argument. Yes, we care about you, but others face struggles, too.
Yes, we want you to have access, but others may have obstacles, too.
Yes, we care about your lives, but we care about others more.
That is the basis of the argument against this bill, ``yes, but.'' My
daughter has heard it every day of her life. I have experienced it
every day. Yes, we hope to educate her, but we don't have time for it.
Yes, we want to give you access to vaccines and care, but you are not
our priority. Yes, during COVID we wanted to ensure every life was
protected, but we didn't have the time to work it out for you.
This bill is not perfect. The chairwoman doesn't expect it to be, nor
do I. QALYs devalue the lives of Americans who have far too many
obstacles in their place.
My argument in response to the argument against this bill is ``yes,
but.'' Yes, kids like mine deserve access to quality care; yes, those
with disabilities deserve to have life-affirming services; and, yes,
those with disabilities face far too many obstacles to living and
pursuing a life of happiness; but we can take this one step.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chair, I yield the balance of my time to the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, I thank the distinguished gentleman for
yielding.
We want to rise and help all of the families, particularly those
families who every day are dealing with children and family members
with disabilities.
This is an instance where I say can we all get together and can we
try to find a resolution toward making sure that we have good
healthcare for these families and for these persons?
What I would offer is that presently this legislation undermines the
Affordable Care Act by stripping dollars from the Prevention and Public
Health Fund and undermining its critical investments in health and
well-being. It makes it very difficult to help those who need help. It
would stop funding from the Prevention and Public Health Fund, which
supports critical investments to help prevent disease.
At the same time, this legislation opens the possibility of limiting
the use of any value metrics when determining a drug price.
Furthermore, the Congressional Budget Office determined that this
bill would raise drug costs for Medicare, Medicaid, and the Department
of Defense. The CBO also estimates that this legislation would increase
costs for Veterans Affairs health programs, raising Federal spending on
prescription drugs by $1.115 billion over 10 years and billions more in
the following decades.
Americans are looking for answers, and they are looking for answers
for all persons who need healthcare. To pay for these increased costs,
there are plans to cut from the Prevention and Public Health Fund and
cutting programs to improve public health and to prevent chronic
diseases such as childhood lead poisoning and improving immunization
rates.
Democrats in Congress, along with the Biden-Harris administration,
are working to ensure all Americans have access to affordable care and
effective healthcare treatments. This bill claims to protect people
from discrimination. It would, in fact, result in harm to patients if
enacted into law.
{time}  1030
I believe that people with disabilities deserve equality, inclusion,
and access to all aspects of American life.
Instead of prioritizing legislation that could lower prices for them,
access value, and improve health, Republicans are attempting to pass
legislation that undermines the work that we have done over a 10-year
period to really include the disabled community.
If this bill is enacted, then the language referring to similar
measures in the current version of the bill would introduce ambiguity
across the health sector. It could invite lengthy lawsuits from an
industry eager to stop any efforts to constrain its ability to set
prices as high as it wants.
I simply want to say, as I started, can we all work together?
All aspects of our community need access to good healthcare--
certainly, our disabled community--and this does more to undermine
their access than to expand their access.
Mr. Chair, I ask my colleagues to send this back to the committee so
that we can find common ground and really serve the disabled community
and many others and not allow those who seek profit to overcome those
who seek good healthcare, including our seniors, our veterans, and many
aspects of our community that have chronic diseases.
Mr. Chair, I rise today to discuss the issue concerning H.R. 485, the
Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act.
The Protecting Health Care for All Patients Act of 2023 does not
protect health care for patients, but rather undermines our progress in
lowering prescription drug costs for American families.
This bill claims to prevent the federal government from using a
measure called the Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY).
This is a red herring, as the Inflation Reduction Act already
explicitly prohibits the use of QALYs.
The legislation goes further by banning the use of the QALY ``or such
a similar measure,'' across all federal health care programs, without
defining what such a similar measure could include.
A long-standing criticism of QALY has been that it would:
Discriminate against people in poor health.
Extending the lives of individuals with underlying health conditions
gains fewer QALYs than extending the lives of `healthier' individuals.
This blanket prohibition on the use of ``similar measures'' applied
across the federal government.
This legislation opens the possibility of limiting the use of any
value metrics when determining a drug's price.
Furthermore, the Congressional Budget Office determined that this
bill would raise drug costs in Medicare, Medicaid, the Department of
Defense (DoD).
CBO also estimates that this legislation would increase costs for
Veterans Affairs health programs, raising federal spending on
prescription drugs by $1.115 billion over 10 years and billions more in
the proceeding decades.
Americans are looking for Congress to lower drug prices further, not
increase them.
To pay for these increased costs, there are plans to cut from the
Prevention and Public Health Fund and cutting programs to improve
public health and prevent chronic diseases, such as childhood lead
poisoning, and improving immunization rates.
Democrats in Congress along with the Biden Harris Administration are
working to ensure all Americans have access to affordable and effective
health care treatments.
This bill claims to protect people from discrimination but would in
fact result in harm to patients if enacted into law.
I believe that people with disabilities deserve equality, inclusion,
and access in all aspects of American life.
Instead of prioritizing legislation that could lower prices, assess
value, and improve health Republicans are attempting to pass
legislation that undermines the work of Congress and the Biden
Administration.
If this bill is enacted the language referring to ``similar
measures'' in the current version of the bill would introduce ambiguity
across the health sector.
It could invite lengthy lawsuits from an industry eager to stop any
efforts to constrain its ability to set prices as high as it wants for
any drug--regardless of the drug's value.
[[Page H518]]
In closing, it is imperative that health care be made affordable for
those with disabilities.
Disabled patients in this country deserve a reliable health care
system.
We need to consider real legislation that will address prescription
drug pricing at its core.
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from New York (Mr. Molinaro).
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 2
printed in part B of House Report 118-374.
There being no further amendments under the rule, the Committee
rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
Mast) having assumed the chair, Mr. Perry, Acting Chair of the
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, reported that
that Committee, having had under consideration the bill (H.R. 485) to
amend title XI of the Social Security Act to prohibit the use of
quality-adjusted life years and similar measures in coverage and
payment determinations under Federal health care programs, and,
pursuant to House Resolution 996, he reported the bill, as amended by
that resolution, back to the House with a further amendment adopted in
the Committee of the Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the rule, the previous question is
ordered.
The question is on the amendment.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the engrossment and third
reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was
read the third time.
Motion to Recommit
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to
recommit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mrs. Fletcher moves to recommit the bill H.R. 485 to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XIX, the
previous question is ordered on the motion to recommit.
The question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on the motion to recommit will be followed by a 5-minute
vote on passage of the bill, if ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 207,
nays 210, not voting 14, as follows:
[Roll No. 39]
YEAS--207
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amo
Auchincloss
Balint
Barragan
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bowman
Boyle (PA)
Brown
Brownley
Budzinski
Bush
Caraveo
Carbajal
Cardenas
Carson
Carter (LA)
Cartwright
Casar
Case
Casten
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cherfilus-McCormick
Chu
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis (IL)
Davis (NC)
Dean (PA)
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Deluzio
DeSaulnier
Dingell
Doggett
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fletcher
Foster
Foushee
Frankel, Lois
Frost
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Garcia, Robert
Golden (ME)
Goldman (NY)
Gomez
Gonzalez, Vicente
Gottheimer
Grijalva
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hoyle (OR)
Huffman
Ivey
Jackson (IL)
Jackson (NC)
Jackson Lee
Jacobs
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Kamlager-Dove
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim (NJ)
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster
Landsman
Larsen (WA)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lee (PA)
Leger Fernandez
Levin
Lieu
Lofgren
Lynch
Magaziner
Manning
Matsui
McBath
McClellan
McCollum
McGarvey
McGovern
Meeks
Menendez
Meng
Mfume
Moore (WI)
Morelle
Moskowitz
Moulton
Mrvan
Mullin
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Nickel
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Peltola
Perez
Peters
Pettersen
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Quigley
Ramirez
Raskin
Ross
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Salinas
Sanchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Scholten
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell
Sherman
Sherrill
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Sorensen
Soto
Spanberger
Stansbury
Stanton
Stevens
Strickland
Swalwell
Sykes
Takano
Thanedar
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tokuda
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres (NY)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Vasquez
Veasey
Velazquez
Wasserman Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Williams (GA)
Wilson (FL)
NAYS--210
Aderholt
Alford
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bean (FL)
Bentz
Bergman
Bice
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Boebert
Bost
Brecheen
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Burlison
Calvert
Cammack
Carey
Carl
Carter (GA)
Chavez-DeRemer
Ciscomani
Cline
Cloud
Clyde
Cole
Collins
Comer
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
D'Esposito
Davidson
De La Cruz
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Donalds
Duarte
Duncan
Dunn (FL)
Edwards
Ellzey
Emmer
Estes
Ezell
Fallon
Feenstra
Ferguson
Finstad
Fischbach
Fitzgerald
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flood
Foxx
Franklin, Scott
Fry
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garbarino
Garcia, Mike
Gimenez
Gonzales, Tony
Gooden (TX)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Greene (GA)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hageman
Harris
Harshbarger
Hern
Higgins (LA)
Hill
Hinson
Houchin
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunt
Issa
Jackson (TX)
James
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kean (NJ)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kiggans (VA)
Kiley
Kim (CA)
Kustoff
LaHood
LaLota
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Larson (CT)
Latta
LaTurner
Lawler
Lee (FL)
Lesko
Letlow
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luttrell
Mace
Malliotakis
Maloy
Mann
Massie
Mast
McCaul
McClain
McClintock
McCormick
McHenry
Meuser
Miller (IL)
Miller (OH)
Miller (WV)
Miller-Meeks
Mills
Molinaro
Moolenaar
Moore (AL)
Moore (UT)
Moran
Murphy
Nehls
Newhouse
Nunn (IA)
Obernolte
Ogles
Owens
Palmer
Pence
Pfluger
Posey
Reschenthaler
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose
Rosendale
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Salazar
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Self
Sessions
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spartz
Stauber
Steel
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Strong
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Tiffany
Timmons
Turner
Valadao
Van Drew
Van Duyne
Van Orden
Wagner
Walberg
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams (NY)
Williams (TX)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yakym
Zinke
NOT VOTING--14
Biggs
Carter (TX)
Crane
Crockett
Good (VA)
Green, Al (TX)
Langworthy
Luna
Mooney
Norman
Pelosi
Perry
Phillips
Scalise
{time}  1106
Messrs. RESCHENTHALER, GREEN of Tennessee, LAMBORN, Mrs. HARSHBARGER,
Messrs. BURGESS, CARTER of Georgia, THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, ROGERS of
Alabama, Mrs. KIGGANS of Virginia, Mr. BACON, Mmes. HOUCHIN and CAMMACK
changed their vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''
Ms. McCLELLAN, Mr. EVANS, Mses. BARRAGAN, STANSBURY, Mr. CARTER of
Louisiana, Mses. McCOLLUM, STEVENS, Messrs. MRVAN, MULLIN, and
MOSKOWITZ changed their vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.''
Ms. GRANGER changed her vote from ``present'' to ``nay.''
So the motion to recommit was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
Stated against:
Mr. PERRY. Mr. Speaker, I was unavoidably detained. Had I been
present, I would have voted ``nay'' on rollcall No. 39.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Recorded Vote
Mr. PALLONE. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a 5-minute vote.
[[Page H519]]
The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 211,
noes 208, not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 40]
AYES--211
Aderholt
Alford
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bean (FL)
Bentz
Bergman
Bice
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Boebert
Bost
Brecheen
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Burlison
Calvert
Cammack
Carey
Carl
Carter (GA)
Chavez-DeRemer
Ciscomani
Cline
Cloud
Clyde
Cole
Collins
Comer
Crane
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
D'Esposito
Davidson
De La Cruz
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Donalds
Duarte
Duncan
Dunn (FL)
Edwards
Ellzey
Emmer
Estes
Ezell
Fallon
Feenstra
Ferguson
Finstad
Fischbach
Fitzgerald
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flood
Foxx
Franklin, Scott
Fry
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garbarino
Garcia, Mike
Gimenez
Gonzales, Tony
Good (VA)
Gooden (TX)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Greene (GA)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hageman
Harshbarger
Hern
Higgins (LA)
Hill
Hinson
Houchin
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunt
Issa
Jackson (TX)
James
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kean (NJ)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kiggans (VA)
Kiley
Kustoff
LaHood
LaLota
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
LaTurner
Lawler
Lee (FL)
Lesko
Letlow
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luttrell
Mace
Malliotakis
Maloy
Mann
Massie
Mast
McCaul
McClain
McClintock
McCormick
McHenry
Meuser
Miller (IL)
Miller (OH)
Miller (WV)
Miller-Meeks
Mills
Molinaro
Moolenaar
Moore (AL)
Moore (UT)
Moran
Murphy
Nehls
Newhouse
Norman
Nunn (IA)
Obernolte
Ogles
Owens
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Pfluger
Posey
Reschenthaler
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose
Rosendale
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Salazar
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Self
Sessions
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spartz
Stauber
Steel
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Strong
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Tiffany
Timmons
Turner
Valadao
Van Drew
Van Duyne
Van Orden
Wagner
Walberg
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams (NY)
Williams (TX)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yakym
Zinke
NOES--208
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amo
Auchincloss
Balint
Barragan
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bowman
Boyle (PA)
Brown
Brownley
Budzinski
Bush
Caraveo
Carbajal
Cardenas
Carson
Carter (LA)
Cartwright
Casar
Case
Casten
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cherfilus-McCormick
Chu
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crockett
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis (IL)
Davis (NC)
Dean (PA)
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Deluzio
DeSaulnier
Dingell
Doggett
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fletcher
Foster
Foushee
Frankel, Lois
Frost
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Garcia, Robert
Golden (ME)
Goldman (NY)
Gomez
Gonzalez, Vicente
Gottheimer
Grijalva
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hoyle (OR)
Huffman
Ivey
Jackson (IL)
Jackson (NC)
Jackson Lee
Jacobs
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Kamlager-Dove
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster
Landsman
Larsen (WA)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lee (PA)
Leger Fernandez
Levin
Lieu
Lofgren
Lynch
Magaziner
Manning
Matsui
McBath
McClellan
McCollum
McGarvey
McGovern
Meeks
Menendez
Meng
Mfume
Moore (WI)
Morelle
Moskowitz
Moulton
Mrvan
Mullin
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Nickel
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Peltola
Perez
Peters
Pettersen
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Quigley
Ramirez
Raskin
Ross
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Salinas
Sanchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Scholten
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell
Sherman
Sherrill
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Sorensen
Soto
Spanberger
Stansbury
Stanton
Stevens
Strickland
Swalwell
Sykes
Takano
Thanedar
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tokuda
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres (NY)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Vasquez
Veasey
Velazquez
Wasserman Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Williams (GA)
Wilson (FL)
NOT VOTING--11
Carter (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Harris
Kim (CA)
Kim (NJ)
Langworthy
Larson (CT)
Luna
Mooney
Phillips
Scalise
{time}  1113
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
Stated for:
Mrs. KIM of California. Mr. Speaker, had I been present, I would have
voted ``aye'' on rollcall No. 40.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Speaker, due to a family emergency, I was unable
to be present for votes today. Had I been present, I would have voted
``no'' on rollcall No. 39 and ``aye'' on rollcall No. 40.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Mr. Speaker, I mistakenly voted ``nay'' on
Motion to Recommit H.R. 485, rollcall Vote 39. I intended to vote
``yea.'' Additionally, I regrettably missed recording my vote On
Passage of H.R. 485, rollcall Vote 40. Had I recorded my vote, I would
have voted ``no.''
____________________