WASHINGTON, DC
– Today, Congressman Neal Dunn (Florida-02) celebrated the successful markup of H.R. 1843, a bill to increase transparency in generic drug applications in the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The legislation will increase transparency in generic drug applications to expedite submissions of generic medicines. Congressman Dunn is joined by Congressman Kevin Mullin (CA-15) in introducing this bipartisan legislation.
“Americans see a drastic reduction in their bill at the pharmacy counter when new generic medicines become available. Unfortunately, bureaucratic red tape has made it increasingly difficult to get these medicines into the marketplace,”
said Congressman Dunn.
“I’m proud to lead the effort to improve efficiency in generic medication submissions to the FDA and appreciate my colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee for a successful markup.”
"Lowering drug costs should always be a bipartisan effort. I’m proud to work with Rep. Dunn on this initiative to make lifesaving drugs more accessible and affordable,”
said Congressman Mullin.
“AAM thanks Representatives Dunn and Mullin for reintroducing this legislation and the House E&C Committee for markup of the bill this week,”
said John Murphy III, President and CEO of the Association for Accessible Medicines.
“This bipartisan issue expedites process efficiencies for the industry and at FDA for generic medicines submissions, which will enhance patient access to lower-cost medicine. When generic medicines become available, they immediately bring lower prices for lifesaving and lifechanging medications. AAM looks forward to continuing working with the bill sponsors and the committee to move this legislation forward.”
The legislation would direct the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to disclose the rationale for why a proposed generic drug was not approved. Currently, the FDA is not authorized to disclose the ingredient or ingredients that would prevent companies from bringing a generic medication into the marketplace.
Read the full text of the bill
here
.