Home
Newsroom
Press Releases
April 09, 2025
Takano, Simon, and Schatz Demand Fair Treatment for LGBTQ+ Youth in Schools
WASHINGTON, D.C. –
Today,
Reps. Mark Takano (CA-39)
and
Rep. Lateefah Simon (CA-12)
introduced a resolution to support the Rise Up for LGBTQI+ Youth in Schools Initiative.
Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI)
introduced the companion resolution in the Senate and coincides with the Annual Day of (No) Silence.
“LGBTQ+ students’ right to exist has become a national debate,”
said Congressman Mark Takano, Chair of the Congressional Equality Caucus
. “As a former public school teacher, I know how these attacks from the President and Members of Congress impact students and create a climate of fear and hostility in our classrooms. Education has a transformational power which allows students to explore their passions and make sense of the world, and we in Congress must do everything we can to foster an environment of respect and dignity for all students.
“Every child deserves the chance to play, learn, and belong at school – no exceptions,”
said Congresswoman Lateefah Simon, Vice Chair of the Congressional Equality Caucus
. “As attacks on and discriminatory policies towards the LGBTQ+ community increase, it’s critical we act to protect students. Our resolution calls for equal education opportunities and basic civil rights protections in schools for all students. To put it simply – this resolution is about ensuring all kids can fully participate in their education, extracurriculars and future. Schools should open doors, not close them.”
“Every child should feel safe at school,”
said Senator Brian Schatz.
“As attacks against LGBTQ+ students continue across the country, we need to protect these students and fight back against the discriminatory policies that harm them. Our resolution reaffirms our support for LGBTQ+ students and their right to live freely and openly.”
“LGBTQ+ students should not have to face bullying in their school – whether its harassment from peers or a culture of exclusion fostered by those in power,”
said Melanie Willingham-Jaggers, Executive Director of GLSEN.
“Schools are navigating an unprecedented intimidation campaign from an administration that is incapable of celebrating the increasing diversity of the next generation. It is more urgent than ever that we all rise up for LGBTQ+ youth and insist on safe, affirming, and inclusive learning environments for all. Last week, students across the country inspired us all by participating in the Day of (No) Silence to draw attention to the persistent barriers faced by LGBTQ+ youth in schools. We applaud Senator Schatz, Representative Takano, and Representative Simon for their leadership in elevating the demands of students and showing up with full faith in the boundless potential of our nation’s youth.”
###
Print
Email
Share
Tweet
Previous Article
Next Article