Home
Newsroom
Press Releases
September 24, 2025
Takano, Lofgren, Nadler, Correa, Vargas, Ruiz, Radewagen, and Salazar Reintroduce Bipartisan Veteran Service Recognition Act
WASHINGTON, D.C.
— Today, Reps.
Mark Takano (CA-39)
, Zoe Lofgren (CA-18), Jerry Nadler (NY-12), Lou Correa (CA-46), Juan Vargas (CA-52), Raul Ruiz (CA-25), Amata Coleman Radewagen (AS-AL), and Maria Elvira Salazar (FL-27) reintroduced the
Veteran Service Recognition Act
. In the Senate, Senator Alex Padilla (D-CA) is introducing companion legislation.
The
Veteran Service Recognition Act
would allow noncitizen servicemembers to apply for naturalization during basic training, establish a review process for those who are in removal proceedings, and provide an opportunity for noncitizen veterans who have been removed or ordered removed, and who have not been convicted of a serious crime, to obtain legal permanent residence.
“If you are willing to raise your right hand, put on the uniform, and defend this country, you should have a clear path to citizenship,”
said Rep. Mark Takano, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
“The
Veteran Service Recognition Act
makes good on that promise, and it gives us a way to bring home veterans who served honorably but were deported. Standing up for our veterans has always been bipartisan, and this bill carries that tradition forward.”
“The men and women who risk their lives to serve our country should not have to worry about their immigration status when they get home,”
said Rep. Nadler.
“No matter where they were born, our veterans deserve the utmost respect and should be honored for their bravery and sacrifice, and that includes providing them a path to citizenship. I am proud to join Representative Takano in reintroducing the
Veteran Service Recognition Act
.”
“Immigrants have valiantly served in our nation’s military since its founding,”
said Rep. Lofgren.
“Those who put their life on the line for our country should not be facing the possibility of deportation. I’m proud to be re-introducing the bipartisan
Veteran Service Recognition Act
with my colleagues, so that Congress rights these wrongs and ensures that noncitizen veterans are protected and can access the care and benefits that they’ve earned.”
“If you put your life on the line for our country, you deserve the right to stay in our country,”
said Rep. Ruiz.
“That’s why the
Veteran Service Recognition Act
works to stop the deportation of noncitizen servicemembers and ensures they have due process here in America and a fair chance at citizenship. With today’s introduction of the Veteran Service Recognition Act, we are one step closer to making sure noncitizen veterans are never treated as second-class veterans.”
“Our nation’s veterans served with honor, and they should be treated with respect and dignity regardless of immigration status,”
said Rep. Vargas.
“The
Veteran Service Recognition Act
is an important step towards giving noncitizen veterans a pathway to citizenship in the country they put their lives on the line for, and I’m honored to be an original cosponsor of this legislation.”
“Veterans put their lives on the line to protect our nation and the ideals it represents,”
said Rep. Correa.
“This legislation honors that service by making it easier for active duty servicemembers to become citizens and creating a pathway to legal resident status for U.S. Veterans. Fighting for the United States is the ultimate act of patriotism—let’s deliver our vets the justice and equality they deserve.”
“Thank you to our many U.S. Service Members who volunteer from our closest allies and Freely Associated States,”
said Rep. Radewagen.
“After their service, it is common sense and good policy for these Veterans to be able to remain as permanent residents or pursue citizenship if they choose. They strengthened our military and strengthened the country. All our veterans showed commitment to the country through service, in turn we as a nation have a commitment to support our veterans. Thank you Congressman Takano for leading this effort.”
“All members of our Armed Forces deserve to be treated with dignity and respect,”
said Rep. Salazar.
“Noncitizen veterans, just like their American peers, make the ultimate sacrifice in service of the United States. I’m proud to reintroduce this legislation with Congressman Takano, to streamline the naturalization process for noncitizen veterans and provide due process for those who were wrongfully deported.”
Endorsements:
The American Legion, VoteVets, LULAC, AFL-CIO, UnidosUS, ACLU.
You can find the bill text
here
and a one pager
here
.
Print
Email
Share
Tweet
Previous Article
Next Article