Home
Newsroom
Press Releases
April 10, 2025
Takano, Durbin Introduce Legislation to Protect Students Against Fraud
WASHINGTON, D.C.
—
Today,
Representative Mark Takano (CA-39)
introduced the PROTECT Students Act, first of its kind legislation to codify student protections against fraud in every step of the college experience. This is companion legislation to a bill introduced by
Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL)
.
The PROTECT Students Act addresses several areas of the college experience to ensure that students are protected:
Increases oversight
by creating uniform reporting and data gathering practices to ensure that complaints against institutions and their contractors, as well as student loan servicers, are investigated and resolved.
Makes it easier
for students to eliminate their loans if they graduated from a discredited university and for students to bring class action lawsuits against for-profit universities.
Holds universities accountable
by
ensuring schools are honest about their job placement data, predatory recruitment tactics, and ensure that former fraudsters cannot prey on students again.
“Fraudsters are feeling empowered by this Administration, and the American people are looking for their government to do something,”
said Rep. Takano
. “Students who are hoping to better themselves through a college education deserve protections in law to ensure that the school they choose upholds their promise of high-quality education and a degree. Students deserve to have the backing of laws to take on for-profit colleges, discredited universities, and loan providerswho deceive them.”
“Time and time again, for-profit colleges have scammed students into taking on mountains of student debt without offering a viable degree or career path—and sometimes have even shuttered their doors while a student is enrolled,”
said Senator Durbin.
“Our students deserve to be protected from the predatory tactics of these for-profit schools. The first Trump Administration let for-profit colleges off the hook by rolling back protections like the Gainful Employment Rule and stopping the review of borrower defense claims.  I am introducing the PROTECT Students Act to stand up for students when the Trump Administration won’t by ensuring that for-profit schools are held accountable for taking advantage of students.”
###
Print
Email
Share
Tweet
Previous Article
Next Article