Home
Newsroom
Press Releases
March 06, 2025
Takano Reintroduces Bipartisan Legislation to Guarantee Overtime Pay for Truckers
WASHINGTON, D.C. —
Today,
Representative Mark Takano (CA-39
) reintroduced the Guaranteeing Overtime for Truckers Act. This legislation would eliminate the current existing exemption in the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) of 1938 that exempts truckers from receiving overtime compensation. The bipartisan legislation is co-led by
Congressman Jeff Van Drew (NJ-02)
;
Senator Alex Padilla (D-CA)
and
Senator Ed Markey (D-MA)
are
introducing the companion bill in the Senate.
“Truckers are vital for our supply chain, manufacturing, and the American way of life,”
said Congressman Mark Takano.
“It is unfair that they are singled out as somehow unworthy of overtime pay. This legislation will help right that wrong and make sure they are fairly compensated for the hours they work. I am proud to partner with Congressman Van Drew and Senator Padillato build up workers and guarantee more money in their paychecks.”
“Truck drivers keep our supply chain moving, often working long, exhausting hours to make sure goods get where they need to go,”
said Congressman Van Drew
. “But right now, they are not guaranteed overtime pay like most other workers. It is just not right. The Guaranteeing Overtime for Truckers Act is a simple fix—it ensures that truckers are fairly compensated for the extra hours they put in. These men and women do critical work, and it’s time we make sure their pay reflects that.”
“America’s truck drivers are on the frontlines of our economy, enduring long hours away from home, and all too often, unpaid wait times at congested ports and warehouses. Unfortunately, truck drivers have been excluded from overtime pay protections for decades,”
said Senator Padilla
. “If truckers are forced to wait while on the job, they should be paid. This is not just a matter of fairness; it’s a matter of public safety. Experienced truckers are safer truckers, and better compensation and overtime pay will help more of them stay in the profession.”
“The exclusion of truck drivers from federal overtime protections must come to an end,”
said Teamsters General President Sean M. O’Brien
. “The Teamsters Union is proud to support the Guaranteeing Overtime for Truckers Act, which will right the decades long wrong that serves only to harm drivers to the benefit of their employers.”
“America’s truckers are the backbone of our economy, keeping goods moving and ensuring our supply chain stays strong,”
said Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association President Todd Spencer
. “Yet, despite their essential role, trucking remains one of the few professions in America denied guaranteed overtime pay.It’s long past time the hard work of the men and women behind the wheel are fairly compensated. By discounting a trucker’s time, ‘big trucking’ has driven wages downward, treating truckers as disposable rather than the skilled professionals they are. We appreciate Representative Van Drew, Representative Takano, and Senator Padilla for championing the bipartisan GOT Truckers Act, which will right this wrong by securing overtime pay. This legislation is an investment in truckers, road safety, and the strength of America’s supply chain.”
###
Print
Email
Share
Tweet
Previous Article
Next Article