Home
Newsroom
Press Releases
Filter
Collapse
November 06, 2025
Rep. Takano Hails Nancy Pelosi as Greatest Legislative Leader of 21st Century
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Congressman Mark Takano (CA-39)—Ranking Member of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and Chair of Congressional Equality Caucus—released the following statement reflecting on the extraordinary career of Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi after she announced she would not run for re-election:
Nancy Pelosi has been my colleague, my mentor, and my friend for more than three decades. I met her when I was still a bright-eyed teacher, and even then she was a force driven …
Continue Reading
November 04, 2025
Inland Empire Lawmakers Spotlight Impact of Trump’s Imminent SNAP Cuts on 42 Million Americans at Riverside Food Bank
RIVERSIDE, CA - Today, Members of the Inland Empire Congressional Delegation—Reps. Mark Takano (CA-39), Pete Aguilar (CA-33), Raul Ruiz (CA-25), and Norma Torres (CA-35)—gathered at a local food bank that distributes food across Riverside and San Bernardino Counties to spotlight the impact of the Trump Administration’s refusal to distribute November’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits for 42 million Americans.
Earlier this year, Trump and Republicans cut $186 billion …
Continue Reading
October 17, 2025
Takano Unveils Bills to Stop White House Ballroom Renovations During Shutdown, Curtail Private Donor Naming Rights
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mark Takano (CA-39) introduced two bills to rein in Donald Trump’s construction of the White House Ballroom during a government shutdown and bring oversight to recognizing of private donors on White House property.
White House Building Activities Locked-out in Lapse (BALL) Act: prohibit use of federal funds for construction or renovation during the course of a shutdown except when related to health and safety.
White House National Official …
Continue Reading
October 03, 2025
Rep. Takano Blasts Trump’s Cancelation of $1 Billion+ in California Clean Energy Grants
RIVERSIDE, CA — Today, Rep. Mark Takano (CA-39) released the following statement after the Department of Energy (DOE) terminated grants that total more than $1,000,000,000 for University of California institutions including UC, Riverside, to lead the way for the transition to clean, cheap energy:
“Trump’s campaign of political retribution continues, this time canceling grants which will halt projects that boost clean energy production. These much-needed investments create jobs, lower energy …
Continue Reading
September 24, 2025
Takano, Lofgren, Nadler, Correa, Vargas, Ruiz, Radewagen, and Salazar Reintroduce Bipartisan Veteran Service Recognition Act
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Reps. Mark Takano (CA-39), Zoe Lofgren (CA-18), Jerry Nadler (NY-12), Lou Correa (CA-46), Juan Vargas (CA-52), Raul Ruiz (CA-25), Amata Coleman Radewagen (AS-AL), and Maria Elvira Salazar (FL-27) reintroduced the Veteran Service Recognition Act. In the Senate, Senator Alex Padilla (D-CA) is introducing companion legislation.
The Veteran Service Recognition Act would allow noncitizen servicemembers to apply for naturalization during basic training, establish a review …
Continue Reading
September 15, 2025
Rep. Takano Denounces Cancelation of Minority Serving Institution Grants
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Rep. Mark Takano (CA-39) released the following statement after the Department of Education moved to cancel over $350 million in discretionary funds intended to support Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs). MSI designations offer targeted federal funding to support underrepresented student populations pursuing higher education.
“UC Riverside was the first school in the UC system to be recognized as a Hispanic Serving Institution; and in 2018, UCR was recognized as an …
Continue Reading
September 08, 2025
CECOT Survivor Andry José Hernández Romero Meets with Rep. Mark Takano
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Mark Takano (CA-39) met virtually with Andry José Hernández Romero, the gay makeup artist and asylum seeker wrongfully disappeared by the Trump Administration to the notorious El Salvador prison CECOT. While Andry has since been released from the veritable gulag that is CECOT, his story is shocking to the conscience—as the Congressman heard firsthand.
Andry came to the United States seeking asylum from threats he faced in Venezuela because of his sexual orientation and …
Continue Reading
August 07, 2025
Library of Congress Erases Parts of Constitution from Website, Rep. Takano Demands Answers
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Mark Takano (CA-39) sent a letter to Acting Librarian of Congress, Robert Newlen, demanding answers on the deletion of portions of the Constitution from an official government site run by the Library of Congress. Sections from Article 1 of the Constitution, including sections that implement the powers of Congress, provide checks against the President, Congressional oversight of DC, and govern the military were removed.
“Seeing the Library of Congress erase whole …
Continue Reading
July 24, 2025
Takano Signs onto Bipartisan Epstein Bill
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Mark Takano signed onto H.Res.581, bipartisan legislation that would ensure the American public can know the truth about convicted child sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein.
“I cosponsored this bipartisan legislation because the American people deserve the truth. Jeffrey Epstein committed horrific crimes andfor years, powerful people helped him, enabled him, or looked the other way. The public deserves to know who was involved.
But instead of helping us shine a light, …
Continue Reading
July 01, 2025
Rep. Takano on Senate Passage of Republican Spending Bill
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Rep. Mark Takano (CA-39), released the following statement after the Senate passed the Republican reconciliation bill, sending the legislation back to the House for final passage:“The Republican spending bill is nothing more than a cruel giveaway to the powerful at the expense of everyday Americans. It slashes programs that help our neighbors meet their most basic needs—gutting SNAP, cutting Medicaid, and pushing hospitals, especially in rural areas, toward …
Continue Reading
June 12, 2025
Rep. Takano Introduces Legislation to Halt Funding to El Salvador Mega-Prison
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Rep. Mark Takano (CA-39) introduced a bill to halt and prohibit both current and future funding to the Centro de Confinamiento del Terrorismo (CECOT) maximum security prison. This comes after reports that the White House initiated a $6 million payment to the notorious prison to detain immigrants deported to El Salvador.
Credible reporting has revealed CECOT engages in human rights abusesto include beatings, electric shocks, and cruel living conditions. This bill …
Continue Reading
May 22, 2025
Takano Slams House GOP’s Huge Cuts to Basic Needs Programs to Fund Tax Break for Billionaires
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Representative Mark Takano released the following statement after the House passed a budget bill which would cut people's basic needs while funding a tax break for billionaires:"In dead of night, Republicans rammed through a budget bill that will strip health insurance from nearly 14 million Americans, put 11 million people on food assistance at risk of hunger, and increase the deficit by $2.3 trillion. Why make all these heartless cuts? To fund a tax break for billionaires. …
Continue Reading
May 21, 2025
Statement on the Passing of Representative Gerry Connolly
WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Mark Takano released the following statement on the passing of Rep. Gerry Connolly:"My heart breaks for Gerry’s friends and family.
"While he was a passionate advocate for his Virginia constituency, his childhood Massachusetts accent would shine through on the House floor as he exclaimed, “Mister Speaker.” I would always tease him for it.
"A witty, pugnacious, and principled fighter for our democracy and good government—we lost someone which great intelligence …
Continue Reading
April 29, 2025
TAKANO, MERKLEY LEAD REINTRODUCTION OF HISTORIC EQUALITY ACT TO BAN DISCRIMINATION AGAINST LGBTQ+ AMERICANS
Washington, D.C. - Congressional Equality Caucus Chair Rep. Mark Takano and U.S. Senator Jeff Merkley teamed up with Wisconsin’s U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin and New Jersey’s U.S. Senator Cory Booker for the bicameral reintroduction of the Equality Act in an effort to push back against escalated attacks from the Trump Administration, MAGA Republicans, and state legislatures on the rights and freedoms of LGBTQ+ Americans nationwide.
In states across the country, over 850 anti-LGBTQ+ bills have …
Continue Reading
April 10, 2025
Takano, Durbin Introduce Legislation to Protect Students Against Fraud
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Mark Takano (CA-39) introduced the PROTECT Students Act, first of its kind legislation to codify student protections against fraud in every step of the college experience. This is companion legislation to a bill introduced by Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL).
The PROTECT Students Act addresses several areas of the college experience to ensure that students are protected:
Increases oversight by creating uniform reporting and data gathering practices …
Continue Reading
April 09, 2025
Takano, Simon, and Schatz Demand Fair Treatment for LGBTQ+ Youth in Schools
WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Reps. Mark Takano (CA-39) and Rep. Lateefah Simon (CA-12) introduced a resolution to support the Rise Up for LGBTQI+ Youth in Schools Initiative. Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI) introduced the companion resolution in the Senate and coincides with the Annual Day of (No) Silence.
“LGBTQ+ students’ right to exist has become a national debate,” said Congressman Mark Takano, Chair of the Congressional Equality Caucus. “As a former public school teacher, I know how these …
Continue Reading
March 20, 2025
Takano Rebukes Executive Order Illegally Dismantling the Department of Education
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Representative Mark Takano (CA-39), a former public school teacher and senior member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, released the following statement following President Trump signing an Executive Order directing Secretary McMahon to begin illegally dismantling the Department of Education:  “Secretary McMahon has been directed to deny American students their right to a free and fair education,” said Rep. Takano. “It is impossible to complete the work the …
Continue Reading
March 17, 2025
Statement on the Passing of Representative Nita Lowey
WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Mark Takano released the following statement on the passing of Rep. Nita Lowey:“I had the privilege of serving along side Congresswoman Nita Lowey for nearly a decade in Congress until her retirement in 2020," said Congressman Takano. "She always warm and friendly, but beneath that grandmotherly exterior was woman who wielded enormous influence quietly and effectively.  I thought of her as “non-showy Lowey.” A pioneer in many ways, she was one of the few women …
Continue Reading
March 13, 2025
Statement on the Passing of Representative Raúl Grijalva
WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congressman Mark Takano released the following statement on the passing of Rep. Raúl Grijalva:"I am deeply saddened by the passing of my good friend Raúl Grijalva. He first came into my awareness when he was among the first to endorse former Vermont Governor Howard Dean for President in 2003/2004. We forged a deep friendship when I was first elected to Congress in 2012. He was instrumental in insisting that I lead the fight in Congress on the issue of deported veterans. I …
Continue Reading
March 06, 2025
Takano Reintroduces Bipartisan Legislation to Guarantee Overtime Pay for Truckers
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representative Mark Takano (CA-39) reintroduced the Guaranteeing Overtime for Truckers Act. This legislation would eliminate the current existing exemption in the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) of 1938 that exempts truckers from receiving overtime compensation. The bipartisan legislation is co-led by Congressman Jeff Van Drew (NJ-02); Senator Alex Padilla (D-CA) and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) are introducing the companion bill in the Senate.
“Truckers are vital for …
Continue Reading
Showing page
Showing Page
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
of 39
« previous
next »