we would like to welcome congressman, congressman woman, excuse me, doris matsui, a member of the energy and commerce health subcommittee. she is a leader on the bipartisan connect for health act, which addresses a number of telehealth policies. congresswoman, thank you for joining us, bob. thanks, katie. thanks, congressman, for joining us this morning. thank you. you have introduced bipartisan legislation on healthcare, which is hard to do. well. and it is with bill johnson of ohio. can you tell us a little bit about what that legislation would do and where it is in the congress right now? ok. bill johnson, i have been doing a lot of things together. and actually, in technology, we seem to be able to work together really well with the other side on telehealth of bill johnson. and also, we are at the dothry when i work with spectrum. but what we are trying to do, bill nye, is essentially to actually move forward with ensuring that we can have more access to telehealth. and the way we are doing it is that we already passed medicare advantage as far as being able to use telehealth there. what we are trying to do is really kind of attack the big one in which is medicare fee for service, which is difficult because cms, hhs believes that, or cbo, believes that it is going to be cost more, essentially. it used more services. but in fact, what we like to do is give the secretary sort of to waive certain restrictions so that he can decide what type of services can be paid for fee for service, reimbursement, rather. and then let them decide and let the actual decide at that point. so we feel, in essence, because that is really the big one to attack. and if we do that and move that forward, it really breaks open a lot of reimbursement issues. what do you see in your district? what are you hearing from your constituents? and we talk about acronyms of cbo and hhs. and what do you see at the ground level of telehealth and telemedicine that is actually helping patients where technology is an asset? well, you know, nowadays, technology's all around us. i mean, our personal lives, we use it all the time. and so i believe that, in essence, people want to see this more in health care and make it more efficient. and certainly, that is one of the aspects of lowering the cost, too. and i believe it can be safe and secure and cost-saving, too. if, in fact, we allow patients to monitor themselves, in essence, especially chronic diseases like diabetes. and also, when you think about the fact that there are deficiencies in really reaching out to specialists or primary care doctors, and their barriers of geography and also transportation. so why not allow individuals to really do maybe video conferences, be able to do things electronically, so that the patients themselves feel like they have the opportunity to access health care efficiently. and during the time that they can actually do it, too, a lot of people cannot have in-person care. i mean, that is just the way it is, particularly rural areas, even urban areas where particular older folks cannot get around as much. so i think from medicare in particular. and also, we are looking at it in behavior health. i think that is so important, because there are some behavior health provider shortages. and in this way, a person can contact their psychologists and be able to have a conversation or be able to be assisted in a way that is timely. and with particular behavior in mental health, sometimes you need that right away. and it is difficult to get to your health care provider, your mental health provider. and in this way, you can assist a person with their health care, mental health care, in a timely manner. what is the effect of access to broadband? i mean, everybody come in washington and new york and the northeast thinks, well, everyone has access to the internet, but it is really not the case. how big a problem is that? i think it is a big problem. it really is, because we cannot have even an urban area. i mean, most people think an urban area has broadband. not all the time is that true, because they are underserved areas in the urban areas. but particularly rural areas, it is difficult to have broadband out there. careers do not want to be there. it does not costly. so that is where we have to incentivize the carriers to be out there, in essence. and so that is where we look at wireless and things like that. and so the rural areas are really areas where we really believe broadband is going to be necessary for them to not only have the health care that need and deserve, but for economic development also. you remember the energy and commerce telehealth working group? yes. what are the priorities of that group and how often do you meet, et cetera, et cetera? it is a group that was put together by chairman of the washington, when he was chairman. and it is a group of us who really look at these issues of health and technology and try to move bills forward. and we have been very successful to do that, and opening up the discussion, in many cases, too. because there are privacy aspects here that people are concerned about. and we do have to deal with that with cybersecurity, because we have to look at what we do as far as making sure the platform in health care works for this, and especially when we are talking about electronic health records, which are necessary. and that is one of the things we are incentivizing, too, to a great degree. we have a piece of it in the opioids bill, which should be coming up this week, in which we are incentivizing behavior health providers to use and adopt by using some of the center payments, just as we did with hospitals and doctors, and left them out as far as behavior health. this was some time ago, though, with the high-tech act. so it is really concerning to all of us, particularly now, that we have really addressed more thoroughly, and hopefully more carefully, mental health care. it is being on parity with physical health. in 2017, according to a recent study, 71% of health care providers use some type of telemedicine pool, which is pretty good. but how can that number get higher? i need to get higher. i think the problem is a lot of, there are problems, i think, in communicating, too. we have different systems. and they are working through that. but also, i think people are sort of concerned about privacy aspects. and i think that has to be resolved. we like to see something take place in hhs, and have definitely some security aspect. and have a regulation? no, i think really having, i used to, i had to build this, i am going to do this again, where we really have somebody at the level of the assistant secretary being in charge of this. because i believe that there are certain areas that people feel like they are siloed. and i really feel that we need to have an expert there who understands what is going on to assist the health care providers. how can cms and stakeholders help the situation and provide more access and work together in a way? well, cms has to be much more flexible. and i think they have been put to a certain degree, too. and that is why we want to really incentivize, have them incentivize, for instance, the behavioral health providers, to really use and adopt a lot of the electronic health records, which they are not right now. so we like them to do that and to really open it up so that it would be easier to do it. now, you can do this at a level where you can have demonstration projects. and i think those kinds of things are really efficient and they really do prove something. and both democrats and republicans like that. because you are looking at it to see if it proves that. and then you can expand it. is there a lot of news this week? but actually, the government is not going to have a shutdown by partisan bill, a funding bill that passed. and there is actually been a lot of bipartisanship on appropriations this year. on the energy and commerce committee, what is the level of bipartisanship? well, i think recently, particularly in opioids, because that affects every district in this country. there is been a lot of bipartisanship. i believe where we were able to focus on the opioid crisis. what some of us would like to do is expand it even further, particularly because a lot of the payment for opioids, at least in the sense of behavior health, is to mitigate. and we need to look at medicaid and know that that is a vehicle which a lot of these things are paid for. and so even though we are an agreement with the fact that we have to address opioid crisis and we are doing things, it is still at the edges yet. we need to look at the whole situation and move forward. but it is good that we are addressing it. and as i said, technology, the technology subcommittee, we really do work very well together. it could just more regional differences than partisan differences. and many times i represent urban suburban area. so i work with my rural area colleagues because i have got the population. and they have got all this surface area and land. and i like the system because i have got underserved areas. they have underserved areas. and many times we can help each other when we work through some of these things. because if we can get help for each, then we are both winning. and a few minutes we will open up to questions. so think of your questions. one of the big questions heading into the crucial stretch here about 40 days away in midterms is the house going to flip to the government director. to your party, do you think the house is going to flip this fall? well, i am not going to be a prognosticator. i would just say that i am quietly confident. but listen, it is a long time. 40 days is a long time in politics. and so we are just going to work every single day. each of us. and i will leave it there. health care, though, democrats have been talking a lot this election year about health care. two part question. number one, is it the biggest issue that you hear in your district? and number two, should democrats win? would that be a number one, number two, number three, top three priorities? all of us are hearing about health care in different ways. where there was about pre-existing conditions, it is about premiums. it is about the fact that they finally feel like they have some health care. and they do not want to lose it. and so it is a big issue. that and jobs, which we are addressing also. but yes, health care is something that we start out with if we are over-care act. and i was on the committee at the time when we wrote that. and we knew that there were first-get access, and we had to lower the costs. and we could not get all of that ton. so therefore, we are looking at the access part. i think we need to stabilize a marketplace. we knew how to do that. and we will move forward on that if we take the house back, obviously. but the thing is, is that i believe the republicans also understand, too, that health care is still very important. so we have to move forward on that and addressing the costs of health care. and i think all of us understand is too costly. so we are moving in a way of value over quantity, particularly in areas in that medicare. and so people understand that it is much easier and better to look at the whole continuum care. and we started moving in that direction with kind of a care of conversations and medical homes. and looking forward to, as we address, all of the ultimate aspects of the costs over time and using technology, which we have not used as well as we probably could, to use that to address some of the costs also, and the convenience. and also, i think we get better health care that way, too. a little bit up for questions in the last few minutes of this segment. so if you have a question, please raise your hand. and identify yourself. and just wait for the microphone to get to you. hi, congresswoman. hope all is well. good morning. my name is calvin robinson from williams and jensen. my question for you is, do you guys have any views on removing the restrictions of 1834m? which one is that one? that one is for telehealth regulations, basically focusing on different things from originating sites, health plans, where we are doing this. oh, yes, right. we are addressing that. particularly a piece of it has been addressed in the opioids bill, as it is part of the opioids bill, as we move forward. and it really is right now, just for the opioids, we would like to expand it out further. and that is part of what we intend to do. this is part of having some of this lifted by the secretary of hhs, and the wave some of these conditions. and so we believe in making progress in that area, and the originating sites, and things like that at the first step. other questions? how has it been working with the trump administration on health care? well, i have not necessarily been working with the trump administration on health care. i have been working with my colleagues on the energy and commerce committee. and it is been an interesting, because there is been a lot previously, all that repealing replace, that never happened really. they did the repeal, but they never did replace, and that did not pass anyway. so i think it is been quieter. so we have been focusing on the aspects that we can work together. and i mean, that is really very important. and understanding that there are aspects of it, where, in fact, i mentioned medicare and medicaid. and when the opioid crisis came about, which is interesting, because we, in my district, were the crisis maybe a couple of years ago, addressing it. but it did not come that way in the rest of the country. so it is particularly on northeast and the east. it started really taking hold. so when your district did not really hit the south, the south, the south, the south. it did hit, but it hit earlier. ok. and a lot of us coming down from trying to mexico, but we were addressing as quickly as we could. not that we do not have a crisis, or it is all gone. it is never gone. i mean, i think those are the kinds of things. we really have to continue the address. i mean, we know with health care, nothing's ever completely done. and one of the things is that you never know what is going to come up next, whether it is that, ebola, whatever. so therefore, i think, particularly in energy and commerce, we get involved in many, many things. and the aspects of what we are doing are really relevant to what is happening today, whatever it is. and because of that, we seem to be able. we had some problems with health. but because everybody had the same situation, we are able to work together. and also, make some reforms to start to make some reforms, in particular areas like medicaid and medicare, as you brought up. and hopefully, we can use that to move forward. because there is somewhat like to certain degrees on the demonstration projects on their own. yeah. you mentioned affordability in working with republicans and republicans see that there are problems as the senator and congresswoman carter mentioned in our last panel. do you think, whatever happens in the election, that there could be, let us say, outside of opioids, let us say outside of obamacare, because that is going to be difficult, that there could be some work on prescription drug prices. oh, yeah. anything like that? you think there could be bipartisanship on that? i hope so, because that is what comes up in off a lot, the cost of prescription drugs. and that is where a lot of costs are really, particularly, a problem. and so we are looking at prescription drug costs, particularly in medicare. and we like to see medicare use its leverage. since it is got 40 million people in beneficiaries. and they all use medications. so if we can use that as a bargaining power, i think it would be great, because i think everybody knows if medicare moves, the rest of it moves, too. so that is an issue that president trump has mentioned, at least on the campaign trail. but critics say he has not done much. well, i have not seen too much in that. so we are really looking at it and trying to figure out. a lot of it is layered, too. you cannot tell sometimes when one adjusts one way, like go down one way, and then they pick up, it is costly, another place. so it is a complicated issue, but it is one of the top issues for all of us. what about single payer? would that be a top priority for house democratic control, chamber? i think that is more through some of the states. i mean, the way i look at it, i believe in universal health care. so how we get there is going to be maybe, we will look at it with it. we only have buy into medicare, medicare for all. we are not there yet. i am just trying to recall, even though we are talking, we are not talking about a quarter of a carer. at the very beginning, we had a public option. so we understand what steps we might want to take in order to get to universal care. it is something that we are talking about, but we are not taking the action right now. just on the overall issue of funding, is that something that health care needs more funding? and would it be taxes? i mean, some people say the tax cuts need to be repealed. some democrats are saying that. well, i think if you look at the whole system, there are places that we can reduce costs. and i think we have to look at that. i think we need to look at the marketplace and make some adjustments there. and i also believe that we need to ensure that medicare and medicaid are stable. i think that is really very important, because that provides so much of the health care of our nation. but i am not going to say right away, we have to add money to the system. i mean, i think we need to balance this thing out, because there are things in the system right now, like we are talking about prescription drugs, that we need to squeeze some efficiencies out of right now. well, thank you for joining us this morning. thank the congresswoman. i hand it back to katie. thank you so much.