thank you. well this is really overwhelming. thank you so very much. who knew that service can really produce an occasion like this? but let me tell you, service is everything. for all of us in this room. and i truly believe this is what makes our country stand out above all others. the fact that we look after each other, the sense that our community is not great unless every single person participates at his own level and potential. i am so thrilled to be here. i am so thrilled to be amongst all the advocates and supporters and representatives of the service community. service has always been something that brought people together, even as a young child. i knew that. coming to a kindergarten, i realized i did not have many friends yet because we moved into a new house. so in order to acquaint myself with the other kindergarteners, we decided to have a project. we planted flowers around the schoolhouse, which brought much joy to all of us and brought a sense of community to those little five-year-olds. and in me, instilled forever the sense that you only are able to be a part of a community if you give back. and i am so thrilled to be here today, in particular, to receive this wonderful award. senator kennedy was a true champion for national service. and i am deeply honored to receive this award in his name. in 2009, when president obama signed the edward m. kennedy service america act into law, he talked about the legislation was about connecting deeds to needs. and as you know, americorps and senior corps members are doing that every single day. they are tutoring and mentoring at ris students. they are helping local governments to dress climate change. they are providing nutrition and financial literacy education and so much more. volunteers are answering the most urgent challenges we face as a nation. and that is why elevating the importance of national service has been one of the constants of my career, even before i came to congress. as many of you know, when i was working in a clinton white house many years ago, americorps was created. and his co-chair of the national service caucus, which i lead with my colleague, congressman price, i am committed to fighting for the corporation of a national service so that it receives the federal support it needs. it needs for amazing volunteers. because volunteers need the support, we need to support the volunteers so they can go out in a community and spread their wonderful goodness. i have always believed that our shared prosperity as a nation is directly tied to our collective commitment to service. in fact, it was president teddy roosevelt who said, this country will not be permanently a good place for any of us to live unless we make it a reasonably good place for all of us to live in. now, we cannot be satisfied with our own individual gain. we have to look around and see what else we can do. it must continue to be a part of who we are as americans. and just last month, we celebrated the martin luther king day of service, dr. king's words remain enduring. life's most persistent and urgent question is, what are you doing for others? are volunteers answering that question and that call to action? and your continued advocacy is essential for them to be able to do so. i want to thank you so very much for being here and for being out in a community, spreading the word about the importance of service for all of us in this country and throughout the world. thank you so very much for the honor.