thank you very much. wow, i think they expect everybody to be six, seven, or something like that here. come on. honestly, it is so wonderful to be here. and i thought everybody would be jazzed up with the introductions of the presentation early on. and i realized when i was looking at that with all the hooping, that i have a little secret. i am not going to do anything next year. but i do the hula hoop. i do. my husband kind of chest to that. and i have gotten the weighted hula hoop now. some kind of an expert on that. not quite like that. i do not think i could do the olympic rings. but you know what? just to jazz it up next year, i may want to bring my hula hoop, too. but anyway, it is wonderful to see all of you here this morning. and i heard a comment outside that maybe you would not have to come to this event. but this is one of the first times you can see each other in person without your masks, as long as you have a drink or you are eating something. but in this wonderful, beautiful, safe, credit union convention center, it is absolutely wonderful. it is just to me, signals and auspicious beginning to what we are going to be doing now. as we come together emerging from the pandemic anxieties of the last two years. first of all, i want to thank michael alt and his team and his board. you have held it together. you have done a tremendous job. perseverance and tenacity through all these challenges. and i also want to have a shout out to our mayor, mayor steinberg, who has responsibility for this hub, this downtown, which is really the heart of the city, but also for the rest of the city, too. so thank you, mayor steinberg, for everything that you have been doing, too. and we could be honest, the last two years have been tough. we have endured a lot, and no sector of the economy has been untouched. i think back to the earliest days of the pandemic, when we really did not know what this virus would do. and there was still no vaccine at that time. and my staff and i were on the phone constantly with many of you, the business owners, the community leaders, ordinary people, our neighbors, listening to your concerns and getting your feedback and your personal stories. they were invaluable. because as we are crafting our federal relief efforts, we needed to understand what was happening on the ground to all of you, to all of us. so we fought to get as many resources as possible to our businesses, many of them small businesses here, downtown restaurants, retail shops, retailers, osaka, here, downtown, and our region's families. the cares act, the 2020, included $89 million for the city. the rescue plan provided over $350 billion across to local governments across the country, which we felt really needed and understood where to put the monies. we received here over $112 million. so that is over $200 million of the last two years. and right now, we all know we are at this inflection point. we can tell it kind of with looking ahead, the broadest smiles we have as we greet each other. and as you will hear from mayor steinberg and michael, we are moving forward on all cylinders, which will be a truly a testament to the resiliency and innovative spirit amongst all of you. we have all worked together to get us to this point. investments and opportunities are coming from all directions. and at the federal level, i have been fighting really hard to make sure that sacramento continues to get the resources we need to continue our economic recovery and come back even stronger so we can live our dreams. and as we speak, the bipartisan infrastructure law is delivering federal dollars across the nation. and these historic investments are going to help build sacramento's future. we have always been an infrastructure town. we know how important it is to ensure that we secure our water resources to make sure we have flood protection, to make sure we think ahead about transportation and our health care. but now we are going to be giving really our new homegrown innovators the tools to continue leading the way in this next stage of our progress, sacramento. it is never been clear. sacramento is vibrant. it is an innovative, metropolis with ideas that are ready to go. you know, i think just a couple of weeks ago, i was touring the region, visiting our airport, our wonderful partners at rt and smud, and our beloved sacramento valley station. and i got the chance to some of the people at the library about broadband access. these are very important infrastructure pieces here. and in each of these stops, i was greeted with the new innovative plans. the optimist that look for the future. plans are already underway and projects that will really they will absolutely improve the economy and the lives of the community throughout this whole region. the bipartisan infrastructure law truly represents a generational investment that is opening all of these doors. and in sacramento, our doors are wide open. because we are prepared. we are prepared to move ahead in a very, very urgent way. but sacramento is just never wait. we have already seen many projects, managed with the south right before our eyes. even during this pandemic, we have been working ahead. look at this convention center complex. we were doing this all the way through the pandemic. and right now, we are currently gathering now is an amazing cutting edge addition to downtown. it is truly the convention and performing arts district. a culturally vibrant corridor where residents and visitors will be able to walk and admire public art and experience our culture of creativity. just a couple months ago, we opened up the new smud mosaic, a place that will capture the imaginations and inspiration and optimism of our youth in this region. we are continuing to be home to a thriving arts community. and whether it is the world class, exhibits of the crocker, the murals of the wide open walls, or the sounds of the sacramento philharmonic, we have captured the power of creative spaces and sounds and music and their ability to enrich our lives. i could go on and on. but that is just scratching the surface of how we are moving the needle in our economic development. sacramento is one special place. i think you all agree to that. and i am just talking about all these exciting projects. and how it reminds me why i love representing this community. we work toward common goals. we collaborate. we build community conscious spaces that seek to improve the lives our people, our neighbors. we support our innovators and our businesses because we know that these economic drivers do not just support jobs and community growth today. but they will sustain us for generation. so as we move forward, we have a lot to be proud of and also a lot to look forward to. i am so excited about the next steps. i know we are getting there. we can see the future now. it might have been cloudy before, but the clouds are drifting away. it is time now. it is time now to really get out there. and we can begin to build and build and soar. so thank you again for all of you here. this morning, this bright morning, to come together. first of all, to welcome each other and be happy that we can be together. but to know that we are going to be worked together and we are going to have a fabulous time starting from now. so thank you very much for letting me speak a little bit. thank you.