now a cbs 13 special presentation, the u.s. senate debate. and now your moderator, greg lagerquist. we are going to hear a lot more from the two candidates throughout the course of the next half hour. first let us go ahead and have a quick word on our rules for the folks at home. each candidate will have one minute for their opening statements, then we will have one minute to answer each question. each candidate will have a chance to answer each question followed by a discussion. and rebuttal time, it is our format to encourage that discussion time as a way to explore their differences on the issues. we will also have a lightning round, a series of rapid fire questions and answers followed by closing remarks after that. now before the debate, we drew names at random to determine the order in which they would appear before you. so let us go ahead and get right to it. based on that random drawing, we begin our opening statements with the democratic nominee, shenebello. so you have one minute please. thank you, greg. i am shenebello's and i grew up in hancock. my father's a carpenter and we struggle when i was a kid. i grew up without electricity or running water until i was in the fifth grade. i worked hard through the peace corps, to the american civil liberties union, to try to make the world a better place. and that is why i am running for us senate. susan collins has been in office for 18 years and she is done some good things. but lately, when it is really mattered, she is voted with washington republicans to block president obama at every turn. i will vote on the people's side to raise the minimum wage for equal pay, for equal work, and to increase benefits for our seniors and our veterans, working people deserve a voice in washington. thank you. thank you very much to you, the republican nominee and incumbent susan collins. for a state with just little over a million people, maine has selected remarkable senators, edmund muskie, margaret chase smith, george mitchell, bill cohen, olympia snow. they represented different parties, but what they had in common was the commitment of civil, honest debate, to progress through bipartisan compromise, and to a better life for the people of our state. i have worked hard each and every day since i was selected to uphold that proud tradition. when government shut down last fall, i did not waste my time on partisan political slogans. instead, i put together a coalition of seven republicans, six democrats and angus king. and together, we hammered out the framework that allowed government to reopen. that is the way government can and should work. and that is the course that i want to continue to follow. my thanks to you for hosting this forum this evening. thank you very much to both of you for your opening statements. go ahead and get right to the question. here it is. it has to do with the federal budget and your priorities. here's the question. do you believe the nation's rising federal deficit is a threat to our national security? and what specifically would you support to try and close that deficit? and please include both the spending and the taxes side in your answer. if you would, and based on our rotating format, we are going to begin this question with senator susan collins. thank you. well, first of all, i do believe that our $17 trillion debt poses a serious threat to our country. and the fact that this year we will have a deficit of about a half of a billion trillion rather dollars. i would eliminate the sugar subsidy, a lot of the crop subsidies that go to wealthy midwestern and southern farmers. we cannot afford them. there were billions of dollars a year, a year. and we have to look at the revenue side as well. i would support, for example, and have voted repeatedly to eliminate the tax breaks that go to the five largest energy companies. we cannot afford them and they do not need them. but we do need to have a balanced approach. what we do not need in this scenario, a major difference with my opponent, is the increase spending for every program that there is virtually. we just cannot afford that. thank you so much. it is the same question you should have been able to ask. this congress, including susan, have mortgaged our young people's future by allowing the deficit to grow out of control and indeed allowing the debt to grow out of control. i think we need more fiscal responsibility. our investments should be in the economy, in education, and healthcare here at home. and we should cut spending for defense. we should stop spending billions of dollars, spying on ordinary americans. and we should stop spending billions of dollars and carcerating more people than any other country in the world and more people than any other country per capita in the world. and what we have seen under susan collins is she has voted for every budget bill. she is voted for tax cuts for the wealthiest americans. she voted to send us overseas and spend over $1 trillion on the war in iraq. and those expenditures, that is what is led us to the current budget crisis. thank you very much to both your answers. senator collins, go ahead and respond to what she just said. thank you. well, first of all, i have voted five times to increase taxes on the wealthiest americans. most recently, as part of a bipartisan compromise reached with the administration, democrats and republicans alike overwhelmingly voted to increase taxes for those making over $450,000 a year. but to extend the tax relief for middle income and low income families. and i am proud of that vote. i think that was the right thing to do. let us look at military spending. we are living in a very dangerous world. a world where the experts tell us that the terrorist threat has never been higher. and yet we have already implemented cuts of $800 billion in the defense budget. we are a state that makes an enormous contribution to our national security. and we have some 20,000 direct and indirect jobs that depend on defense spending, defense spending that we need in this country. let me ask you before we get to that. i was going to ask. just admitted that you voted for tax cuts for the wealthiest americans five times. and what we are seeing in this country is that the richer getting richer, the poorer getting poorer, and the middle class is disappearing. and i remember vividly one of those tax cuts you voted for because i was executive director of the american civil liberties union in charge of payroll for all of my employees. and the payroll tax cuts expired. and not one person in washington stood up and said that that was wrong. you cut taxes for the wealthiest americans and let the payroll taxes rise again. what we need is a fairer tax system. we do need to increase taxes on the wealthiest americans and decrease taxes for the middle class. i am going to stick with this. i did not speak because if i did what i meant to say is that i voted five times to increase taxes on the wealthiest americans. perhaps i said that. that is what i heard in your response. so i do not understand a shenaness response. i voted five times to increase taxes on the wealthiest americans. in what way if you would expand upon that? well, as part of the fiscal cliff deal, for example, i voted to increase taxes on everyone making over $450,000 a year. and i also have voted to increase taxes on millionaires and billionaires in order to keep spending on important social programs like headstart. that was the sanders amendment that i supported. i have done it time again. i voted to take away the tax breaks that the five largest oil companies get. i voted to end the tax credit for ethanol. you know, it is just not true. but the one thing i think that perhaps is an area of agreement is i believe that our tax code needs to be rebamped from top to bottom. this is called to make it fairer, simpler and more pro-gror. let us let chena bellas have a chance to respond. and maybe the last word on this if we may. you have had 18 years to overhaul the tax code. and what we see today is a system in which warren buffett pays less than his housekeeper or his secretary percentage-wise. and that is wrong. we are in a system of huge income and wealth inequality in this country that is undermining the american dream. and that is why we need change and why it is so important that we have fresh energy in washington. and one of those five votes was to proceed to consideration of the so-called buffett rule. are there any responses to that? are you? i think everyone should agree that right now our tax code is not working for the middle class or working families. i think we can all agree that right now policies in washington are benefiting the wealthiest individuals in the largest corporations at the expense of working families. he both largely got it my follow-up question as well. so let us keep moving.