senator for maine. thank you, madam president. madam president, i rise today with my friend and colleague, the senator from missouri, senator mccasco, to inform our colleagues of an important development in the investigation underway by the special committee on aging. as we examine the sudden and dramatic price heights for certain decades old prescription drugs, first, madam president, let me provide you and our colleagues with some background on our investigation today. given that 90% of seniors take at least one prescription drug every month, the greatest price increases that we have witnessed on these older drugs that are no longer under patent protection could inflate the cost of health care by hundreds of millions of dollars each year. concerned not only about the high costs, but also about the potential risks that patients would not be able to access the prescription drugs that they need, we launched a bipartisan investigation early last november into the causes, the effects, and the potential solutions to these massive unjustified price increases. our investigation is focused on four companies that recently acquired six drugs that were decades old. drugs whose patents had expired long ago, and then these companies after purchasing these drugs dramatically height their prices. the four companies are touring pharmaceuticals, valiant pharmaceuticals, retrofen incorporated and rodelas therapeutics. of these four madam president, touring pharmaceuticals previously led by its founder, martin screly, is the company that has received the most attention. in august of last year, touring acquired the drug derailleur pram. it is considered to be the gold standard for the treatment of toxoplasmosis, a disease resulting from a parasite infection that can be particularly harmful to infants born to infected mothers. despite the fact that derailleur pram has been on the market for 63 years, turnbath the drug and then promptly raised its price from $17.63 to a whopping $750 per pill. the other three companies also dramatically increase the prices of the drugs they acquired from between 300 to 2000%. on november 4th, we have wrote to the companies asking for detailed information regarding their pricing decisions. i ask unanimous consent that our letter be included in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. without objection. around the same time, the touring ceo screly was actively engaged in online postings and other communications, discussing touring business, using what appeared to be his own personal electronic devices. on november 12th of 2015, the aging committee asked the council for touring to take reasonable steps to ensure that any business records on mr. screly's personal devices be properly preserved and produced. touring still has not provided the aging committee with clear assurances that it will do so, notwithstanding the fact that they have told us that mr. screly was, quote, principally involved for touring in all aspects of the transactions and the decisions covered by, quote, our november 4th letter. on december 9th, 2015, we issued a spina for documents to mr. screly in his capacity as ceo, compelling tour to produce the information that had been sought by our november 4th letter. on december 17th, 2015, we learned that mr. screly had been indicted on seven counts unrelated, unrelated to touring and predating the company's corporate existence. the next day, touring announced mr. screly's resignation as ceo, but left unclear whether or not he remained on its board of directors. the fact that the company has not made it clear that it would act to preserve touring business records in its former ceo's possession left the committee deeply concerned that we might not receive all documents relevant to our investigation. therefore, on december 21st of last year, the committee requested that touring provide detailed information on the steps it was taking to preserve these records. once again, however, touring failed to produce an adequate response to our request. constantly, the agent committee issued another document, spina, this one directly to martin screly himself on december 24th. it directed him to produce substantially the same documents sought by the committee's december 9th, spina. by letter dated january 12th, 2016, council informed our committee that mr. screly was categorically invoking the act of production privilege under the pit of amendment to the constitution and was there for refusing to produce any documents in response to the december 24th, spina. so this is the important new development, madam president, that he has chosen in response to a document, spina, for touring documents that are in his personal possession. he has invoked the fifth amendment. to be clear, mr. screly is essentially arguing that the very act of producing and authenticating documents that are seemingly unrelated to the charges filed against him may incriminate him. so the committee has asked him through council for an explanation of the rationale for this argument and we are waiting a response. the committee has troubled by his unsupported invocation given that the touring documents we have requested appear to be unrelated to the charges brought against him. absent of valid justification for the grounds for invoking the fifth amendment, mr. screly's assertion could hinder our important investigation. madam president, our committee is seeking to understand how companies can acquire prescription drugs, drugs that they had nothing to do with the research and development for. drugs that in some cases are more than half a century old and then suddenly impose dramatic price increases on those drugs at the expense of infants, vulnerable seniors and others with devastating diseases, diseases for which in some cases these drugs are the gold standard for treatment. so far, the aging committee has received nearly 20,000 documents over the course of this investigation. but madam president, the documents that the senator from missouri and i are seeking on behalf of the committee likely include information that is essential in order for us to fully understand why this phenomenon is happening and to develop the legislative and regulatory solutions to end this disturbing practice. madam president, i would yield now to the ranking member on the committee on aging my colleague senator mccaskill.