i want to publicly thank sarah for her call. we had a good talk and i very much appreciated her taking the time to call. let me say what an extraordinary honor it is to represent the great state of maine and to know that i will have the opportunity to serve all of maine for the next six years. as you know during our great all of maine bus tour we traveled to of course all 16 counties but visited more than 80 communities put 6,500 miles on the bus and had a wonderful time talking with people in their hometowns their workplaces. it was a wonderful experience and one that i always enjoy. i feel that this is an affirmation of the work that i am doing in washington to fight hard. every day to fight hard every day for the people of maine. and finally let me say that this is an honor that is historical as well. i am the first person since maine directly elected its senators to win a fifth term. so to the people of maine thank you thank you. i will serve you with all my heart. i will work hard for you each and every day and together we will come together to work on the problems and challenges that are facing our state and our country. i am so honored to have that responsibility. thank you so much to the people of maine. thank you. thank you. senator, what was the lowest point of this campaign? why do not i turn down? probably the lowest point was when i saw all the negative aspects attacking my integrity, attacking my husband and knowing that there seemed to be an endless flow of money coming into the state of maine. by people who really did not care about the state of maine but were trying to just flip control of the set. that was very difficult to watch. it was very hard to watch tv. believe me though i am not alone in that. i think everybody of the entire of all the negative advertising. what do you think it is when you open the top of the end? in the end i think it was my reputation for bringing people together and delivering real results that improved the lives of maine's families. whether it was the paycheck protection program which has helped to save 250,000 jobs in the state during the pandemic or whether it was advocating securing funding for a new bridge in madawaska. that is essential to jobs in the paper mill or the new bridges that connect maine and new hampshire or all the work that i have done, who matter but you look at that. the diverse of enforcement tables, shipyard or the waterfront development, and brewer, and bangor, virtually everywhere in the state i could point to a way that i made a difference. i also think that the work that my offices have done over the years helping tens of thousands of manors with problems with federal agencies, whether it was veterans benefits or social security, also was appreciated. finally i would say that i think people are tired of the polarization and really want us to work together. i want to say to those manors who did not vote for me, that i am still your senator and i am going to work to improve life for everyone in the state of maine. what do you think about the margin of victory this time compared to last time you ran a little bit closer? well, we do not know of the certain the final margin but it looks like it is about eight and a half points from the data that i have seen. i think in this environment that is extraordinary given that there was so much money, $100 million in money spent against me and that i have been hammered with negative ads over the past two years. so i am actually delighted with the margin of victory. i exceeded the 50 percent threshold that would have triggered, if i would been under it, ranked choice voting. and most of all, if you look at my support, i carried 14 out of the 16 counties in maine and one of the two that i lost, knox county, was a very narrow plus. so my support was very widespread and that makes me feel really good. the president's visit, do you think they helped you and did you go for him? i do not think the president's visit had an impact on my race. i think it had an impact on his race but i do not think it had had an impact on my race and nice tried there. but i sat up long. i concentrated on my race. as the polls close last night, what were you thinking of the polls close last night? were you confident, julie? well, i will tell you what made me very optimistic was my bus ride all over the state because everywhere i went, i got such a great reception from people coming up to the bus, stopping me on the street, talking to me at the local diner or at a local business. so getting back kind of support, maybe think i must be winning. our polls always showed us in much better position than the public polls. so i was optimistic that i would be able to pull it out. but it really was the response of republicans, independence, democrats, alike as i traveled the state that gave me good confidence that ultimately we would win. but i have got to tell you, i was thrilled by the margin and i was thrilled that communities all across the state supported my free election. thank you everybody. thank you so much. thank you. senator, thank you guys. i just wanted to tell you the president of the u.s. trying to take this picture that nothing has happened last few years. what will change now with the phone sign up in 24 years? i am going to put on a virus bill. you know, the vaca line will be the federal president. how do you respond to that? first you call, i have responded to it about all a thousand times during the qa. but you know, i am taking the same approach that i have always taken. and that is to work at cassia. one of the first calls i got very early this morning was from my friend, democratic senator from west virginia, joe manch, who endorsed my free election. and he called and said, let us get together next week to see if we can hammer out the coronavirus package in a bipartisan way. in get past the partisan politics, that was my first call this morning. and i think that every flex what you have always seen and it is the reason why year after year after year for seven years in a row, i have been ranked as the most bipartisan member of the senate. that is the approach i have always taken. that is the approach i am going to continue to take. thank you everybody. thank you so much. thank you. thank you. thank you.