ka lhofa, ka lhofa lava. if you feel the anger on the lōma natu, if you are a vāio, i am a rica sa moa or if you are a mōnga taūa, or if you are a cili, it is su e ai, maotei lua o lea, a tu puailong nōnga o ta inga. a peole, tell your vāio, in ma toa, fangataa o na sui. pongai o nō o lefā mōi mōi o se fāvāio in a iamā lōsīma mōsīli. emoutinō ai o hataa totulaa fono, maa iāta taū o tangataa. ele sui e fāfōsīi, maa ngātu e situu langa e siliātui taūma, fā tangaina e lefāvāio. ei aile fāvāio, i am a rica sa moa. ei lōnga e sese nga, mai fāvāio nisio territori. mōsī e fātā i ta inga. o lefifiliā o hataa totulaa, maa lefātau tanga o hataa tofanoa pu e lele. e sese lava la taū fangataa mai lemā lō a wau. o le sese nga, o quam, maa levurgian islands, i taūole organic act. mō o nei mōtu e lua, ele e jai sula fāvāio, i fuāia la tonga yō yō inga, pekai, o stete umori unai te stete, i tofumil fāvāio, i fuāfētaui male, to langa wa fāta oto, i fuāvāio unai te stete, i lō aile fūle lalo il mā lō a wau. fāpea le pule, i tofumil fālō tofale. i to langa sese lava lefāia, a mereka sā mō amale unai te stete, i te leāla e mā fuāio unai to langa fāta otoa, i mā fāi unai te mā to langa fāngataa, o nā e mā sani le, conkerese i fāinga, i a fāi umāima, fāo nā sē o wāla e tās, i mā isē waāti nā el mā lō fētra le i unaponei, i a waii, a onga fālō tofale, a wāla male te leo vā engolisui fwanga, i pēi o le sāunia o sē, to langa sānga le mō mō tangataa, te afea ngāima pangātiaa. o merele lenei nāti nā e mā i tāimi wānau, a tu pwa i fuui le fete nāi, i mā nā toa lmā lō te le, mā lō fālō tofale. a onga fābā e fuui a i nei fā fi cauli, e a lai le fātū langa i nā o aiai inga, e a i le fā mō e le fātā aliseni suinga. napa sia la tā o sē nāti o amri kasa mō, sē unā fono wolā tofale pēmā i, e fina nā lō, i suil tofono mō lmā lō, mā lō lō te le le, i nāti sted, i fātā nāi nā i lā to, e faini suinga il fābā aiai o le teartori, i le lō manāi e o normal tapo o sē fin nā lō conkeris. e solo le mū le o mā i suinga, a a tui tangāi itua, e a i suinga ilonga ita tonu o la tā tomā lō, fā lō tofale, mā lā tā tofian nā mali i u nai te sted, nā vē a amri kasa mō, materitori e aiai il fian nā amā te i le afe i vā sē lō, a tui nā tu e mā tā i tu twila, mā tui lā lō il pule fā mā lō le i u nai te sted, i tau sā nā afe i vā sē lō, o manua i lō tau sā nā afe i vā sē lō, fā, nā fā tā sē swains eilanii teritoris, i le afe i vā sē lō lō sfū lima, e aiai se fēngā lō conkeris. o le pule nō o a tui o ili nā vī, aiai il teritori, sē i aiai o le afe i vā sē lō lima sfū tā sē, o le a tui o ili nā vī, o le pule le mā tānga lō, interior, i le aiai sē lō lima sfū tā sē, le aiai o lō yaii te mī nē, aiai o le afe i vā sē lō, o a tui o ili nā vī, aiai se fēngā lō, aiai se fēngā lō, aiai se fēngā lō, aiai se fēngā lō, aiai se fēngā lō, aiai se fēngā lō, o la tui o fina nā lō, mā fātau tā ilo na fāsī nō mānga, i le aiai lō mapea o mā nā o mī a, mō sē fātau tā i nga, i nō o maiai al e tā wā lō nā lō langi, nā lango lango ina le mā tānga lō, o interior, i unai te stete, sē tā mā fēngā, aiai fī aiai amrikasā mō, e tā wā le organic act, nō mēra, fā afe lima sē lō, nā fāia i nā le aiai te tono o lō conteresi, ona o sē tā wō fāngā na fā aia māise, fātau tā i nga, amatā i mā i amrikasā mō, e tā i tā i nā e to fāia to i a sōpo, mā riota, o le fātau tā i nga le aiai nā mapea o mā fā aiai, le fono fāi tula fono fā lō to i fā le aiai amrikasā mō, e sē lā a sānga, ilonga lea mō nā yotātau mōt, nesui to langa lō a le kovana, lea nā to fi en e neimi, mā afe aiai lō o tamā, lea fionga ya aui fātāli pita kormane, mō wā i kovana to fiā, sē tāsia lā a sānga te lea lea nā i numā, lea i ai sōsia o sē kovana na fi nā lō a i lā bautātau tā, nā i a langa lō mā lōsia, ilonga fā wino sē fā vāia, lea nā fā o nā, ya yulai tāsi, tāsia nā afe aiai wa sānga, onos fufitu, o leisifu o ila sānga lea, ilia afe aiai wa sānga, onos fufitu o sē tāsia lā a sānga te lea, o sē fionga mā i lū fā vāia, fi nā i lū o tamā, i afe aiai mā kovana, ea lā il fionga lō tā nā kā pā lōtā, a wē to e to fiā mā lō fēt rāle, i to to nō lea mūai wa sānga te lea, e to o i tītila to o sē fionmoni le te lea naithu langa o le upu moni, e te lea na fisiliniā o nisi tāimi o te fapeane, o afe aia to o i tāsia sānga elua o te tā lia to o i tā pēa, ea to o i tāsia kā nā kā mā lea i u nai te stete, ea ila mā fo aanga, e tā o aitātō o tā nā tā amerika sā moa, pei lāvo kā nā tā mā lea i u nai te stete, e to o sē nisi o aitātō, to o i tā pēalinga nā mā tātō toa oi, tā tō o i te mīta mīta, i lā tā fāia mā lea i u nai te stete, e tāsia lōvel ss sega te lea o lōtū langa tāusia sēne, o tā nā amerika sā moa, e tā o tā nā tā nū aileu ni siti sēne, e lea mā fāia siti sēne, pō tā nā tā nū aileu nai te stete, ea ila pālota, e fi linga al fēt rāle, pe a fāi o lō o aumau i a lāto teori, pe a tō nā tō lā foanga ila mā lō, pe a lōto i fāle, o lei situ a white tātō illa te lir pro kalama a fātū pe aina al fēt rāle, e pe aileu medikate, o nei ss sēne, o fātū langa i nai pui puiai y tātō illa e le, mā lā tā nā nū aileu nā tā fi linga mā lea mā liangam, mā le mā lō fēt rāle, o sō o se suinga al tu, e a lōvel o nā fāt tanga i nai mā o te lūa o rukon keres, mō se fātai tei nga, o lō o yai se fāmsi nga e for linga mā i o tātō fēt rāle, sēmanū wāfā malō si el ssit i sēne i o tātō tā, e mā fēt o nā fēt o nā fēt o langa mā te mō fēt ssit i sēne, e mā tā tō o nā fēt rāt tangi ai o fina ngāloai amerika sā moa lābaia, mā o yai nisi mā i o mā lia ai, il fāmsi nga ala unai tei ssit i, e to sō nisi o anā fēt rāi o nga. o nō o lūtū langa lea, o le a tātō tū līmā tei ssit i sēne, e to mā wai pēlā tā fā sā moa, mā o le fā moe moe leo lā tā fā bāe. tā lofā, tā lofā lābā. i am happy to hear of your focus on our american samoa constitution. it is an important document. this is a great topic for you to study, and i know you will find it interesting. as with any constitution, it is deliberately difficult to change. the reason is that a constitution is meant to be a rock of stability. it ensures that our laws and the rights of people cannot suddenly change direction beyond the confines of what the constitution allows. so, american samoa has a constitution. under it, we have major differences from the other territories. for instance, the way we select our senators in our land tenures system. these are unique to us in all of the nation. in contrast, guam and the virgin islands have an organic act, and neither of them operates with a constitution. however, every u.s. state has its own constitution fitting in within the framework that the u.s. constitution establishes as to what powers belong to the national government and what falls under state and local governments. american samoa really has a one-of-a-kind relationship with the united states. it is special in several ways. that can be a difficulty, because congress tends to look at things with a one-size-fits-all approach. especially as the federal government has developed in the modern era into involvement in local schools and roads, and really most parts of life, particularly providing a safety net for people when they go through a hard time. these are good things that developed over time, but can cause points where the local government and the national government have different ideas. constitution's help resolve those situations by establishing principles that are purposefully slow to change. our american samoa senate has just passed a resolution, saying they would like a change in the current u.s. public law to allow them to pursue potential changes in our territories' constitution in the future without the backstop of congress. change seems to come slowly, but looking back, there have been huge changes in our local government and our relationship with the united states. american samoa became a u.s. territory by deed of session starting in 1900. the matai or chiefs of tutuila seated the island through the united states in 1900. manua followed in 1904, swain's island joined the territory in 1925 by an act of congress. authority was initially placed with the u.s. navy which oversaw the territory until 1951. authority was then transferred to the department of the interior in 1951 where it is currently, and congress has vested the secretary of interior with authority to veto any local law. the people of american samoa can have a lot of influence and self-determination when it is needed. for instance, after world war ii, u.s. department of interior sponsored an attempt to incorporate american samoa, called the organic act no. 4500. this was defeated in congress and accomplishment primarily through the efforts of american samoa's chiefs, led by high-talking chief puiasa sopomariota. it was the efforts of these chiefs that led to the creation of a local legislature, the american samoa fono. that was a huge step for our islands. in time, the navy-appointed governor was replaced first by an appointed one. my father, uifat thali peter coleman, another major step forward to have a governor from our own people. he helped lead the forming of a constitution that started in 1960. the constitution took effect on july 1, 1967, yet another big step. in 1977, a long came another important step. the first constitutional elections were that year, electing my father as governor. by the choice of the people, the voters no longer by appointment of the federal government. in washington, only handfuls of people truly understand most of this. in fact, i am often asked questions. sometimes i am even asked, when will the two samoas merge? i answer when canada merges with the united states. we are called american samoa for a reason. much like the us and canada, we share a lot of customs and language with our nearest neighbor, independent samoa. but they are and will remain a friend and neighbor, not the same country. we are very proud of our ties to the united states. that said, we have one big difference. unlike other us territories who are us citizens, american samoans are us nationals. neither citizens nor nationals of us territories vote in federal elections when residing in their territories, and they pay their taxes locally, not federally. on the flip side, we do participate in most federal funding programs such as medicaid. these differences are designed in large part to protect our land and our culture by our choice and by agreement with the federal government. any fundamental changes to our constitution must be approved by both houses of congress. for instance, there is a court case in which it appears we defeated, but that would have compelled united states citizenship on our people. now, us citizenship can be a wonderful thing, but it absolutely must be a matter of self-determination for american samoa. our people have to make that decision for themselves. so far, the us courts have agreed to this principle in several major rulings. because of this, we look forward to a future that maintains fasamoa and that is part of the purpose of our constitution. enjoy your day learning about our constitution. soy fua, ma'iamanwea.