content all right, welcome to bringing it back to the people. i am andrea tufola, representative for district 43, the state house of representatives, and i am here with amara marta, who is also a congresswoman from american samoa, just recently elected, and we are going to talk about some of the things that she is been going through as a congresswoman and see how some of that ties into what we are doing here in hawaii, some of the things that we have in common is that we are both newly elected samoa and women. and so i want this congresswoman to basically explain to us a little bit about her background and how she got into the congress. so the things that happened was that the prison held your seat prior to you after 26 years. that is right. and so how hard was it for you to win this election? it was very difficult. what we did was we conducted a very grassroots campaign, and what that meant was that we took the campaign and do every village, knocked on every door, climbed up and down mountains, knocked chaste and bitten by dogs. but another interesting aspect of it was that there were actually nine candidates running. so in addition to the 13-term income, there was also on ballot a two-term government plus six other candidates and then yourself. so it made particularly tough. but god blessed us on the next day. and fully intent to not disappoint the people. of all the people who were running, how many of them are female? there were three females, including myself. and coming from a society where you come from, where it is kind of male dominated or you know, leadership, how did the people take that? and why do you think their presence was towards a female someone who would be represented this time around? well, when i talked to my father about this, and a year ago, about wanting to run for public office, he looked at me and he said, well, it is going to be tough. it is going to take a very long time, probably 20 years. and as it turns out, that is how long it took for me to get in. see, i first started running in 1994. really, i have run every two years for congress since then. after 10 tries, i was ready to hang it up. but my supporters were just warming up. and so we decided to give it another go around. and on the level to try, we were victorious. wow. wow. that kind of surprised me because i did not know that that had happened. trying 11 times, i think here on how many people tried two, three times, and then they stopped. you know, they think maybe it is not their time for me. it was the very first time i had ever run. but my predecessor had held the seat for eight years. and in hawaii, once you get in one election, it is so hard to lose your seat because of name recognition, because of just everyone kind of wanting the same person, the same status quo, whatever is being offered. and in samoa, they must have really wanted a change. because 26 years of having the same person. so what is going on in american samoa that you think kind of generated that desire for a change? well, i do think that the young people are waking up. part of it is also the internet. and right now we are laying the fiber optic cable in the outer islands of ophor, seman, tauro. and that means the communications will really explode. it was also the use of social media. many, many samoans like facebook and all of this. we do not have access to the kind of campaign tools that are available up here. as you know, we have one weekly newspaper, in other words, one daily. and then one that comes out three times a week, and it is online. the one tv station is owned by the government. so you cannot ever use it for campaign campaigns. and then there is radio, which is fairly expensive. but what we did was we combined some state-side tactics along with cultural resources. and that is how we went ahead. but amazing, congratulations. i think for me, i had the same experience as her where you just have to get really grassroots when you are trying to run for office. if you really want to leverage the people, you have to go out there and be with the people and talk to the people. and i am glad that now they have some social media. but regardless of social media, the face-to-face contact is really important. because the people really know that you care about them. and so what is one of the things that you have pushed for since you have been elected? well, we need better help in the area of health, education, and then jobs. we have quite a few unemployed people. and that is the result of our can-wee chicken of the sea closing up shop in 2009, the day after a killer tsunami hit us. so all in one fell swoop. three thousand people were out of work. so jobs are extremely important right now. our basic needs are needs that are taken for granted here in hawaii, as well as the rest of the states. these are things that people have been getting up here for a long time. we are still struggling to improve our infrastructure, try to improve the disparity between american samoan students in education. these are the ones in the states. so that is what we have been working very hard on. as far as my legislative agenda, these are just six little things that are based on what i talk to at the grassroots level. people said that this was important to them. and so we have already started to introduce legislation to that effect. it is been really, really exciting. i do not vote on house 4. but that is not really important because i remember the house republican conference, which as you know is a formal assembly of republican members. and all of the major pieces of legislation that are going to reach the house 4, get ironed out and discussed in the house republican conference. we were just warming up. good, good, i am glad. glad to hear that. in american samoan, you guys also have a community college as you spoke about education. so how is the american samoan community college going? and how are you looking to improve it for the people? yes, absolutely. we lost our upward-bound program and little things like that help our youngsters, especially those who are, they could be the first person going to college in that particular family. so we have a four-year college in terms of you can get a bachelor's degree in education, but it is a two-year college for all other courses. and one of your things is also that you grew up here in hawaii. am i right? did you go to high school here? i did grow up here, but i went to high school here at sacred hearts and i am a kid. and with a special arrangement, i was able to board at sacred hearts company one and then dance with drive me to come here. for all of you just tuning in, this is congresswoman almata ray lagam. and she is just recently elected to congress. but what i am mentioning here is that for many of the samoans, you can correct me if i am wrong. coming to high school here in hawaii is an opportunity that many of them take. and so she was able to attend sacred hearts. that is right. and so she does have some hawaii connections. so coming here to hawaii since you did your high school years here, how do you see it different or the same as what you have to do in american samoan? it was quite a incarceration process for me. and i missed back home. i never thought that i would really go much beyond education in the village here. but my parents had some other things in mind. and they wanted me to broaden my horizons. so the first step was to come here at sacred hearts again. very blessed. i grew up with the hallock family and they lived next to us in hawaii. and they went to punehul. and i always thought that it was different because their parents still worked in samoa. and they were still running the tune of business and everything. and their kids were just coming here for high school. and as soon as they finished, they went back to samoa. but i see it as an opportunity, as you said, to broaden the horizon for the young people. and one of the things that she also did was that she appealed to the young people in this past election where she was successful. so what is the voter percentage out in samoa? a lot of people get out in vote. not so many. it is actually fairly high. in the last election, i would say the turnout was 85%. certainly a lot more than in the united states. that is very high. and i do not know if you know the specific breakdown. but how many young people came out in vote? were you guys able to do this spread of ages? or is it mostly older folks that are voting? quite a few of them were young people. many of them voted for the first time. so part of our grassroots effort was we had to go reach out to them. there are young tongue-ends. when you were born in american samoa, you were us national, whether you are samoa or not. and we would go out into the villages and befriend them and bring them in to get them registered and so forth and so on. and it just kind of took off. i think the young people in american samoa are looking for hope. they are looking for a better future and perhaps their parents are having. yeah, yeah. it is very exciting because here in hawaii we are struggling trying to get people to get out in vote. and i am not sure if it is the same as samoa, but here i think that we really had a lack of leadership. now when i say that, i do not mean that we do not have leaders. we have leaders all over the place, but people can really inspire people and let them know that something will actually happen. when you vote, something might happen. i might listen to you and i think that one of the pieces of legislation you just put forward might give people that hope. can you explain to us about your bill, about banking, that might help the people in samoa? well, it is a... ...checks that come in from off-violent or held by the bank for 21 days. and a lot of times people are trying to make the finances fit. that is a real hardship. so i hope to get that all done in the past, send it in. and that would be president saundering to roll before too long. and we feel it as though our chances are quite good. it is exciting because even though it sounds like maybe it is something small, it is something that is going to affect every person in samoa. that is right. and that is the kind of legislation that we need to pass is the ones that are going to help people in their everyday struggles. not in the struggles that are in five or ten years, but the struggles we have every day. one of the things she brought up is that it is almost like fixing a pothole. for the people in hawaii, some of the stuff that i am doing does not take legislation to fix traffic or to help them with the commute home. and this is what people are looking for. the looking for leaders that are going to help them get through their everyday struggles and know that their elected officials are listening to them. and that is something very important that both she and i agree on is that the people's voices need to be heard and that is why we are grassroots. that is why we are talking to the people because we wanted to hear what they had to say about how we could make our communities better. so, congresswoman, is there anything else you would like to share with us as far as your new journey in the us, congress? how has it felt? oh, it is great. and i look forward to continuing to work with you. and i am just very, very excited and i see a great right future ahead for you. and i am all the best. thank you. thank you so much for tuning in. bringing it back to the people for all you saw moons out there for the title of the lava will be back and hopefully she and i will do more things together. other huh?