i am pleased to join you today with an update for the western caucus. i am proud to represent american samoa, a beautiful group of seven islands in the pacific ocean. we may not be the first place you think of in the western caucus. i joined this caucus not just because we are thousands of miles to the west of most of the country, but because of shared interests and priorities. for instance, we have two rainy seasons, so we are not as likely to see a furious wildfire like those causing so much damage this year in the western u.s. instead, our highly trained teams of expert firefighters went in during those efforts. when the firebell rings, that is what firefighters do. they respond and wherever they are from, we are proud of them all. like other parts of the west, we in american samoa have beautiful places and coastlines, including national park and monument areas that cover both sea and land. very proud of the work the western caucus has put into these issues and the leadership of so many of my colleagues. in each of our districts, our monument area might look a little different from another place, but there are important underlying issues that are the same. for instance, is there good local input from the people who know the area best? we are working together in congress to ensure state, local and territorial input for monument decisions. that is just common sense. protecting beautiful places does not have to cause harm to nearby small businesses. that is why a bureaucracy in washington, d.c. should not be the only one with a voice. in american samoa, decisions in washington about a marine monument placed our traditional fishing grounds and waters off limits, despite generations of use. fishing is part of our heritage and fassamoa, our special way of life. we are working together so that congress must be consulted on future marine monument decisions so the people living there are truly represented, just as the country's founders intended. that is just a small part of what the western caucus is all about, and that is why we work together in congress to keep these beautiful places, mountains, deserts and islands. not only beautiful, but also free, prosperous, and respectful of our heritage. thank you.