mr. president. the senator from colorado. mr. president, thank you. i would like to thank my neighbor, the senator from new mexico, for his kind words and his leadership on this issue. i have been privileged to have the chance to co-sponsor a constitutional amendment that would, i think respond very nicely to the things that he hears from his constituents. as i hear from mine, whether republicans, democrats, or independent voters, i also want to thank the senator from rhode island, senator whitehouse, tonight for organizing this for his leadership over these many months. it is quarter past 8 p.m. tonight in washington dc, as we debate this bill. actually, we are not debating the bill because we were not even allowed to move to a debate on the bill. i cannot tell you the number of times we have not been able to do that. i am often struck by the fact that i think the founding fathers would have wanted us to debate all these bills. and to vote up or down on each one of these bills and to go home and explain to our constituents why we voted one way or why we voted another way. but here we are not technically debating a bill once again, because we have not even been able to move on to a piece of legislation that historically, and i hope again, will become bipartisan. as i mentioned, mr. president, it is quarter past 8 here at home in colorado. it is quarter past 6. it is dinner time in colorado. families are sitting around. i hope they are. i know they are. having dinner with their loved ones. much as i did when i was a boy. and i can remember my parents who followed public affairs closely. they would turn on the evening news every night about this time, and walter cronkite would be on the television. and i remember the ads, as you probably do, the center for new mexico, were ads for things like gerritol, were things that cleaned your dentures. i remember one ad in particular, every single night it would come on. i never could believe they could get the cherry stains out of those pearls. but every single night, they were able to do it. and if there was a political ad on television, the candidate had to get on that ad at the end and say, my name is michael bennett. my name is jeff merkley. my name is tom udall or dick durburn or harry reid or sheldon white house. and i approved that message. that is what we saw when i was a child. tonight, families all over my state, which is a swing state in this country, are going to have to endure advertisement after advertisement after advertisement that are not advertising those consumer products i described earlier. but are advocating for candidates and political ideas. and they are all going to have or many of them will have phony names. committee for a strong america or tall children or strong teeth is what they are going to see. but now because of what the supreme court ruling did, they cannot even find out if they wanted to who is donated to those fake committees in many cases. now, i wanted to start out tonight, mr. president, by making clear what is not an issue with this bill. this is not a constitutional question that we are debating here tonight. there is not a question that disclosure and disclaimer, which this bill does not even do. i will come back to that. disclosure is constitutional. eight of nine supreme court justices have said not only that it is constitutional, well, they have said it is constitutional, but some have said that is a desired result. here is justice scalia. requiring people to stand up in public for their political acts, foster civic courage without which democracy is doomed. from my part, i do not look forward to a society which thanks to the supreme court, campaigns anonymously, and even exercises the direct democracy of initiative and referendum, hidden from public scrutiny and protected from the accountability of criticism, the accountability of criticism in the justice's words. this does not resemble the home of the brave. this does not resemble the home of the brave. it takes courage to put your name on something. it takes courage to stand for something that is unpopular. it does not take a lot of courage to let somebody use your money in a way that keeps you completely anonymous and imposes something on families in our states, who are trying to make a fundamental american decision to vote in a democracy. that does not take courage. that is the point justice scalia was making, because justice scalia, i believe, thought the congress would do its job and enact what is constitutional. required disclosure. required disclaimer. this issue is one that is been well understood in this country since its founding. here's patrick henry in 1788. the liberties of a people never were. never were. nor ever will be. secure when the transactions of their rulers may be concealed from them. accountability and transparency. that is what this legislation is about, and it is emphatically constitutional. so if somebody comes and tells you that this is about the constitution, tell them that eight of nine supreme court justices have already ruled on this question. they have already ruled that what is in the content of this act is constitutional. now what is happening out there is a consequence of a decision that was made by the supreme court on the one hand and the failure of the congress to act in a timely manner on the other hand. well, these super pacs have come into being. these anonymous folks are able to give money. there is one that owns a casino in las vegas. and he is actually given more money to super pacs in 2012 than anybody else in the country. at least that is what my understanding. but to him, this is chunk change. so far he is given 35 million. he says he is going to give more than that. that is a lot of money to most people. it is not a lot of money to this guy because he has a net worth of $24.9 billion. so we did some math at home and what we figured out was that in colorado or in america, i guess, in the us, the average family's net worth is roughly $77,000. that is their net worth. and so if they were to spend the same percentage of their net worth that this one casino owner in las vegas has spent of his net worth, that would be about $108. which is about what people spend a week on groceries to make in this kind of money. to them, that would be a little bit of a sacrifice, i guess, $108. but if they knew they could control the outcome of elections in state after state after state, if they could influence the election of the very president of the united states by spending .0001 of their net worth $108, they might do it. this is pocket change for him. these numbers get so big, it is hard sometimes to think about what it means. that net worth, this one person's net worth is 332,000 times the net worth of our average family. 332,000 times. think about it this way, mr. president. and forget about this for a second. think about this. the median household income in colorado is roughly $56,000. that is what it is. it is roughly $56,000. a family earning $56,000 in colorado. every year, year in and year out, who never paid any taxes, they are probably paying a higher rate by the way than this guy in las vegas, but who never paid any taxes, who never spent one penny of their salary. $56,000 a year, year in and year out and did not spend a nickel of it. they would have to do that for 441,000 years before it added up to what this guy has. just to give you a sense of perspective, human beings made their appearance on this planet 200,000 years ago. half. less than that. of what it would take for this diligent and prudent family to raise what has been, what this fellow is worth, it gives you a sense of the order of magnitude. and as some of my colleagues have said, one of the things that is really interesting about the super pac phenomena is it is a very small group of very wealthy people that are contributing to it. it is not most corporations. it is not most people that have some means. this is a tiny, tiny group of people that are committed to a set of political outcomes and their economic interests that i am not sure are in the same interest of most of the folks that live in my state. and again, we are not saying they cannot do it. this bill does not say they cannot do it. this bill just says if you are going to do it, you need to tell us who you are. we want to know who you are. step up and say why it is you are doing what you are doing. it is not surprising, by the way, that this problem has become enormous since this decision was made. in 2006, 1% of donors were undisclosed. that was it. that was it. 1%. 99% were disclosed. 1% was not disclosed. today, actually, it is even worse today. this is 2010. a year i was running and a year when colorado something were outside money and my, i believe, more on the television than anybody should deserve to see. more outside money than any state in the united states of america. 44% of the money that was spent was not disclosed. the identity of the people that gave the money was not disclosed. that is half virtually of what was spent and it is going to be worse this year. it is not surprising and everybody who is been a parent would know this intuitively. i have three daughters that are 12, 11, and 7, and believe me, there is nothing mysterious about this. not surprisingly, as this spending has become more anonymous, the advertising has become more negative. one of my kids thinks they can get away with doing something negative to one of their sisters, which is not often, but it happens. and they think they can get away with it without anybody catching. they are a lot more likely to do it than if they know somebody's watching. the senator has utilized 10 minutes. i would ask for an additional two minutes, mr. president. without objection. thank you, mr. president. and so you can see here that the proportion of positive advertising here much, much higher than negative. today, it is almost entirely negative. and between the hours of 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. tonight in the state of colorado and across the united states of america, those graphs are going to be born up by negative ad after negative ad after negative ad. and listen, i will close with this, mr. president. i will close with this. we face enormous structural issues in the economy in this country. and we face them for a while, and we are facing them again. because as you can see from this chart, gdp growth, our economic output, has decoupled from wage growth and job growth. that is what is happening in the united states. and the job of this congress, the job of this administration, and our generation's job is to re-couple those so that we have a rising middle class in this country. and that is what we should be spending our time on, as we think about reforming our tax code and our regulatory code and our statute books. but there are some folks around that are not necessarily all that interested in that, because the current system works pretty well for them. i cannot tell you the number of times i have heard people say in this chamber that the government should not pick winners and losers. and that is really easy when you are on the winning side to say that. we ought to have a set of rules in this country that are responsive to the needs of the vast majority of american people, whether republicans, democrats, independents, who together, no matter where they are in the economic spectrum, all want essentially the same thing, which is to make sure that we are not the first generation of americans to lead less opportunity, not more, to the people that are coming after us. i believe that anybody that wants to come to that debate, anybody that wants to play in that game is welcome, but they ought to tell us who they are. and with that mr. president, i will yield the floor, and i see the center of familial annoyance here and look forward to his remarks.