welcome everyone. thank you so much for being here. i want to thank everybody who is watching at home and of course our panelists here who are joining us for a very important conversation. i am gifford senior advisor ryan bussey. i have the honor of sharing the virtual stage. with colorado's incumbent senior senator michael bennett who i respect a great deal. senator bennett is running for re-election and this fall obviously in november and gifford's pack is very very proud to endorse him and his campaign. i am also joined by victor and como, the president of colorado chapter of gifford's gun owners for safety gun safety and a fellow gun owners for safety member emily engelhopp. we are here to discuss why addressing gun violence is so important and of course why senator bennett is the best candidate on the ballot. this november to continue advancing all of our important gun safety priorities in washington. before we get into this i would like to share just a little bit more about senator bennett. he is represented colorado in the united states senate since 2009 and over the course of that career he is garnered a reputation for working with both republicans and democrats to address some of our most urgent issues and challenges in our nation. he is obviously also very dedicated to reducing the devastating impacts of gun violence and the dangerous nexus between domestic violence and guns and senator bennett ran for president in 2020. i think a lot of us and certainly me have been very invigorated and impassioned by his straightforward talk and his speeches on the floor that they have been great. many previously served as a superintendent of the denver public schools and while he is not trying to make the world a better place in tackling the issues of the day in dc he lives in denver with his wife and his three daughters there. senator bennett, hello thanks so much for being here. i wanted to feel like to introduce yourself. errath, thanks ryan. i am really grateful to be here and obviously incredibly grateful for the endorsement the gifford's endorsement. it means a lot. it means a lot to me and i just thank you for what you are doing with ryan and vic and emily or i am sorry, would vic and emily are doing to hear in colorado and obviously thanks to gabby for everything she is doing. my oldest daughter, it is hard to believe this. she was she was born the year after columbine. you know, she is now she is now 22 years old and all of my three daughters as a result of that have grown up in a world that my generation did not grow up and scared to go to school because of what happens every several months it seems in this country. i certainly felt that as a parent but also as you mentioned is as a superintendent of the denver public schools and i came to believe that i have come to believe that our parents deserve to live in a country where they know their parents care enough about them to actually do something about done violence. that is why this organization is so incredibly important and i think if we are going to do anything about it, it is going to take a movement. the one we have to build door to door house to house by following the example of the people on this call and ryan i have absolutely no doubt that if we do that we can fix our broken government in washington and make progress on these issues. well, thank you so much senator. i personally have two boys in junior high and high school now and we worry every day about them and they worry about themselves too. so i really appreciate your dedication and obviously we are at giffords we are very lucky to have an inspirational leader who has shown tremendous courage standing up and i would like you to introduce everyone to our founder gabby giffords. gabby is just a tremendous inspiration. i am gabby giffords. i am from tucson, arizona. january 8th 2011 changed my life forever. i was a congresswoman. i was shot in my head while meeting with my constituents. i could not walk. i could not talk. i have watched gun violence to scoy too many lives. after shooting at sandy hook elementary school i have said, enough is enough. i founded a group called giffords. we are on a mission to end gun violence. thank you so much gabby. for all of us who are lucky enough to know and be around gabby she is just a tremendous inspiration and what you cannot help but be struck by her hope and her dedication to bring a brighter tomorrow. and gabby not going to let you off the hook. i wonder if you could maybe do a bit more of your inspiration magic here and say some words about that. i know the darkest of days. days of pain and uncertain recovery. but good fronted by despair of someone's hope. confronted by paralysis and asthasia i respond with grit and determination. i put one foot in from the other. i found one word and then i found another. my recovery is a daily fight. but by you make me stronger. words once came easily. the day i struggle to speak. but i have not lost my voice. american needs. all us to speak out. even when you have to fight to find the words. i am also in a second fight. the fight to stop gun violence. it is also a fight forged by tragedies and pain. a fight that can change lives. we are at a crossroads. we can let the children continue. or we can act. we can protect our families, our future. we can vote. we can be on the rights of history. please join us in this fight. thank you very much. so thanks. we are all inspired by gabby every day and we are very lucky to have her. and i would like to introduce now to the other panelists here today. people that work with a giffords, vick mncomo and emily engelhopp. i would like them to introduce themselves. sure. thank you, ryan. senator bennett. thank you so much for the opportunity. gabby, it is always an inspiration to hear you talk. and you are one of the reasons why i think many of us are here doing what it is that we are doing. my name is vick mncomo. i am the president from the colorado gun owners for safety chapter here in denver. i spent 21 years in the united states military. i am a father. i am a hunter. because he will carry proud sportsmen. my children, both boys, have had a firearm in their hands since they were able to be begun at four or five. and really enjoy the sports of having the ability to use firearms. thank you very much. thank you, vick. emily. thank you, ryan. thank you, senator bennett. my name is emily engelhopp. and i am a member of giffords gun owners for safety. i grew up hunting in wisconsin and moved to colorado about 10 years ago. and i am inspired by gabby giffords' strength and her courage and her ability to turn tragedy into triumph. and i am confident that we will be successful in continuing to reduce gun violence. i came to giffords as a nurse and a concerned aunt. i am tired of the constant gun violence. and it was really important to me that my voice as a gun owner was heard. i do not agree with the nra and the gun industry's rhetoric. and so many of you watching today have stories of how gun violence has affected your own lives. and i encourage you to continue to use your voice and your strengths to help us end gun violence. thanks, ryan. thank you both, vick and emily. it is great that you are standing up and offering your voices. and we will come back and chat with you in a few minutes about your experiences and what you are doing. but we are going to show now a quick video highlighting a group that giffords has established and that you are both working hard on giffords gun owners for safety and the work that everyone is doing to organize gun owners like both of you to advocate for common sense. i am proud to be one of those gun owners who believes that common sense and responsibility must go hand in hand with gun ownership. so let us have a look at that video. i am a gun owner. i am a gun owner. i am a gun owner and we are committed to gun safety. gun ownership is woven into our history as a country. a fundamental right for generations of people from all backgrounds and political affiliations. giffords gun owners for safety, unites a community of hunters, sports shooters and collectors who understand the need for common sense gun laws to help keep us all safe. as gun owners, we value the right to own a gun and also understand our responsibility in ensuring all guns are used and stored properly. it is time to use our voice to push for solutions that will save lives and preserve our rights. we believe the second amendment is an important right. we also believe our community should be safer from gun violence. if you only listen to the corporate gun lobby or partisan politicians, you would think these two values are at odds. but gun owners from all 50 states are joining together to say that gun rights and gun safety go hand in hand. responsible gun owners across the country are showing that we are not as divided as we seem. as responsible gun owner, i am committed to gun safety. join us. join us. join us in the fight for gun safety. thanks so much. it is great to see gun owners coming together to advocate for responsible gun ownership. i did not say this on the lead-in. but i was a firearms executive in the industry for 25 years. i gave up a career that i thought would be my dream career. i have written a book and sometimes doing this work means that we have difficult conversations and then we have heavy lifts that people like vic and emily inspire me along with obviously gavis leadership. now more than ever, it is important that responsible gun owners like what you just saw in the video and what we are speaking about here today take action and we encourage action on pivotal legislation before congress. the senate is expected to consider reauthorization of the violence against women acts very soon. this would address important loopholes that allow perpetrators of domestic violence to access firearms, something i think we can all agree is a very bad thing. we need to encourage all our legislators and senator bennett is certainly on board here to support this life-saving legislation. i am going to ask you to text something here in just a second so you might want to grab a piece of paper or your phone and note this down. but if you could help us fight to win this effort. text vawa as in violence against women's act vawa to 3, 4, 1, 3, 1 and we will rattle that off again near the end of the call here but we would we would love to have you do that and help us join. now we are going to go to the man of the hour here, senator bennett. senator, i would like to start by asking you, you know during your time in the senate you have been a champion for many things including enacting universal background checks and closing the loopholes that we just talked about that the violence against women act would close unfortunately even though these are very common sense and responsible policies they have been blocked every single time by your republican colleagues on the other side of the aisle and i wondered if you could talk a bit now about how policies like this would help reduce gun violence across our country and how important that is to you and additionally if you are reelected maybe what or some of your other priorities in this policy realm that you would like to see considered and and help get passed. so thanks you know what ryan like you i live in a western state and here in colorado we have actually passed laws around universal background checks and extreme risk protection orders just to take that as an example which is you know what the violence against women act in part is about and and unfortunately the reason why we had to pass these laws or we passed these laws is that colorado has had too many instances of gun violence from columbine to the movie theater in aurora and a lot of other and and boulder most recently and what i know from having worked on those initiatives is that they have made a difference and the background checks alone you know every year there are a few people of small percentage of people that that try to buy gun in colorado and they are prevented from doing it but they are domestic abusers there are people that have committed violent felonies it is impossible to argue that colorado is not safer with those folks not having access to firearms and that is why i believe it is so important for us to pass this at the national level i mean it is one thing for colorado to do it but it it it is really important that the nation does it so you have the benefit of a national approach to this work and if colorado a western state can do it there is absolutely no excuse for the united states congress not doing it and so in the senate when when i have the chance to go back there i am going to continue to fight to pass common sense universal background checks i think it is important to ban high capacity magazines which we have done here in colorado and and we finally and finally get weapons of war out of our communities and and in addition to all of that we need to address the epidemic crisis of mental health in this country but that alone is not going to address issues around gun violence we need to address it directly and i am looking forward the chance to fight for that common sense legislation that i know i can defend in democratic republican and independent parts of my state of colorado and if i can do it here others can do it in other parts of this country well thank you so much senator i am going to correct you on one thing you said if you get to go back we are here today we are going to we are going to make sure it is when you go back i appreciate that i know it is a i know it is a tough race and we all need to stand up and do our part but it is critical we are we are going to make sure that happens thank you um vic you are there in colorado you have heard the senator touch on these issues you have been personally engaged you have stood up i wondered if you could talk about what got you involved what inspires you where are you doing this maybe tell us a little bit about what is going on in your life and why this is important absolutely thanks ryan so you know i retired from the military after 21 years of service as a combat medic which is a corpsman in the navy when i left the service i became very disenfranchised with the amount of gun violence that i was seeing on the streets of america and you know so more so was extremely saddened with the number of veteran suicides that were occurring especially when they were using a firearm often when someone thinks about gun violence they think about a mass shooting but as the senator alluded gun violence takes many forms domestic abuse street crimes and as i mentioned before suicides and unfortunately veterans are committing suicide at an alarming rate especially when they are using firearms nearly 6,000 veterans commit suicide every year and over the last 10 years that is been 60,000 veterans that is more veterans killed by suicide than killed in action from all the wars combined since vietnam so you asked me what piece of legislation really got me involved to fight against gun violence i would have to say the extreme risk protection order or otherwise known as the red flag law this is a provision where if it allows a temporary removal of a firearm if someone is displaying a potential harm to themselves or to others you know really on more than one occasion my phone has rang and on the other end there is a veteran in crisis and before the red flag laws in colorado there was no place for them to turn i was the one that was taken their firearms i was the one driving them to the hospital i was the one who answered their call but with 60,000 veterans dead from suicide over the last 10 years how many of those phone calls would never answer so that is what motivated me to be a champion to fight against gun violence well vic you know amazing and thanks for standing up emily you have heard the senator you have heard vic you are you are there in colorado you are a nurse you grew up in a hunting family and i wondered if you could talk about the impacts this issue has had on you and your patients and your everyday life thank you right so many of my patients are affected by gun violence in different ways so some are survivors of gunshot wounds and endure the trauma and the complications from those injuries themselves and then others are seeking help with ptsd depression anxiety from being involved in shootings and then some are looking for advice on how to keep their children safe and then others are dealing with just tremendous amounts of grief and stress from losing a loved one or a family member to gun violence so as a nurse while helping these patients we we really follow two fundamental principles and that first one is safety we continuously strive to provide the safest care for our patients every day and this can center around how to keep your guns safe in your own home if you have young children or how to keep guns away from yourself or other loved ones when they are struggling with suicidal or perhaps homicidal thoughts or plans and a second principle we always like to follow is evidence-based interventions and just as with the covid pandemic our interventions are are changing as the research is updated and i think it is really important to pass legislation to provide funding for gun violence prevention and research so as frontline healthcare workers we can provide those interventions to patients and to increase the safety in our community you know i remember being a new nurse and i was caring for a 14-year-old who had survived survived a self-inflicted gunshot wound he did not have a very good support system and i felt incredibly helpless at the time because i did not know what resources were available to him and his family to help him cope through that so i want to see those tools provided to frontline healthcare workers and as we develop more gun violence interruption strategies and programs in our communities we will be able to see decrease in gun violence thank you thank you so much emily for doing the work and leading by example being here with us today obviously but of course just doing this in your everyday life it is really important um senator you have heard from two of your constituents um they are on our panel here about while why they are motivated by this and and what roll this plays in the communities of colorado um and i know we all know it is incumbent on our leaders to find the same sort of courage to act on this issue many folks elected officials on the other side of the aisle including some of your extreme republican opponents they claim to be pro-trump warriors they often say that this is an all-or-nothing game that we cannot respect the second amendment that we cannot that we cannot be pro-gun we cannot be somebody like vic who values guns self-defense hunting and shooting with his kids and also support responsible common sense legislation at the same time um somebody like me i obviously i ardently believe that is not true but i wondered if you could speak to your experience as as somebody who i think believes as we do that being pro-gun also means we must be pro-responsibility and and do both things at the same time yeah and ryan i think i think most people believe that my state as i mentioned is in the state we are vic and emily live we are about a third a third a third democrat republican and independent we have got a very diverse uh electorate here and um the majority of people here support the kind of legislation that we are talking about and they understand that the second amendment protects the rights of law-abiding citizens to bear our arms but that there are also reasonable limits and and these include things like universal background checks which we know are constitutional red flag laws which we know are constitutional limits limits on magazines which we know are constitutional i am not just saying that i know that because courts have looked at these questions but you know on the absolutist question ryan i have talked about this on the floor of the senate before after one of these shootings i remember some a radio talk show host saying that this was just the price of freedom and and what i said on the floor was what a terrible thing to to accept for our kids and for for our grandkids the idea that that somehow the founders of this country you know created a set of a constitution that would um not allow us to prevent our children being from being terrorized by gun violence in their schools or in their communities and that is not what the constitution says that is not what the second amendment says we can put reasonable restrictions on guns and this absolutist position just does not hold any water with the constitution does not hold any water politically and if you find yourself saying that is just the price of freedom i think that is just saying we are giving up on our responsibility as citizens in this democratic republic we need to do better than that that is in some ways i think white gaby gifords is such an inspiration to me is she has taken this tragedy that she suffered herself while she was just trying to serve the public in arizona and she is become a warrior uh to make this country a safer place and i believe she is fighting on behalf of the constitution i think she is fighting on behalf of the constitutional rights of every single american i am proud to have the chance to support her work well thank you so much we are obviously proud to have you fighting in the senate for responsibility in common sense and i personally like to remind everybody that one of the founding fathers john adams said our constitution was made for immoral people and it is wholly inadequate to the government of any other in other words you know all of this stuff without responsibility is not going to work so obviously it is common sense laws and common sense views like yours that need to prevail and we need to have you there so vec you have you have been through these battles and you are volunteering and i think you probably often hear things like the nra represents all gun owners meaning they represent you and they represent me and you know that the nra spends millions of dollars to try to um you know spread conspiracy theory and hatred and um i wonder what you might say about uh when does it mean who says the nra speaks for you or for all gun owners thank you ryan you know the nra and the gun industry quietly change the narrative on how america's perceives gun ownership early on they realize that by invoking fear pointing at our differences spreading distress among the social economic class is allowed for an opportunity to radicalize gun ownership gun ownership has now become one's identity versus a tool for hunting or sports shooting i often hear people say well you know that that that law will not make a difference in this area or that law would never have changed the situation that occurred this time and and and though that might be true what we are about what this organization is about it is about safety gun safety safety in itself is not a cure it is it is an art it is an art and looking what is working applying the best industry standards for the greater good of society it is about creating a responsible culture where we identify what our shortcomings are and then we fix it the nra and the gun legislators have tainted our ability to make the right decisions as a society so i can say this i believe in the second nut and i think we all do especially for gun owner the nra does not speak for me i alone speak for myself you know i have a moral compass i have a duty and a responsibility as a gun owner not only to ensure that i am safe but to ensure that others are safe as well so when it comes to enacting gun safety legislation nra has this notion that you indicated of no compromise well with thousands dying every year to gun violence that is no longer a viable viable position the pendulum can shift left to right in any way but if we as gun owners want to continue the sport that we like and utilizing the firearms that we like there has to be a compromise somewhere and it is not a compromise the second amendment it is a compromise to ensure that they are safety so that is why it is so important to reelect and elect officials that see gun violence as an epidemic and are willing to make a change so i can honestly say my friend senator bennett has a long history in the fight against gun violence so let us reelect senator bennett let him continue to fight against a gun violence and let us make this happen thanks big i am with you i am thinking senator bennett probably is with you responsibility does does not preclude us from you know it does not mean we are anti gun when we are pro-responsibility those two are hand in hand they are intertwined and i appreciate you standing up and saying the truth and doing it passionately thanks emily i wonder if you have anything to add here before i am gonna i am gonna hand it back over to senator bennett here in a month but but the tragedies that you see every day how does it affect your family your work i know you have spoken about that a little bit but why do we need to reelect senator bennett and how do you think it impacts people's day-to-day lives including yours thank you you know my nieces are growing up in a culture that is beginning to normalize gun violence children are learning active shooter drills in a place that is supposed to be their safe haven where they can grow and learn and experience not to be scared of bullets you know teachers should be armed with knowledge and training on how to recognize and provide help and resources to trouble students and their parents and this constant providing tertiary responses to gun violence such as first aid and you know emergency treatment in the hospitals and then sympathy for the families affected by the loss of a loved one we have to work on prevention strategies you know colorado has recently implemented an office of gun violence prevention through the department of public health and environment and i would love to see that replicated in other states as well so we as gun owners we must use our voices by voting for senators that are passionate about gun violence prevention and able to not only introduce but pass needed legislation which senator bennett has proven he can do so it is time to reelect a senator that listens to the will of the people and has the courage to just ignore the gun lobby and work to protect the community and as vick had said too as gun owners we know that the gun safety laws and the second amendment are not at odds the second amendment can be respected and we can improve safety through this legislative process you know according to gallup polls nurses have been voted the most trusted profession for the last 20 years and i have to go through a background check to be a nurse so it is about time we pass universal background checks to own a gun and senator bennett obviously supports that step so therefore i am choosing to support senator bennett so thank you thanks so much emily and thanks i know nursing has not been the easiest thing to tackle the last couple years so thank you for being here and thank you for doing the work you do every day we are all indebted senator bennett sadly your constituents have been on the front lines of some very horrendous shootings of course columbine 1999 a shooting that happened without universal background checks and now all those years later as you noted we still do not have universal background checks boulder aurora you know boulder happened obviously the boulder shooting not that long ago and i wondered if you would like to speak to how these you know how you would like to put an end or mitigate these things and what you would like to say about the constituents of your state yeah thanks ryan it i mean that i think the bottom line is that gun violence affects all of us wherever it occurs and once it affects us it never goes away you know as i mentioned earlier about columbine with my kids you know every time there is one of these shootings you can see them watching it on tv and saying we have to go through this again you know and my children are growing up in a country unlike the one i grew up in where they have a reasonable fear that they themselves or someone close to them could be the victim of gun violence and i do not believe that the founders ever intended for our children to wake up every morning scared to go to school scared to go to a concert or the grocery store or a movie theater they never expected the mass shootings or daily acts of gun violence would plague our communities and as a former school superintendent i can tell you that our kids think this is normal and that is unacceptable to me i think we can abide by our constitution be faithful to our constitution and keep our communities safe so everyone can live in a world free of fear and violence and as i said last year following a boulder shooting that you mentioned i am not asking anybody to show the courage that women of law enforcement constantly have to deal with the you know the inability of congress's capacity to deal with these issues i am not asking for the members of congress to show that that kind of courage i am just asking the centers to show an ounce of courage by doing what we can to keep weapons of war out of our communities to pass universal background checks to limit the size of magazines to address the epidemic crisis of mental health in this country it seems to me coming from a western state that has suffered the kind of episodes that you talked about that this is the least that we can do and i look forward to being in the united states set up to continue this fight and i appreciate so much the effort the gift for us has brought to this and to emily and to vic for for standing up as my constituents in colorado and helping me support them in this fight i think it is pretty clear that residents of citizens of colorado are pretty lucky to have michael bennett as a senator and i would like to to acknowledge that senators just do not plop down in the office there is a campaign that is run to put them in office and that means there is a big campaign structure and that means there is a lot of work to be done in very difficult races and that means there is a campaign manager that runs all this and senator bennett's campaign manager is justin the moore and i would like to everybody and justin is going to ask you ask everybody on the call to help join in electing and re-electing senator bennett but i am going to turn it over to justin now so he can explain how that can happen thank you ryan i agree with everything you just said and i think colorado does not know that michael bennett works very hard to deliver for the state of colorado but we are having into a re-election cycle where we are taking nothing for granted and we know that in order to michael bennett re-elected the united states senate to protect and expand our majority and to continue to make progress on the issues we care about especially on gun safety we need to work incredibly hard to win so we have two asks for all of michael supporters on the call today one of them is to help us organize, mobilize and win to volunteer for coloradans to do the work calling, texting and going door to door in their communities to get the word out about the work that michael does for colorado and need to send him back to washington the second is for them to chip in and donate we are incredibly proud that michael is the only senator running for re-election in 2022 who does not take a single dollar of campaign donations from corporate packs or from federal lobbyists he is the only one who is taken that pledge and that means he is incredibly dependent on the support of grassroots donors like you 94% of the donations to michael's campaign in the past fund raising quarter were in small dollar amounts so those are the two asks to volunteer to chip in and if folks are able to do either or both of those things they can go to michaelbenna.com slash join today thank you so much um i think it is really clear i want to thank everybody emily bick just and of course um senator bennett um i wonder senator bennett if you would like to give just a closing statement and um we will be done with the call in just a few minutes but could you give us your closing thoughts here? ryan thank you i just want to thank gifords again for the work that you do for your endorsement gabbie gifords in particular for her incredible commitment to the work that needs to get done and ryan the gun safety issue is a perfect issue um to think about you know the responsibilities we all have as citizens in a democracy there are a lot of people um in the country they are worried about whether or not this democracy can actually work whether we can come together as one people to to hand something off to our kids and our grandkids that we are proud of and i believe that we can but it is going to take really hard work and part of what we have to do is combat the special interests like the gun lobby that have made it impossible for us to pass the kind of common sense legislation that gifords advocates and that i am fighting for and um and we just have to keep working so my my final message is let us take inspiration from gabbie we cannot give up we cannot give up in this fight uh because this is a fight not just for gun safety it is a fight for our democracy and our kids and our grandkids and and uh are depending on us to hand them over a democracy that is stronger not weaker than the one we inherited and the way we are going to be able to accomplish that is through the the hard work of these campaigns but also the work that we do in between campaigns to make sure that legislation actually is moved on the set of floor and i am here to tell you it is not impossible and gabbie gabbie was here telling us that um that hard work makes you stronger and i believe that too i believe that about gabbie i believe that about me and i believe that about our democracy so thanks for being here today and ryan thank you for everything you are doing to lead this effort thanks so much senator um veck and emily thank you so much for your dedication and volunteer efforts and being here today as well everybody on the call i think if you take anything away from this um it is that gun safety responsibility reasonable decency is on the ballot and um senator benard is on that ballot to represent those things um we cannot ignore these things we cannot let our democracy with our uh gun rights uh our part responsibility is part of gun rights and and that is what senator benard that is what gifords is fighting for um there are very big things like our democracy that that we face uh extreme incredible challenges but part of that democracy is passing individual acts of decency and things like the violence against women act so again i want to remind everybody to text v a w a to three four one three one and help us and help senator benard pass this but ultimately we need to use our voices and our power at the ballot box every coloradden does and we have to build it upon this democratic majority and we cannot let voices like michael mccannot block every bit of decency and responsible action every day so it is incredibly incredibly important that senator benard be reelected that everybody on the call help and that you tell your friends and ultimately that you get out there and vote so thank you so much thank you senator benard for being here um and thank you uh senator for being a champion for all that is good and responsible thank you come