and whether he knew it or not, that is what zach wolf was doing ten years ago when he testified at the judiciary committee here on behalf of his parents and others across the country. and as i think of what is in front of his hand, i reached the conclusion that nobody liked gregory kubler, was very much of founder as a people that wrote the constitution of the united states. and so, so, so, so, like zach, you would not say that, so, but it is a fact. and he is leadership made a difference. and i believe that as a child, it is what he is. and if you want to think of what we are working in the form of you, as citizens in the democratic manner of the problem, in 2019, when we have a president who does not believe in rule law, who does not believe in freedom of the press, who does not believe in independent judiciary, who believes that i alone can be fixated, which is what you said. and that is what you are all upon in the stupidity of founder. it is at elevated in the sense of citizenship that is required of you, of us. and i see this as an extraordinary opportunity for us to reorganize our political system, to action independently, just for all the four of you to do the other two hundred third years. thank you. that the aca-caa deserve to have to be done in itself and get the power to be taken to the economy. another thing on the public's demand of what i think is that in order to accomplish that, we have to take washington. washington is not under the name of himself. donald trump is a sceptical model in washington. he is not the essential part of the law, so we will just be saying, he is the name of his much work. now that the aca is in a security, because it is so-called three-way parties and in minutes of the economy, that we have to overcome. and the way we are all going to do whatever we can at this event is like pursuing an initiative that is possible to make it every possible. and it is nice here to be. there is a lot of pressure in the whole world that i do not think the politics of us is wrong and you are top in the centrum to our kids and our maybe kids to be here. and what we have been just saying this, iowa, you know how to do because the playbook you make for abby is the playbook on the market. the playbook you make for the city is the playbook on talk about the way you are going to get back to the state center. the detroit is the playbook on talk about that. that is when we require a lot of discipline in the general government of the economy and you go on a block. what i would do is do that, and that is what i want to do for president. thank you very much. thank you.