newsroom press releases published: 11.17.2025 sen. cruz’s service academy board finalizes texas military academy recommendations austin, texas- u.s. sen. ted cruz (r-texas) celebrated the work of his service academy nominations board after it concluded its annual meeting. the board recommended the most qualified texas candidates for nomination to our nation’s distinguished military service academies. following the annual meeting, sen. cruz said , “texas has long produced remarkable military leaders who embody service, courage, and commitment to our nation’s values. i am thankful for the tireless work of my service academy nominations board to ensure that only the most extraordinary young texans, who will honor their state and country, are nominated to our military academies.” sen. cruz’s 2025 service academy nominations board members include: judge / ltc (ret.) ernest aliseda, usa - mcallen, tx tamu corps commander john andruss – college station, tx cdr nick breedlove, usnr – fort worth, tx dr. james a. broaddus – austin, tx mg (ret.) kendall cox, usa – harker heights, tx mr. stephen dement – tyler, tx cdr (ret.) ben fay, usn – brock, tx ltc (ret.) lisa jaster, usar – new braunfels, tx lt gen (ret.) frank kisner, usaf – midland, tx col (ret.) travis koch – houston, tx evangelist tim lee – rowlett, tx master chief (ret.) matthew j. may, usn – katy, tx sgt (ret.) cody mcgregor, usa – houston, tx capt erin naranjo, usaf – round rock, tx mrs. mary owen – lubbock, tx capt laurianne rodriguez, usaf – new braunfels, tx lt col (ret.) cleve rodriguez, usaf – new braunfels, tx capt judith schanno, usaf – boerne, tx justice / ltc (ret.) jaime e. tijerina, usa – mcallen, tx msgt (ret.) allison wilson, usaf – schertz, tx col (ret.) brian “rowdy” yates, usaf – abilene, tx cdr (ret.) coburn “cobi” yearian, usn – euless, tx background sen. cruz established the board in 2013 to advise him on military service academy nominations. the board is comprised of service academy alumni, members of the national guard and reserves, additional active duty and retired military leaders, former senior civilian u.s. department of defense officials, and other proud leaders and supporters of our military from across texas. the board assesses hundreds of military service academy applicants each year. the service academies will announce their admissions decisions early next year. previous next