newsroom press releases published: 11.12.2025 senate passes cruz resolution demanding that china release pastor ezra jin and other leaders of zion church washington, d.c. – u.s. sens. ted cruz (r-texas) and chris coons (d-del.), members of the senate foreign relations committee, and their colleagues issued statements following senate passage of their bipartisan resolution condemning the chinese communist party (ccp) for the abduction of pastor ezra jin and other leaders of the zion church and calling for their release. sen. cruz said, “ christians are fighting daily for their religious freedom against the chinese communist party. last month, the ccp carried out its largest nationwide crackdown in over four decades against a christian house church in china. i’m grateful to senator coons and my colleagues for standing with me to demand pastor jin and his congregation’s release and to make clear that any government that fears faith is tyrannical.” sen. coons said, “ everyone deserves the right to practice their religion freely without fear. i’m glad the senate passed this bipartisan resolution to call for the chinese government to release pastor jin, ekpar asat, and all political and religious prisoners.” sens. cruz and coons were joined by cosponsors sens. shelley moore capito (r-w. va.), jeanne shaheen (d-n.h.), chuck grassley (r-iowa), tim kaine (d-va.), tim scott (r-s.c.), jeff merkley (d-ore.), lindsey graham (r-s.c.), bill cassidy (r-la.), jim justice (r-w. va.), rick scott (r-fla.), roger wicker (r-miss.), and angela alsobrooks (d-md.). sen. capito said, “the chinese communist party’s campaign of repression against christians, including the targeting of churches such as the zion church, is a violation of fundamental religious freedom rights. i am glad to see the resolution condemning the ccp for abducting leaders of the christian leaders, which i co-sponsored, has passed the senate. this sends a clear message: faith is not a crime, and the united states condemns the recent alarming arrests of church leaders by ccp authorities.” sen. shaheen said, “the chinese communist party’s persecution of religious minority groups, including christians, muslims and buddhists is a violation of basic human rights. the detention of pastor ezra jin and leaders of the zion church are another chilling reminder of the chinese communist party’s relentless campaign to silence religious minorities. i’m proud to join this bipartisan resolution demanding their release and reaffirming america’s commitment to promote religious freedom and tolerance.” sen. grassley said, “the abduction of pastor ezra jin and the ongoing religious persecution against christians in china is a tragedy and a violation to individual rights and freedoms. i strongly condemn the chinese communist party’s continued religious persecution of christians, as well as believers of other faiths, and will continue to advocate for those being unfairly silenced. i’m pleased the senate passed our resolution unanimously.” sen. kaine said, “in 1786, the virginia general assembly passed a statute that created the foundation for religious freedom in america. our example is a beacon to the world, and the freedom to practice your faith – including the right to not practice any faith at all – is a fundamental human right. in china, the state’s crackdown on the zion church is part of a broader pattern of the systematic suppression of any religious authority or group seen as independent of the state. i am proud that this bipartisan resolution passed the senate, sending a strong message statement of support for human rights and religious freedom.” sen. tim scott said, “the chinese communist party’s targeting of pastor jin and the zion church is an attack on the god-given right to live out one’s faith. i’m pleased the senate passed this bipartisan resolution condemning china’s persecution of christians and other religious minorities, and i call for the immediate release of all those arrested. the united states stands with the persecuted and is committed to defending religious freedom.” sen. cassidy said, “faith isn’t a crime. we need to call out china for once more targeting people of faith.” sen. rick scott said, “i’m proud to see the senate’s passage of our resolution condemning the chinese communist party’s (ccp) brutal persecution of people of faith. the ccp’s record of religious oppression, including the unjust arrest of pastor ezra jin mingri and members of the zion church, is evil and unacceptable. with this bipartisan action, america is making clear our commitment to defend religious freedom as a basic human right and to stand up for all who are persecuted for their faith. i’ll continue working with my colleagues to hold the ccp accountable and demand the release of pastor jin and all those imprisoned simply for worshipping god.” sen. wicker said, “the united states has led the world in religious freedom, standing against tyrannical regimes like the people’s republic of china. we must speak the truth about the regime’s evil crackdown on christians and other religious groups. we will not stop advocating for those living under the thumb of xi jinping’s oppression.” companion legislation was introduced in the house by rep. andy barr (r-ky.-06). rep. barr said, “china needs to release pastor jin and stop persecuting christians for practicing their faith. until then, senator cruz and i will keep rallying our house and senate colleagues to condemn this atrocity and hold the chinese communist party accountable.” read the resolution here . background on october 10, 2025, the chinese communist party conducted the largest coordinated, nationwide crackdown against a christian urban house church in over four decades. at least 22 pastors and church members from zion church, one of china’s largest underground congregations, were arrested, including a prominent pastor and the founder of zion church, pastor “ezra” jin mingri. in march 2025, senator cruz introduced the falun gong protection act to combat the chinese communist party’s state-sponsored organ harvesting and to safeguard the religious freedom and human rights of falun gong practitioners. in 2024, sen. cruz introduced a resolution recognizing the 65 th anniversary of the tibetan uprising to honor the struggle of the tibetan people and the dalai lama for religious freedom and human rights. in 2021, sen. cruz issued a statement following the advancement of two of his initiatives from the senate foreign relations committee in the strategic competition act to hold accountable chinese officials who are responsible for the genocide of the uyghurs and other minorities in xinjiang. in 2020, sen. cruz joined sen. rubio in introducing the uyghur forced labor prevention act. this bipartisan and bicameral bill would hold the chinese communist party accountable for the use of forced labor in the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region (xuar) and ensure that goods produced through forced labor do not enter the united states. previous next