newsroom press releases published: 10.29.2025 sen. cruz introduces bicameral and bipartisan resolution condemning abduction and demanding release of pastor ezra jin washington, d.c. – u.s. sens. ted cruz (r-texas) and chris coons (d-del.), members of the senate foreign relations committee, introduced a resolution condemning the chinese communist party for the abduction of pastor ezra jin and other leaders of the zion church and calling for their release. sen. cruz said, “the chinese communist party is conducting yet another sweeping crackdown on christians, and they are again targeting pastor jin and the zion church. the ccp fears anything it cannot directly control, perhaps most of all, faith. the united states has powerful tools to provide protection and relief to people facing persecution and violence, and we should use those tools unless and until china releases the members of the zion church.” sen. coons said, “everyone deserves the right to practice their religion freely without fear. for years we’ve seen the chinese government terrorize, persecute, and disappear uyghurs, christians, buddhists, and other religious minorities. just in the last few days, they’ve arrested pastor ezra jin and other members of the zion church for simply doing what so many of us do each day: worshiping their god. i urge president xi to release them along with all political prisoners.” the resolution is cosponsored by sens. shelley moore capito (r-w. va.), chuck grassley (r-iowa), tim scott (r-s.c.), lindsey graham (r-s.c.), bill cassidy (r-la.), jim justice (r-w. va.), rick scott (r-fla.), and angela alsobrooks (d-md.) sen. capito said, “the chinese communist party’s campaign of repression against christians, including the targeting of churches such as the zion church, is a violation of fundamental religious freedom rights. i am proud to be an original co-sponsor of this resolution, which sends a clear message: faith is not a crime, and the united states condemns the recent alarming arrests of church leaders by ccp authorities.” sen. grassley said, “the abduction of pastor ezra jin and the ongoing religious persecution against christians in china is a tragedy and a violation to individual rights and freedoms. i strongly condemn the chinese communist party’s continued religious persecution of christians, as well as believers of other faiths, and will continue to advocate for those being unfairly silenced.” sen. tim scott said, “the chinese communist party’s crackdown on pastor jin and the zion church is an attack on the god-given right to live out one’s faith. i’m joining this bipartisan resolution to condemn china’s persecution of christians and other religious minorities and to call for the immediate release of all those arrested. the united states stands with the persecuted and is committed to defending religious freedom.” sen. cassidy said, “faith isn’t a crime. we need to call out china for once more targeting people of faith.” sen. rick scott said, “the chinese communist party’s (ccp) track record of brutal religious persecution and oppression is evil and unacceptable, with the arrest of pastor ezra jin mingri and members of the zion church as the regime’s latest violation of religious freedom and human dignity. america must always stand on the side of religious freedom as a basic human right and commit always to condemning evil violations of this right around the globe. i’m proud to join senator cruz on this resolution to condemn china’s religious persecution and demand the immediate release of pastor jin and all those imprisoned for worshipping god.” companion legislation was introduced in the house by rep. andy barr (r-ky.-06). rep. barr said, "the ccp's latest human rights violation is attacking and persecuting christians. senator cruz and i are fighting to hold the ccp accountable if they continue targeting people of faith. we will not rest until they release pastor jin and all the other people of faith wrongly detained." click here for the text of the resolution. background on october 10, 2025, the chinese communist party conducted the largest coordinated, nationwide crackdown against a christian urban house church in over four decades. at least 22 pastors and church members from zion church, one of china’s largest underground congregations, were arrested, including a prominent pastor and the founder of zion church, pastor “ezra” jin mingri. in 2021, sen. cruz issued a statement following the advancement of two of his initiatives from the senate foreign relations committee in the strategic competition act to hold accountable chinese officials who are responsible for the genocide of the uyghurs and other minorities in xinjiang. in 2020, sen. cruz joined sen. rubio in introducing the uyghur forced labor prevention act . this bipartisan and bicameral bill would hold the chinese communist party accountable for the use of forced labor in the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region (xuar) and ensure that goods produced through forced labor do not enter the united states. previous next