newsroom press releases published: 11.12.2025 sens. cruz, blackburn, hawley, scott call on doj to release arctic frost grand jury materials on republicans’ phone records ‘judge boasberg’s order was a blatant abuse of power’ washington, d.c. – u.s. sen. ted cruz (r-texas), chairman of the senate judiciary subcommittee on federal courts, oversight, agency action, and federal rights, along with sens. marsha blackburn (r-tenn.) and josh hawley (r-mo.), sent a letter requesting that u.s. attorney general pam bondi unseal the application for a non-disclosure order signed by obama-appointed judge james boasberg, which required phone carriers to keep the biden doj and jack smith’s subpoenas secret for one year. click here or the image above to watch sen. cruz’s remarks during a senate judiciary committee press conference. the letter follows sen. cruz’s call to impeach judge boasberg for his role in the arctic frost probe. last week, congressman brandon gill (r-tx-26) introduced articles of impeachment against judge boasberg in the u.s. house of representatives. excerpts and highlights from the letter: “the stored communications act makes clear that the government… when seeking a non-disclosure order… must submit an application that sets forth the factual background showing reasonable grounds for the gag order. it is our understanding that this application is currently under seal in the arctic frost grand jury materials. “we urge you to immediately move to unseal and provide this application that accompanied the gag order. judge boasberg’s order was a blatant abuse of power, and we must get to the bottom of how he arrived at the baseless conclusion that duly elected members of congress would destroy evidence or intimidate witnesses. “jack smith and the biden doj spied on their political opponents, violated the constitution, and weaponized the justice system to target members of congress—all in an effort to go after president trump. the american people deserve transparency about this egregious investigation and the full extent of the corruption of jack smith’s witch hunt. “unsealing this document is a critical step forward in our efforts to hold jack smith, judge boasberg, and all individuals who participated in this miscarriage of justice accountable. thank you for your continued work to root out the two-tiered system of justice that existed for far too long under president biden’s watch.” click here to read the full letter. previous next