newsroom press releases published: 10.27.2025 sen. cruz, colleagues introduce bill to expedite u.s. lng exports washington, d.c. – u.s. sen. ted cruz (r-texas), chair of the senate committee on commerce, science, and transportation, and colleagues introduced the natural gas export expansion act. the bill expedites the federal approval process for exporting liquefied natural gas (lng). sen. cruz said , “increasing u.s. energy exports is good for america, and there is no bigger energy producer than the state of texas. my legislation expedites permits for lng exporters to ensure that texas-produced gas can be sent to our allies around the world. it will enhance american energy dominance, create jobs, and drive investment. i call on my colleagues to pass this legislation expeditiously.” the bill is cosponsored by sens. kevin cramer (r-n.d.) and shelley moore capito (r-w. va.). sen. cramer said, “i am a firm believer energy security is national security and exporting liquefied natural gas strengthens our geopolitical hand. our bill would eliminate onerous regulations surrounding the american liquefied natural gas industry and encourage our producers to sell their premier product around the world. effectively, it would help keep people safe, keep our workers employed in good paying jobs, lower global emissions, and get a much-needed product to market.” sen. capito said, “expediting the approval process to export american liquified natural gas to our allies will not only strengthen our economy and create jobs, but it will also ensure that those countries do not have to rely on adversaries for their energy needs. unleashing american energy is a vital component to our national security, and i’m proud to join my colleagues in reintroducing legislation that supports both of these important missions.” u.s. rep. michael cloud (r-texas-27) will be introducing the companion legislation in the house. rep. cloud said, “the current approval process for our lng exports is burdened with bureaucratic red tape that puts american energy independence and dominance at risk. the natural gas expansion act eliminates regulatory hurdles, which will secure our energy, trade, and job markets, regardless of any change in the executive. i appreciate the opportunity to work with senator cruz in advancing this important legislation for american energy.” read the bill text here . background specifically, the natural gas export expansion act: amends the natural gas act to expedite non-free trade agreement (fta) export permits. by doing so, applications to export lng to certain countries are treated the same as free trade countries and receive the same accelerated approval process. retains current law for restricted nations. any nation subject to sanctions is specifically excluded, and the president or congress can specifically exclude any nation from expedited approval. sen. cruz previously introduced the bill in 2023 and 2021 . sen. cruz has long been a leader in pushing for american energy dominance and protecting america’s energy workers. in july, sen. cruz sent a letter to the federal energy regulatory commission (ferc) to expeditiously reissue the appropriate authority for the rio grande lng project. this project supports thousands of jobs and billions of dollars of investment in the rio grande valley. in march, sens. cruz, cornyn, wicker, and tim scott reintroduced the protect lng act , which would ensure that a court cannot vacate a previously authorized lng permit, clarifies the venue for lng lawsuits before federal courts, and mandates that courts grant expedited decisions in relevant cases. cruz first introduced this bill in 2024. in 2022, the u.s. department of energy (doe) announced the approval of permits to export liquefied natural gas to asia after sen. cruz held four agency nominees. this allowed for two sempra facilities on the west coast to be able to ship texas-produced natural gas to asia, increasing the supply that competes with russia to fuel the rest of the continent. previous next