newsroom press releases published: 11.07.2025 senate unanimously passes sen. cruz legislation increasing pension for medal of honor recipients, will now become law washington, d.c. – u.s. sen. ted cruz (r-texas), a member of the senate foreign relations committee, spoke on the senate floor in favor of the house-passed version of the monetary enhancement for distinguished active legends (medal) act, legislation that he drafted, after which the senate unanimously passed the bill. the act had previously been passed unanimously by the u.s. house of representatives and will now go to the president for his signature to become law. this legislation will increase the monthly pension for living medal of honor recipients to $67,500 annually. click here or the image above to watch sen. cruz’s remarks on the u.s. senate floor. please see below sen. cruz’s remarks: “madam president, i rise today to honor a very special group of americans: the soldiers, the sailors, the marines, and the airmen who have fought bravely for this nation but who have received the very highest distinction that any member of the armed forces can earn—the medal of honor. “since 1863, presidents of the united states have awarded the medal of honor to more than 3,500 of the bravest men and women ever to wear the uniform of this nation. each one has demonstrated valor, gallantry, and heroism above and beyond the call of duty, with acts so selfless, so extraordinary, that they stand as beacons of courage for future generations. “in 1916, congress passed public law 6556, establishing the army and navy medal of honor roll and entitling each medal of honor recipient to a modest special pension of $10 per month for life. over time, that monthly amount has gradually increased from $10 to $100 to what stands today at approximately $1,400 per month. “but, madam president, let us pause and think about that—$1,400 a month for those who risked everything: their safety, their future, their very lives—for freedom, for the opportunity for all of us to be here today. today, there are 61 living medal of honor recipients—61 men who faced unthinkable odds, who put their country before themselves so that the rest of us could live in peace. we cannot truly ever repay them. there is no sum, there is no medal, there are no words that can measure up to their sacrifice. but there are ways that we can continue to honor them—by ensuring that they are cared for, respected, and supported. “madam president, in january of this year, i introduced the medal act, my legislation to raise the monthly pension for medal of honor recipients. this legislation is a way for this nation to say, ‘we see you,’ ‘we remember you,’ and ‘we will not forget what you have done.’ many of these heroes spend their time traveling the country, speaking to schoolchildren, visiting military hospitals, and strengthening the very fabric of america. this monetary increase will allow them to continue those efforts—to reach more communities, mentor more veterans, and remind all of us about the cost of freedom. “and i would like to take a moment to recognize the nine medal of honor recipients who currently live in the lone star state. we honor them, and we cherish them. i would also like to recognize the 139 medal of honor recipients who were either born in, entered the service from, or died in texas. these are america's heroes, and they are heroes for the great state of texas. “now, i would like to take a moment to recognize the medal of honor recipients with us here in the gallery: lieutenant colonel william swenson and colonel paris davis. in just a moment, i will propound a unanimous consent request to take up and pass h.r. 695. the house passed a version of the medal act by a vote of 424 to zero. i urge my colleagues to join me—as our companions in the house have already done—in supporting this measure, in passing it into law, in sending it directly to the president's desk to be signed into law, and in showing that when it comes to honoring our nation's very greatest heroes, we are united, and we speak with one voice.” read the medal act here . background the legislation was introduced in the house by rep. troy nehls (r-texas-22). the medal of honor is the highest military decoration bestowed by the united states. there are only 61 living medal of honor recipients. medal of honor recipients are often not retired from the u.s. military and often receive no compensation for the costs of their public engagements. through these appearances, they share stories of heroism that inspire americans, strengthen national pride, and support military recruiting and retention. increasing their monthly pensions is essential to easing the financial burden on their families and ensuring they can continue representing the best of our nation’s values. previous next