i am presenting southern sonoma county and marin county in the state legislature for the past five years. i am an environmental attorney by training. i was a senior attorney with an environmental group called the natural resources defense council. before i was elected to the legislature, i am a bit of a novelty when it comes to serving in the legislature. i think i am the first professional environmentalist that has ever been elected. we have all sorts of other professions represented, but it is been a great honor to bring that distinction. and it has enabled me to work on a lot of good environmental issues over the past five years. i chair the legislative environmental caucus and am very actively working on. and in many cases, passing bills that are building our green economy and promoting green jobs and promoting energy independence. and doing other things that i know are so very, very important to us to our values and also to our economy all up and down the north coast. i am running for congress and tomorrow i am actually going to make my formal launch of my campaign. i hope many of you will join me online. we are going to do this by facebook and email and other social media. so if you just google jared huffman or jaredhuffman.com, you can sign up and be part of the official launch. and i look forward very much to seeing you in the months ahead. this is a very important year that we have ahead of us. and we have a tremendous challenges and the fact that we are gathered here on labor day kind of underscores one of those challenges. because we have these republican extremists to have somehow taken over the house of representatives and decided that it was not enough to scapegoat immigrants and to scapegoat gaze and to scapegoat environmentalists. now they have to start scapegoat workers. and i think it is time in 2012 for us to turn the page on this republican extremism. we can do it. it is only going to take 25 seats in the house of representatives to bring it back into democratic control. and i know that we have the message. we have the conviction to get out there in 2012 and do it. i hope to be your representative on this new second congressional district. it is going to be a year of change for all of us. whether you have been in the southern end of that district represented by len wolsey or the northern end by mike thompson. they have represented us very well in all parts of this area. but for the first time in many, many years we are all sending someone new to congress to represent you. i will be articulating my vision for this district and for this country. in the months ahead, i will be up here a lot. and one thing that i think you will see is going to be different about my campaign. is that i am going to tell you about what i have done. not just what i have promised to do. because i think a record of getting things done, especially if it involves cutting through partisan gridlock. which i have had to do quite a bit of in sacramento these past few years. if you can get things done in that environment, that tells you a lot about how someone will perform in congress. so i am thrilled to be here. i look forward to speaking with as many of you as possible, getting to know you on the campaign trail ahead. and i hope you will support me for congress. i am jared huffman. thanks.