it is absolutely an honor to be with you here tonight for your annual gathering. i want to start by observing what a difference a year can make. last year at about this time, my constituent, a washington post correspondent that was just reference named jason resion, was actually imprisoned and being held hostage at evan prison in iran. now we fast forward to this year. and right now, jason is free to say and write whatever he pleases. he is enjoying a nimen journalism fellowship at harvard, living there with his wonderful wife, yegi. now, jason went to high school just a few blocks. yes. jason went to high school just a few blocks from my district office in marin county, california. and he had originally gone to iran in order to connect with his own family heritage, and also as a journalist to write very humanizing stories about a country that frankly is not very well understood by most americans. for that, for the crime of being a journalist, he was imprisoned and spent 539 days in one of the world's most notorious prisons. now when we learned in january that jason was finally going to be released as part of a painstakingly negotiated prisoner exchange, i had the privilege of joining jason's family and his washington post employers in germany to welcome him back to the free world. i did not know jason before this ordeal brought us together, but we have actually become good friends now. and i want to tell you, the american iranian community should be very proud of this young man. he exhibited poise and character before, during, and after his ordeal at evan prison, and his remarkable combination of intelligence, thoughtfulness, gentle wit, and modesty make him a uniquely compelling and likable person. jason and his wife, yegi, should never have been detained in iran. he should never have lost 18 months of his life in a prison where he was regularly subjected to physical and psychological abuse. this young couple should not have had their lives turned upside down, but the fact that they are free today is a blessing. and i want to extend a very heartfelt thank you to niac for your work to help secure their freedom. now, i ask advocacy on jason's behalf was absolutely exemplary. and it is one of the reasons i was delighted to get the invitation to join you tonight so that i could personally thank you for being part of an incredible collaborative effort to get jason's freedom. and that effort included jason's family, the washington post, it included journalists and human rights advocates all over the world. it included obviously our own white house and our state department, and also other governments, especially the swiss. now, those of you who follow jason resion on twitter, and i highly recommend it if you do not, but if you do, you will know that he regularly speaks out on issues relating to iran, including the regime's continuing practice of detaining dual nationals. jason was in new york city last week for the united nations general assembly, and i was able to arrange for him to actually be in the chamber for president obama's final speech to world leaders. and i thought that was fitting, because in many ways, jason is a living exhibit to the points that president obama was making in his speech. points that included the importance of democracy and human rights, the rule of law, the imperative of embracing tolerance and pursuing a world without nuclear weapons, and the opportunity for iran to engage constructively with other nations. there were a lot of pieces that had to fall into place to secure jason's freedom in january, but there is one factor that i believe really made all the difference. and that is the diplomatic channel opened by the joint comprehensive plan of action, the nuclear deal, with iran. that is what enabled secretary kerry and his colleagues to keep pressing our demands, and ultimately to negotiate a prisoner exchange. and it enabled that agreement to actually hold up even as a patrol boat full of american sailors straight into iranian waters, and in the final – this is right in the final days before the prisoner exchange was going to go forward. that mishap, i am sure all of you recall it, could easily have escalated into a major conflict. it could have scuttled the prisoner exchange for sure. instead, it was quickly diffused by a phone call between secretary kerry and foreign minister zareef. our sailors were back on their ship a day later, and the prisoner exchange went forward without a hitch – almost without a hitch. i say almost, because, as you know, the revolutionary guard could not resist broadcasting inflammatory pictures of our sailors in iranian custody. and the iranian media portrayed this as a sort of a military victory. inside evan prison, at that time, this episode was replayed over and over on state tv. for jason rezion and the other american prisoners, one of whom i have gotten to know pretty well, he is a remarkable and unbreakable american iranian marine by the name of amir hekmadi. and amir told me that in his final days of captivity, his interrogators, in one last unsuccessful attempt to break his spirit, pointed to that state tv coverage and said, do you see that? how does it feel to have your fellow american soldiers captured by iran? to which amir replied, what, you kept them overnight and made them meet your terrible gammé bottom-john? i hope i pronounced that right, by the way. he told me it was this really awful eggplant dish. so anyway, then amir up the anni and asked his interrogator, by the way, how did it feel to pour concrete into your nuclear reactor? that, of course, brings us to the jcpoa. and one of its central challenges from the iranian perspective, a point which amir hekmadi knew very well when he made that comment. while moderates in iran shared the opportunity for improved economic relations and diplomacy with the united states, hardliners like the revolutionary guard were threatened, if not embarrassed, by a deal that made major concessions to the united states. now, here in the united states, there are also supporters and critics as well. i will confess that when the jcpoa was first presented to me and my colleagues in congress, i was skeptical and i spent many hours deliberating how i would vote. keep in mind that this is probably the most consequential vote that i have faced as a member of congress. there was a lot to consider. and my congressional district strongly supports peace and always prefers diplomacy over war. my predecessor in congress was lynn wolsey, who made her mark by giving more than 400 speeches on the floor of the house of representatives against the wars in iraq and afghanistan. and i share the view that we have to always do everything we can to avoid wars. but even from an anti-war perspective, the vote on the jcpoa was not simple as i saw it. if the deal was not strong enough, if it allowed iran to somehow secure a nuclear weapon, that too could draw us into war. if the sunni arab states in the region felt the deal did not adequately contain iran's nuclear program, then they too would want nuclear weapons. and we would have a nuclear arms race and quite possibly a major war, even a nuclear war. excuse me. now i would have preferred a deal that simply prohibited enrichment. instead we have a deal that allows low-level enrichment to continue. i would have preferred a deal that lasted, that was permanent actually, instead of one that lasted 15 years. and frankly, i was hesitant to make concessions to a country that was not only illegally detaining my constituent at the time, but was also stoking conflict in the region. but in the end, after a lot of consideration, i was convinced that the inspection and monitoring provisions were so strong and intrusive that iran could not successfully cheat. and 15 years would at least give us a foundation for ultimately securing a permanent deal. and hopefully, i know all of us share this hope in time, having a new iranian regime that is no longer interested in nuclear weapons. the support, i will add, the support of saudi arabia kuwait, bahrain, uae, qatar, and oman. the country's most likely to pursue nuclear weapons if the deal did not work was critical. in my view and in the view of many members of congress, it showed that we really were preventing a nuclear arms race. and it undermined israel's criticisms because it showed that other countries who would be directly threatened by a nuclear arm to iran trusted this deal to work. now critics of the jcpoa have been quick to point out that iran has not stopped engaging in aggressive provocative behavior in the region. human rights violations have continued unabated. and i take all these issues seriously, but i really never expected a nuclear agreement to solve every challenge we face with the current iranian regime. now, just last month, i know that the state department had to issue travel warnings to iranian americans who were thinking about going to iran because the regime does continue to unjustly detain an imprisoned u.s. citizens. i hope that iran will come to see that this conduct undermines their ability to have normal business and economic relations with the rest of the world, including boeing, an important company that they are hoping to do business with, but it is going to be very hard for boeing to set up technical field offices and other representatives in iran if they feel unsafe, if this problem of detention continues. so i hope, in the meantime, that any of you who are dual nationals in this room that are thinking of visiting iran are very, very careful. i am truly worried about the risks right now that iranian americans face when they decide to make that kind of travel. when i have no illusions about the iranian regime, despite the nuclear agreement, i expect that we will continue to have tensions and challenges for some time to come. but with this agreement in place, we can address those problems without the threat of a nuclear conflict hanging over us, at least for the next 15 years. and hopefully we can continue to utilize the diplomatic channels that we have established, the channels that have already helped us avoid conflict and have already helped secure an important prisoner exchange. and not everyone in congress shares my cautious optimism and support for the jcpoa, as you well know. opponents of this agreement are going to continue doing everything they can to undermine it. congress just voted last week on a set of partisan bills that attempt to undermine the agreement and sabotage diplomacy with iran. the legislation purports to be necessary to prohibit the u.s. from ever paying cash, ransom to iran, something that republicans have recently claimed was done in the prisoner exchange with jason resign. it is not true that was not ransom, but that was the pretext for this legislation. now, if i just want to be clear, if this bill were to become law, and it is not going to become law, thankfully, but if it were, it could prevent any payment from the u.s. government to iran, even payments that are required by law, thus putting the united states in violation of international law and international accords. that is the same kind of stubborn, arrogant approach that, frankly, has worsened our problems in the world, and it carries real consequence for people, whether they are journalists like jason resign or families fleeing violence in syria or aid workers serving refugees. so i am very glad that this partisan piece of legislation is not going to become law. they are going to be critics. yeah. thank you. there will be critics and frustrations regarding the jcpoa in iran as well. now, i am sure many of you know people and businesses impacted by the sanctions regime, and there is a growing sense of disappointment in iran that the lifting of sanctions has not translated to the anticipating economic benefits as of yet. now, i personally never believed the arguments by prime minister netanyahu and other critics of the nuclear deal that this would be a huge immediate economic windfall to iran. i believe the administration, when they told us that economic relief would be gradual, that it would be modest, but it is possible that some supporters of the deal, even within iran, may have oversold the economic benefits on this point, and that is going to create some political challenges going forward. i do believe, though, that over time, iran will see significant benefits from sanctioned relief as they should, and just this week, the treasury department finally removed a hurdle for western aircraft manufacturers, airbus and boeing, as i mentioned earlier, in order to sell planes to iran. hopefully, this kind of practical commercial development will help improve our nation's relationship with iran. i think our progress will surely continue to be tested, and we will have to keep up the engagement and dialogue between our countries just as we have done with other countries that eventually ceased to be adversaries of the united states. and in that regard, i think we should look at where u.s.-cuban relations are today, after decades of a stubborn policy of embargo and isolation. our ability to make that kind of progress with iran will depend on significant part on politics inside of iran. as long as the revolutionary guard and other hardliners are in power, the regime may continue to stoke conflict, to flout human rights, to jail journalists, and to test our resolve. they will try to maintain an adversarial relationship with the united states as long as possible, because that is how they have justified their own political existence for so long. an normalized relationship with the u.s. could, in their view, undermine the rationale for their own continuing political power. in the meantime, we are going to have to speak out strongly on human rights and other issues, and keep the pressure on iran to do the right thing. and niac is an absolutely essential voice in that regard. despite our success in securing jason resign's freedom and the freedom of the other american prisoners, other westerners with dual iranian citizenship continue to be harassed and detained, including bacar and siam mcnamazi and others. so i want to thank you for strongly and consistently standing up for human rights in iran, and i want you to know that you can count on my continued support. i have a lot of wonderful things in my northern california district. i have a third of the state's coastline, the rugged coastline of northern california. i have giant, ancient, redwood trees. i have beautiful wine countries. so many great things for you to see, and i hope you will come and visit. one of the other great things i have in my district is a very robust, talented, and engaged community of iranian americans. i go to them for feedback on all of these issues that we are discussing tonight, and i am grateful when they come to me with concerns and feedback. and that is how i came to understand that last year tucked into a much bigger piece of legislation, and without the kind of deliberation and scrutiny that you would expect of the united states congress, my colleagues and i passed a visa waiver reform that inappropriately impacts iranian americans. one constituent who wrote to me had lived his entire life in the u.s., but because of his iranian-born father who arrived in this country more than 60 years ago, the new law intended to close loop holes in the visa waiver program could impact him in a very, very negative way. and i heard similar stories from people throughout my district, including some iranian americans who had never even been to iran or had never claimed or exercised their dual citizenship. they too could be very adversely affected. so many of us in congress are working to undo this unfortunate and unacceptable change in the law. i am sorry, frankly, that we allowed it to happen. earlier this year, secretary john kerry and secretary j. johnson took action to clarify travel restrictions for journalists, humanitarian aid workers, and business travelers, but it still does not go far enough. that is why, in february, i joined a letter with 25 other members of congress to secretary kerry and secretary john's and urging them to protect dual national americans and americans traveling to iran from visa restrictions and to ensure that they are not unjustly targeted. the u.s. passport should provide its holder with full benefits and rights of american citizenship, period. so we will keep working on that, hopefully working closely with all of you, and you will do your part because this is an election year. and we need to make sure we are getting out the vote, and you need to make sure that candidates who seek your support understand the importance of fixing this problem. the theme tonight is a more perfect union, so i will just leave you with one final thought. the next president and the next congress may continue president obama's policy of cautious and intentional engagement with iran so that the nuclear deal is implemented to keep the long-term benefits to both americans and iranians moving forward. the next president, whoever she may be, the next president might understand the importance of a fair and non-discriminatory visa waiver program, or we could elect a president whose knee jerk instinct is to tear up existing deals and treaties, whose business record suggests a willingness to walk away from binding commitments and obligations, someone who traffics in scapegoating in xenophobia and who is proposed new religious and ideological tests for people seeking to enter the united states. there is obviously a lot at stake for iranian americans and for everyone in this country, and we need to make sure we all do our part in the next 43 days to ensure that we continue on a forward path to becoming a more perfect union. thank you again for all you do. now, i think we can tell we are all big fans. i just wanted to share a little anecdote that sort of shows how grateful we are for congressman huffman's leadership. there are a lot of members of congress who are great leaders, but they do not necessarily have great leaders around them. congressman huffman's staff has been unrivaled in how much they listen, how attentive they are to our community's needs both in district, back in marin county, and on the hill. and as congressman huffman said, what we are trying to do is build relationships with each of our lawmakers on the hill, and congressman huffman's office is a model of what good listening and good relationship building can be. and so for that, we wanted to give you a small token of our appreciation. as you go to marin county, iranian american homes, you will recognize these little persian boxes that many of us have. and so we just wanted to make sure you had one as well. so, anyway. thank you. thank you.