so do you think everybody is hopeful that you were overwhelmed? my name is robert boss. i am the speaker of the wisconsin state assembly and you are in chocolate city, usa, burlington, wisconsin. let me start by giving you a couple quick introductions. joining me here today is our state senator for this district, my friend van wongart. dr. van wongart. also serving racine county. we have my colleague and also friend tom weatherson. let us give him a round of applause. most importantly, we have a fantastic group of grassroots republicans who understands exactly what is taking this off the plate. we also have the mary back in the room. one of my other colleagues who is joining us, not for racine county, but ken scorrance, who was here. let us give him a round of applause. so as the speaker of the assembly, there are two groups of people that i have to keep happy by own constituents who i love most, but the 62 other republicans that will likely speak are. i have to always make sure to make sure i get a reason. so i am glad to be here today for a really exciting event. my job is to introduce somebody that every single person in this room already knows because he is our congressman. paul ryan elected the congress in 1998. all of us knew when we helped on his first campaign that he had a really bright future because we want republicans from wisconsin who offer ideas, conservative solutions, reform and policy. we want to show what it means to be a hard working conservative republican who has ideas. and we know exactly what paul ryan stands for. we know that ever since he has been elected, not only is he bright and articulate, but he is a force to be reckoned with in the policy debate about why republicans and the beliefs that we hold so dear are the way that the entire country should be moving. that is right. right. that is right. congressman ryan, our friend, no doubt about it, made the decision to become speaker. it was a little easier for me than it was for him. he had to really be convinced that he could lead in a way that would make america proud. and i will tell you there is nobody in the world that i can think of who would do a better job not only to congress but be a shining star in the republican party than our own congressman paul ryan. let us give him a big hug. we have got a big project. we have got a big project because this man, ron johnson, he has earned our support. ron johnson. what we are focusing on, one of the things that robin talked about, which as you know i took a job, it was a good planning on taking. and i took it on a couple of conditions. one of those conditions was that we, as a party, actually stand for our principles and show what they look like in practice. that we as a party are not just an opposition party but a proposition party, the alternative party. that we go to the country and show what conservative principles were applied to the pop of the day, what those solutions look like. we run on those solutions, which is what we are in the middle of doing so that we can win a mandate from the country, get permission, just like these men and women in madison did. so that we can get this country back on track. you know one of the people who animated this idea, who crystallized it in my mind, it was an op-ed, i read a wall street journal out of them three or four years ago by ron johnson. america's choice, you remember that? we, we are. this is where we are going. and we have to see ron johnson re-elected. absolutely. because this takes good care of you. not just one supreme court justice but maybe three. that will determine whether or not this is a constitution that is kept for a generation or not. we have a majority in the house and we want to send a good conservative legislation like we always do, but we need it to be able to go to the senate. and we need people who want to receive that legislation and move that legislation. we need to keep the majority of the senate more importantly. when you think about the person that you want representing you in the government, in congress, in the senate, you want somebody who believes what you believe, who acts on those beliefs, but who is an effective conservative, who is effective at actually carrying them on. it is one thing to say good things. it is one thing to say conservative things. you know, yell at the tv or the radio, but to actually be a conservative and then to do the hard work of negotiating, of controlling, of, of, of getting people to agree to your point of view and to get it done in the past and see it happen. that is a special kind of person. that takes a special kind of person to be honest. because the kind of person you want to see is the kind of person we have right here. a true citizen legislator who got upset with the direction of government in 2010. we went a great life, successful business hiring lots of people doing really well. and do you want to take those skills that he owned as a successful business person as an accountant and take it and put it to the service of the country who loves, and he loves deerwood. and then take those skills that he succeeded as a business person and apply them to government so they can actually advance the principles, not just help the principles, but advance those principles. that is what ron johnson is. and that is why ron johnson earns our support. and that is why our project here in wisconsin is and must be and will be the successful reelection of our great senator, ron johnson. and join me in welcoming you. thank you all. thank you all. thank you all. thank you. thank you. thank you for the leadership you showed the state of wisconsin. i mean, i cannot say enough to things about paul ryan. i am sure you are right looking forward and somebody to represent me. you have a person of integrity, intelligence, ideas, and courage. if you measure my ipad, i remember something called rose at the roadmap for america. how many cospons would you have on that one? i mean, eight cosponsors because paul ryan is a leader and he shows courage. and that is what we need at this moment in time in our history. this week we started out my formal campaign for reelection the nice day of satin. when i ran in 2010, i ran because i was panning for this country. i made two basic promises to the citizens of wisconsin. i always tell you the truth and i will never vote for my reelection mind. i bought those promises, but i have to admit that second promise is pretty easy to make. because honestly, i never really thought of me running again. my fault to you, some of you, as i never thought president obama had a chance of getting reelected. i mean, you know, obama care, just as over $1 trillion as far as the i can see. i think america's jaw had dropped collectively. our jaws have dropped and we saw this massive government take over of our lives. it is controlled, it is intrusion to our lives. and so my day of plan was spent two years, get up to speed trying to get some level of comprehensive over this massive beast, they call it federal government, but then work with a serious president and vice president. and so in my opinion, i think that is the most important space that mitt romney and paul romney have been that serious team. i am not sure if what they did decide to endorse mitt before the wisconsin primary. and now what i have talked to a government romney prior to wisconsin primary. what made me decide to endorse it was when he was talking to me, said, i expected you one term president. i found that i surprised him. he said, i intend to fix these problems. it will not be fun, it will not be popular. these problems are serious. so the solutions will not be popular. mike prepared me for me to get reelected, but i am going to commit myself solving these problems. and when he picked paul romney's running me, again, another serious first integrity. i knew he was committed to doing that. unfortunately, though, america made their own choice. and now we have got another term of barack obama in the problems that have gone unaddressed and become more serious. now we announced like campaign this monday in auschrash on the plant floor of the business i help build. with a couple hundred supporters, people helped me build the business. and you think about the contrast between myself and my opponent's senator, final. i waited as i did in 2010. now he decided to run the first time to write about now six months before election. i thought that by the way was more than enough time. i thought there was more than enough time to have any election for the united states said, to subject the businesses of wisconsin to that type of process. i did the same thing this time. but if you notice, semifinals, so desperate to get back into washington, become a us senator again. that is his main objection. he wants to be a us senator. he announced a year ago. but he compared his announcement to mine. i was surrounded by family, friends, co-workers. semifinals phoned his announcement. did you realize he just videotaped an announcement? well, senator just phoned it in. he was surrounded by no one, but i guess who would he surround himself with? count other california professors, because that is where he was. tribal lawyers, career politicians, actually it is kind of pathetic. now the difference is very clear. so i have got a 31-year background as a manufacturer. one of you folks, you know, just working hard trying to produce a good product, good service for the rest of our fellow citizens. centrifying gold has spent the last 30 years as a career politician. i actually know how to build a business. i understand how to do the cheap economic growth. centrifying gold only knows how to grow government. and of course, he is one of those 60 deciding votes on a bond of care. but you realize he did not go far enough for a centrifying gold. he wanted a single payer system. and of course, now because of the tragedies in toma, that the va health care center, not where other places around the country, we know what a single payer, government-run, bureaucratic health care system looks like. he wants that for all of america. i do not. that is the start contrast. and also, i listen to centrifying gold. i might be a shade a couple months ago. he was answering a question about the obama care. and so you know that health care bill, it is really not as bad as some people are pretending to be. now, my truth is that we drove through spooner was passed on as reminded that the janice federman, one of hundreds of was passed on as it written me talking about the harm centrifying gold's bill has done to them. wrote to me that her premiums prior to obama care were $276 a month. now there is $787 per month. and the patient protection affordable care act did not exactly live up to its name, did it? it did not protect the millions of americans of wastes health care, the thousands of wisconsinites, and it is so not affordable, not not for people like janice federman. so centrifying gold, here's the truth. janice federman is a real person. she is being harmed by your law. she is not pretending. that is real harmed by a real person. and that is something we need to understand. another thing that centrifying gold said when he was first running back in 1992, he talked about economic growth. he was the number one thing he wanted to achieve. actually, he said, reducing the deficit was a top priority to achieve an economic growth. and yet when he had a chance, when we actually had a balanced budget in the late 90s, do you really centrifying gold? i guess the balanced budget, remember? four times. twice, twice, you would have been deciding vote with this event to the states. we could have put in that control to enforce the career politicians to find the balance of our budget. we would not be $19 trillion in debt today. the centrifying gold would have actually been the maverick, the independent, and actually lived up to those promises of debting himself, reducing the deficit. so again, the choice is very clear. between myself and somebody who is doing this because i want to solve these problems, like paul ryan, like mitt brownie, like robin washington. i am not doing this because i want to be a senator. i am doing it because i am panicked from this nation. you are debt deficit. the fact that crisis is a really growing threat. the fact that regulations are the silent killer, to economic activity and productivity. economic growth is the number one corner of a solution. i know how to grow a economy. centrifying gold does not have a clue. so rather than spend any more time talking about the proud states in the states, let me tell you why in the end, i am willing to do this again. even though trust me, i miss my life. when paul is talking about all those things in australia, i am going, man, that sounds pretty good. this is why i am doing it. oftentimes, i will end up in a speech talking about the finest of moments. the unique contact people like paul and robin i have with the finest of moments. for example, walter reed where you go there, you see these kids. but they are limbs missing. i have never helped but ask you what to do. he is always the second sir, third sir, fourth sir. they probably never wanted to go to a rap rap and stand the first time. that is less than second, third, or fourth. but they did not do it. they did not give up on america. neither can i, nor can you. i want to finish off this little talk with a different story. it really has to do with my chairmanship of the homeland security government affairs committee. i was asked by secretary james johnson who i think is a real patriot, a man of honor, trying to do his job to keep this nation safe. he asked me to accompany him to a 9-11 memorial service in shanks for pennsylvania. and there are two things that just made just a tremendous impression on me that i want to share with you today. first was the day before that the ceremony of the april, they had just opened up the visitor center. in the visitor center, there was an exhibit, a roll of telephone handsets. and a visitor would pick clothes up, pick up a handset, and he would start listening. he would start listening. and trust me, it is hard to listen to. three female passengers of the united flight 93 lead the voice mail message to the local ones. now, other passengers, i guess you can say, were fortunate enough to get through the local ones. they knew what was happening. they knew what happened when it happened in new york, the twin towers. they knew that their aircraft, their plane had been turned into a weapon to be used against their fellow citizens. well, so extraordinary about this and those voice mail messages is those three female passengers. they were not concerned about themselves. they were concerned about their loved ones, about the grieving, the loss that they are going to be experiencing. that humanity in their exhibiting is inspiring. it makes a feel pretty good to be an american realizing that is what our fellow citizens are like. the other thing is during the speeches, i was reminded because we have all heard the iconic phrase, right? i mean, how much more american is that? let us roll. let us roll. we got a job to do what is to do. but what i was reminded of is just prior to todd bieber, honoring those words. the past years on the united flight 93 did something. again, they knew what was happening. i am sure they had a discussion. i cannot imagine they debated it. then they did something put to essentially america that took a vote. that took a vote. i like telling that story now because in november 2016, we are all going to be going to the polls. we are trying to get our fellow citizens going to the polls, recognizing the challenges, recognizing what is at stake. our vote may not be life and death, like the past years of the united flight 93. but boys and girls, question. this is going to be a challenge in 2016. you are in stato, wisconsin. but i really do look at the wisconsin's being the firewall. our 10 elector are of hopes that the sentencing are crucial to saving. so we are going to need an all out effort. and i think the attitude i want all of you to take into this election, understanding what is at stake. understanding and knowing that 2000 votes in a couple hanging chads decided an election in florida. northern goldman won the senate seat by 300 votes and then somehow lost it next door in minnesota. so understanding what is at stake, understand how full cc elections can be. i want everybody's attitude in terms of your own individual effort, your time, your talent, your treasure, your contribute to this effort. your individual effort could be the effort to save this country. if you take that attitude, you do the work, we all do the work. i mean, we are going to work my tail on you, do this. we all are. we will save this nation. so god bless your effort. god bless wisconsin. god bless you all. thank you.