hello and thank you for joining us today. i have been wichita chair of the democratic party of wisconsin growing by a group of fellow wisconsinites who are here because we are curious that drone johnson keeps looking out for himself in his biggest donors while doing everything he can to block supportive health, who are working with wisconsinites. now, we are currently on wall street in madison. it just so happens that when drone johnson shows where the low-key of his office is not at all the possible locations in this entire state, it is wall street. and that really represents where his priorities are. people like it is time for 2017. there was a big debate about tax policy. a lot of trump wanted to pass tax gold and benefit in over-rich big corporations. and for a while, drone johnson was the only person saying no. now, the only republican saying no. why did drone johnson originally lose donald trump's tax cuts for the super-rich? because there were not enough tax cuts for the super-rich. in fact, drone johnson held out his vote on trump's tax giveaway until they could create a giant extra carve-out for the specific type of corporations that run johnson and his biggest bachelors. johnson has now received his votes in all this time about how much he personally benefited from the tax cut that he insisted on. what we do know is that he was a investigative journalist that is two biggest bachelors. he lied to family and ran him through his biggest billionaire bachelors, walked away with an estimated half billion dollars over eight years just for those three people because of this tax provision that he personally insisted on. this was the price of his vote for the bill. now, these three donors, they found $20 billion in his last election campaign. so, do the man. when drone johnson had the power to say yes for no on a tax bill, he insisted on a half billion dollar giveaway for the three people who took $20 billion in his poor campaign. talk about how to turn on investment. something only available to those at the very, very tippy, tippy top of the economic ladder. so, we saw drone johnson's record. we saw his values on display that had his own pockets and the patent pockets of this super-rich campaign donors. and now we see what he does when someone proposed his support for the little tax. we saw what drone johnson did trying to kill the american rescue plan. did you ever think he could delay the stimulus jet to prevent the supply of the fuel? he tried to make it even to block each child tax credit, which is supporting 9 out of 10 of his cousin kids right now. drone johnson did extreme parliamentary tactics to try to delay the vote to throw himself on the train tracks to block a fight of relief for middle class families that he insisted on even larger doses for the super-rich. and now we are debating one of the most significant businesses in legislation of our life to build a better plan for proposals of lower taxes for the middle class for the people across the state. and drone johnson is not even pretending to consider a conversation about how to get this legislation through. he is a plan no before he even knows what is in the bill. democrats are proposing harm for parents, they are proposing harm for seniors, they are proposing harm for working families with adults. and drone johnson is saying no, no, no, no, no. the only thing drone johnson ever said yes to is stuff that when it is his own pockets and the pockets of his wealthiest donors. this is not the kind of representation that wisconsin needs for deserves. drone johnson represents the very first of the american food time receipt for every business of the region, health distribution, or regular people to those in the top instead of supporting an economy for everyone to thrive and list all those. that is why we are here today and that is why drone johnson asked to go. with that, i would like to welcome our new community here at america, grover, and everybody here. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. okay. thanks everyone so much.