Press Releases
June 18, 2025
Governor Cuomo Calls on All Mayoral Candidates to Denounce Zohran Mamdani’s Refusal to Condemn ‘Globalize the Intifada’
Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, candidate for mayor of New York City, today sharply condemned democratic socialist and mayoral candidate Zohran Mamdani for his refusal to denounce the phrase ‘Globalize the Intifada’. During an interview with The Bulwark podcast last night, Mamdani refused to condemn the phrase that is used to incite violence against Jews, which has since prompted widespread outrage.
June 18, 2025
Staten Island Advance Endorses Cuomo for Mayor in Democratic Primary Election
Governor Cuomo, candidate for mayor of New York City, today received the endorsement of the Staten Island Advance for the upcoming Democratic primary for mayor. In its editorial, the Advance praised Governor Cuomo’s leadership in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, building a new Goethals Bridge in record time, significant investments to transform the North Shore, and engineering more toll relief on the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge.
June 17, 2025
Governor Cuomo Remarks on Comptroller Lander’s Detainment
Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, candidate for New York City Mayor, responded to the detainment of Comptroller Brad Lander today following a GOTV rally with more than 3,500 members of organized labor in Union Square.
June 17, 2025
Transcript: Governor Cuomo Joined by 3,000 Union Members, Delivers GOTV Remarks in Union Square Park
Governor Cuomo, candidate for Mayor of New York City, was joined by over 3,000 men and women at the GOTV rally in Union Square Park. Cuomo was joined by organized labor from the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, District Council of Carpenters, IBEW Local 3, Iron Workers Local 46 Lathers Metallic, Building, Concrete, Excavating and Common Laborers Local Union #731, and the Mason Tenders District Council. Cuomo called for strong leadership to restore safety, support workers, and tackle New York City’s public safety and affordability crisis. He criticized ineffective politicians and promised real action to rebuild the city, positioning himself as the leader organized labor can count on to save New York. Cuomo urged voters to head to the polls for early voting and promised that, together, organized labor would build New York City to be the best it’s ever been.
June 17, 2025
Statement from Governor Cuomo on Comptroller Lander’s Illegal Detainment
This is the latest example of the extreme thuggery of Trump's ICE out of control -- one can only imagine the fear families across our country feel when confronted with ICE.  Fear of separation, fear of being taken from their schools, fear of being detained without just cause.
June 17, 2025
Former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Henry Cisneros Endorses Andrew Cuomo for Mayor, Citing Proven Record of Building Affordable Housing
On the afternoon that I was nominated by President Clinton to be Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, I started studying resumes of people who would be capable leaders for the Assistant Secretary positions in the Department.  One name that was recommended multiple times was Andrew Cuomo. I had known of Andrew’s work as the founder of HELP, one of the largest and most effective homelessness service providers in New York City. Andrew also had experience developing affordable housing through another organization he had helped create, Genesis Homes in East New York in Brooklyn. He had also built an affordable complex in Manhattan.
June 16, 2025
Transcript: Governor Cuomo Delivers GOTV Remarks at Union Rally
Governor Cuomo, candidate for Mayor of New York City, was joined by over 500 hundred men and women at the GOTV rally. Cuomo emphasized the need for the Democratic Party to reconnect with its roots and deliver real results for working men and women in New York City. He pledged to launch the largest affordable housing initiative in the city’s history, built by union labor—and to raise the minimum wage, invest in public safety, and address homelessness. Urging voters to head to the polls, Cuomo reminded them that now more than ever, New York needs a leader who can forge unity and fight back against President Trump’s divisive agenda.
June 15, 2025
Transcript of Remarks: Governor Cuomo Delivers Father’s Day Remarks at St. Paul Community Baptist Church
Governor Cuomo, candidate for Mayor of New York City, joined Rev. Dr. David Keith Brawley and delivered remarks at St. Paul Community Baptist Church.
June 14, 2025
Transcript of Remarks: Governor Cuomo Delivers Remarks at Linden SDA Church
Governor Andrew Cuomo, candidate for Mayor of New York City, delivered remarks at Linden SDA Church, joined by Pastor Keith Albury, Senator James Sanders Jr., Assemblymember Alicia Hyndman, and Councilmember Selvena Brooks-Powers.
June 14, 2025
Transcript of Remarks: Governor Cuomo Delivers Remarks at National Action Network Alongside Rev. Al Sharpton
Governor Cuomo, candidate for Mayor of New York City, delivered remarks at the National Action Network in Harlem this morning, joined by Reverend Al Sharpton, Congressman Greg Meeks, Assemblymember Jordan Wright, and Assemblymember Latrice Walker. Cuomo emphasized the urgent threat posed by Donald Trump and called for Democratic unity and self-reflection ahead of the mayoral primary. He urged the party to reconnect with everyday concerns and challenged government at all levels to deliver real, equitable economic opportunities for all New Yorkers.
June 13, 2025
Transcript of Remarks: Governor Cuomo Delivers Remarks at GOTV Rally in Harlem Alongside Rep. Adriano Espaillat
Governor Cuomo, candidate for Mayor of New York City, delivered remarks at a GOTV Rally in Harlem, hosted by Congressman Adriano Espaillat and a broad coalition of voters from across the city. The rally was attended by State Senator Jessica Ramos, Assemblymember George Alvarez, Assemblymember Manny De Los Santos, Assemblymember Eddie Gibbs, and Assemblymember Yudelka Tapia. Cuomo spoke about the need for an experienced leader who can fight for New Yorkers, protect immigrants from President Trump’s attacks, and bring a vision for a new New York City. He concluded with a call to action, urging everyone to remember that early voting starts on June 14th.
June 13, 2025
Brooklyn State Senator Sam Sutton Endorses Cuomo for Mayor
Governor Andrew M. Cuomo, candidate for mayor of New York City, received the endorsement of New York State Senator Sam Sutton, who touted Cuomo’s longstanding support for the Jewish community and the urgent need for a candidate who can stand up against the DSA and their far-left, extremist political allies.