jeffrey epstein's ex-girlfriend speaking out tonight, stacey williams, a former sports illustrated model who dated epstein in the early 90s, has spent time with both epstein and donald trump together. in one disturbing alleged incident, which williams went public with last year before the presidential election, williams says trump groped her in front of epstein at trump tower in 1993. here's what she told our son, lenservati, when she first broke her silence. the second he was in front of me, he pulled me into him, and his hands were just on me and did not come off. then the hands started moving, and they were on the side of my breasts, on my hips, back down to my butt, back up sort of then, they were just on me the whole time. and i, sorry. i froze. williams also claimed that epstein and trump looked at each other and smiled during the alleged incident, which williams says she now believes was coordinated and quote some kind of weird twisted game. trump denied williams' allegations through his campaign at the time, which said in part, quote, it is obvious this fake story was contrived by kamala harris' campaign. and stacey williams is out front now to speak out for the first time since the uproar over trump's handling of the epstein case. stacey, thank you so much for joining us tonight. as you know, epstein is dominating the news once again in his relationship with trump is under scrutiny. while you were dating epstein, can you tell us how close these two men were? they were best friends. you know, i dated jeffrey for a period of more or less, i think about four or five months. and the only friend that he would mention every time we saw each other or had a phone conversation was donald. and he would share a lot of anecdotes, i have plenty of anecdotes. and yeah, they were very close and they were up to no good. and how did epstein talk about trump? sort of what was the quality of those anecdotes and how he described him? well, there was a time when he mentioned the idea to check in on him because he was unwell and very upset about something that had happened. i remember because he was late to pick me up and he was explaining why he was late. they were just, you know, it was such a long time ago, but it was just part of that was his, that was his bro, that was his wing man. it was clearly, i would hear about gilan and i would hear about jeffrey. and i met gilan in his house. she would come wafting in and out, the home in new york. so he was clearly just someone that he talked about all the time. and again, you know, i really, i met jeffrey the second time when we started dating based on the introduction, the reintroduction that happened at the plaza hotel at a christmas party in 1992 that donald trump threw. no, they were very, very close. so let us talk about this incident, a legend incident in 1993, where you say that trump grove you in front of epstein. i do want to note that cnn has spoken to three friends of yours who confirmed that you told them about this alleged incident over past decades. can you tell me more about what happened that day and particularly how trump and epstein interacted? yeah, before i get into the details of what happened, which obviously i told you guys and i have shared with multiple outlets, the specifics of the assault that happened. i want to point out that i was polygraphed before i did all this by one of the most renowned examiners in the world. michael wolfe has hundreds of hours of interviews with jeffrey epstein, where jeffrey confirmed to michael what the two of them did to me long before i came out and told you all of this. so those are two critical data points that you need to have and now i will walk you through what happened. i was dating jeffrey. he was always talking about donald. it was as bestie and everything and he was joking about how donald thought i was hot and donald thinks i am this or whatever, once to talk to you and he was telling me this as we were taking a walk down fifth avenue one day and he said, let us stop in and see him at his offices. so we went up to his office in trump tower and within a couple of minutes, jeffrey, donald was outside of his door and his hands were all over me. they were on my breasts, they were on my butt, they were on my hips up and down while the two of them just kept having a normal conversation. i do not remember exactly what was in the conversation again. this was, we are talking 90, this is 93 now. it was something about, it was irrelevant. it was like, oh, stacey's career's on fire. she just did sports all straight again, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and they were back and forth smiling and grinning and carrying on a conversation while donald ran his hands all over me. and you know, when that happens in broad daylight in someone's office and an assistant's walking back and forth, you are in shock. if it happens in a dark alleyway, right, you defend yourself, but when it is hidden in its brazenness like that, which is donald trump's forte, you know, you go into shock. so i froze and it was over and very quickly. it was a few minutes and then we got back in the elevator and jeffrey's energy had changed. he was like seething, he was enraged, he would make eye contact with me. and then we got out on the street, and he looked at me and he just started yelling at me, saying, why did you let him do that? and he was so enraged and then i remember thinking, like, why did i? i felt like i was coming back into my body at that moment and i was confused. so that is the story of the assault. and i do just want to note, stacey, that trump has denied these allegations, which you are well aware of. and i know at times you have referenced videos, which we have not confirmed the existence of, but i know that you felt that this was coordinated later when you looked back on it. what was it that made you draw that conclusion? well, i had, i was sort of known in the industry for being somewhat combative with, you know, photographers who would expose themselves or do inappropriate things or even guys who would touch or harass on the streets. and jeffrey was aware of that. and i think he was excited. i think the gist in my mind, given what he knew and the way it played out was, hey, you know, i am gonna deliver this person to you who is actually not gonna let you get away with what you do. and i did, because i froze. like i said, when it is hidden in its brazeness like that, you freeze. and, you know, he is a master of that. so i mean, he talked about it, right? he talked about pussy grabbing on the access hollywood tape. and tonight, if you are aware, president trump has filed this libel lawsuit against the wall street journal over its reporting that there was this note, bearing trump's name as a signature. in an outline of a naked woman that was included in a 50th birthday album for epstein in 2003, a note that also depicted an imaginary conversation between the two men. and part of it reads, quote, donald saying, we have certain things in common, jeffrey, jeffrey, yes, we do come to think of it. donald, enigma's never age. have you noticed that? jeffrey is a matter of fact. it was clear to me that last, the last time i saw you. and then finally, donald, a pal is a wonderful thing. happy birthday and may every day be another wonderful secret. trump called that letter fake. he said it was out of character for him because he never wrote a picture or drew a picture in his life, wrote a picture, i think he said. no, it is not his kind of language. based on your time with both men, does that sound out of character to you? what are you kidding me? i know what they were up to together. it happened to me. i was polygraphed. i have the post-assault postcard with a love note. so i have the receipts. where are donald trump's receipts? where are they? i know what they are up together and i know what that means. it is very clear. it was not baking or fishing. well, stacey williams, i really appreciate you taking the time to speak with us tonight. thank you so much. thank you.