mr. speaker, i rise today because i am furious. angry that three kids died today in nashville, tennessee. angry that hundreds of parents had to cry their eyes out today, not knowing if the child would come home from school. all of this is because politicians in this chamber that have been bought and paid for by the nra that put profits over people, over human lives, coward to wasted our time last week, passing a parental bill of rights, not giving a damn about the rights of children to be able to go to their classroom without the fear of being gunned down due to census gun violence. it is likely that at this moment, the next mass shooter is planning their shooting. what will this chamber do about it? and those are the passionate words from florida congressman max welfrost on the house floor, following the tragic shooting in nashville, tennessee, killing three adults and three nine-year-old children. welcome back to gma-3. new details are emerging on that nashville shooting from the victim's identities to the weapons used by the shoot. now this tragedy is feeling new discussions about gun control. president biden calling on congress once again to pass the assault weapons ban. and today, there is a spotlight on a new bill to establish a federal office of gun violence prevention. and that bill presented by florida democratic congressman maxwell frost, who is joining us now from washington. thanks so much for being here with us. yeah, thank you so much for having me. and as you know, we have learned the identities of these six victims in this shooting. we have three nine-year-olds, three little kids, and three adults in their 60s. now you yourself, you have called yourself, you know, part of generation lockdown. you grew up amid several mass school shootings. it is a sad reality for american kids and american families. and when you see those faces, now as a legislator, what are you thinking about? well, i am thinking about the fact that i have seen these faces, right? we know that behind every number, there is a human. and we are in a country where we lose 100 lives a day to gun violence. and to all of our parents watching, everyone must know if god forbid your child died before the age of 18, the most likely reason is because they were shot to death in this country right now. i for one find that unacceptable. i for one believe as a legislator, i have to do everything i can to fight for a world where that is not the truth. and we can have true freedom and liberty. the greatest freedom of all being the freedom to live. and that is what we are going to continue to fight for. but when i see those photos, it breaks my heart. and here's the thing, mass shootings make up 1% of gun violence. i do not say this to diminish mass shootings. i say this because this country broadly really only cares when sometimes it makes the news. and i want people to know that mass shootings happen every day all across this country. one of the greatest being in our black and brown communities on a daily basis. it is all so terrifying. congressman nashville police say that the shooter used three weapons during that shooting. we saw photos of those guns. but the shooter also bought a total of seven guns at five different stores. now it was just last year that the landmark gun control bill was passed. congressman, there are background checks in that law. how could someone get their hands on seven guns with this in place? well, actually, universal background checks are not in the safer bipartisan community or the safer communities act. so we still need universal background checks. there were expanded background checks, but not universal. there are still many loopholes that exist. we believe we have to have strong burpos, which are extreme risk protection orders, which give people in the community the ability to petition for someone to temporarily or for a while. have their weapons taken away if they see something concerning happen. florida passed this law, a weak version of it, but passed this law right after the shooting happened in parkland, florida. it is been used over 7,000 times. and as we talk about data, it is hard to track the shootings prevented. it is hard to track just how many shootings have been prevented due to these laws. but just imagine where we would be if we did not have the few laws we do have now. we need to continue to fight. and i want to let gun owners know at home. we hear this from the right all the time. democrats are trying to take your guns, take your guns. no, it is a bunch of bs. we are trying to save kids. we are trying to save the lives of our people. and it is not about confiscating guns from law-abiding americans. it is about having common sense gun reforms so we can live in a country where we do not have to fear our kids being mowed down by an ar-15 and dying in a pool of their own blood, which unfortunately is the reality for many kids right now. that is a really scary thought. and it is happening in our country all the time. now, prior to this shooting, just last week in fact, you introduced your very first piece of legislation. it is called the office of gun violence prevention act. so this is a bipartisan act. if it is passed, what exactly would it do? and would it help in a situation like this? what happened in nashville? yeah, so the office of gun violence prevention act, i believe, should have bipartisan support. it has nothing to do with gun policy, right? it is creating an office for the federal government to focus on it. and for people who do not know, the federal government currently does not have one federal office that works to coordinate among all the agencies to work to end gun violence. a lot of times after these shootings, what do you see? you see a lot of these gun violence prevention groups going to the cities, march for our lives, every town, brady. and that is great, but it is also not fair. we need our government to step up here. we need our government to work every day to solve an every day problem. and so i am hoping because this is not about gun policy, but it is about making an office. gun violence is one of the least researched causes of death in the united states. and again, what we are losing 100 lives a day due to gun violence, we need to work at researching it. so this office would help aggregate the research, aggregate the data, and provide recommendations to the congress, but also municipal governments across the country on how we can curb gun violence, both in a reactionary measures, but also preventative. and i am really a fan of preventative measures because that means nobody dies. and that is really what i think our mission should be. but we do have some data. and the cdc reported that the gun-related violence, it is the leading cause of death for children ages 1 to 19, congressman. there have been more mass shootings in the us than days in 2023. what will it take once and for all to end gun violence in this country? it is going to take a massive movement that is multigenerational, multi-generational, of people coming together demanding that enough is enough. and we have large corporate interests, the battle here. you look at a group like the nra, a lot of times people call them an advocacy group. they are not an advocacy group. they are not fighting for everyday gun owners. they are fighting for everyday gun manufacturers. it is a lobbying front for corporate profits. and they have deducted that things like universal background checks and really any gun policy brings down the bottom line of these gun manufacturers and they cannot stand for it. but we cannot stand for the fact that we are losing 100 lives a day due to the census gun violence. so we need to work to call our politicians out. let me tell you this. universal background checks are overwhelmingly popular to everybody in this country. republicans, democrats, and even nra members. in fact, most nra members are four universal background checks. so the question is this, if for the rest of the country, there is bipartisan support, which means we are all can come together agreeing on universal background checks, why does not it happen in this building? why does not it happen in congress? it is because on this issue, the word bipartisan takes a different definition and what it means is what the nra and what the gun lobby is okay with. and we have to stand up to that. so this is an issue, yeah, i mean there is issues of culture and etc. but at the end of the day, it is corporate money and people valuing profits over people. and i ran for congress to help change that. but i cannot do it alone. there is not one politician that is going to save us. we all need to come together, elect morally just leaders who actually give a damn about our lives and will value people over profits. as you mentioned, that bipartisan support there. so i spoke with a former classmate of the shooter who told me she actually received messages from hale, saying that hale wanted to die. and warning that something bad was going to happen. now this person immediately called the suicide prevention line who then directed her to authorities. by this time, it was too late. but again, she made those calls almost immediately. she did it, did not ignore those warning signs. not even for a second, also never imagining that hale had the intention to kill children. but again, took that action right away. and your opinion is that also part of the system breaking down here, right? she was directed somewhere else. after calling the number, she was supposed to call. 100%. and i am not sure exactly what tennessee's laws are. and in terms of red flag, well, laws, i am going to assume that they do not have really good, extreme risk protection orders. and when you have those laws in place, it creates a mechanism in which if you call, and you report that someone is at risk of suicide or et cetera, we also have the data that shows that same person has bought what you said. it was seven or nine, seven guns in the past x amount of months. and it puts our government a place where they can connect the dots. here's the problem. the atf needs more money so they can digitize all their files. a lot of these files are still kept in filing cabinets. republicans, especially in state legislatures, i have been fighting against any sort of people having to register or keeping tabs on when people have really unusual amounts of guns and ammunition they are buying. and i think we need to keep track of these things. just like we keep track of you when you buy a car an automobile to go where you are going. this is not a radical thought. this is common sense gun reform so we can save lives. the warning signs were there and the person took action and made the phone calls, but the systems were not in place. and this is part of the reason why it is important that we pass gun legislation at the federal level. there are states with great gun laws. and those states are some of the safest states to live in. new york city, which a lot of times republicans like to use as a talking point, has some great gun, has some of the safest gun laws and it is the safest big city in the country to live in. per capita, you are less likely to get shot in new york city than you are in a lot of these red states where there is no gun laws. and we have just a moment here. i have a look at the numbers. oh, sorry to interrupt you, congressman. we have just a moment here and i want to ask you this. it is hard to see the light in the dark right now. but congressman, do you have any hope that we will find a concrete solution to make this country safer from gun violence? i do, i do. and it is because of me, not because of people in this building, but it is because of the people who have had enough. we saw a movement rise up after parkland that called, that said, we called the es and had sweeping youth voter turnout that helped flip state legislatures that helped ensure that we elected a governing majority. and it is going to take time. sometimes you take a few steps forward and you take a few steps back and that is kind of the way our government works and that is really in the history of movements. but i believe in my heart. we will end gun violence within our lifetime because we must. i am not going to give on it as a survivor. i am not going to give up on it as a legislator. and we will continue to do it. i think about the late barbara jordan. she said it right. what the people want is simple. a country as great as its promise. part of that promise is being safe. and we are going to fight for it every day. country as great as its promise. congressman maxwell frost, thank you so much for joining us this morning. thanks for having me. well, hey there, gma fans, robin roberts here. thanks for checking out our youtube channel. lots of great stuff here. so go on, click the subscribe button right over here to get more of awesome videos and content from gma every day anytime. we thank you for watching. and we will see you in the morning on gma.