let me first of all say to god be the glory. tonight is a victory for the grassroots. tonight is a victory for courageous conservatives across iowa and all across this great nation. tonight the state of iowa has spoken. iowa has sent notice that the republican nominee and the next president of the united states will not be chosen by the media. will not be chosen by the washington establishment. will not be chosen by the lobbyists. but will be chosen by the most incredible powerful force where all sovereignty resides in our nation by we the people, the american people. tonight thanks to the incredible hard work of everyone gathered here. of courageous conservatives across this state, we together earn the votes of 48,608 islands. to put in perspective your incredible victory that you have won tonight. that is the most votes ever cast for any republican primary winner. tonight is a victory for millions of americans who have shoulder the burden of seven years of washington deals run amok. tonight is a victory for every american who is watched in dismay as career politicians in washington in both parties refuse to listen and too often fail to keep their commitments to the people. tonight is a victory for every american who understands that after we survive eight long years of the obama presidency that no one personality can write the wrongs done by washington. millions who understand that it is a commitment to the constitution to our shared insistence that we rise and return to a higher standard, the very standard that gave birth to the greatest nation that the world has ever known. tonight is a victory for every american who is watched in dismay as career politicians in both parties refuse to listen and too fail to keep their commitments to the revolutionary understanding that all men and all women are created equal. tonight is a victory for every american who is watched in dismay as career politicians in both parties refuse to listen and too fail to keep their commitments to the republican primary winner. and the federal government's role, the federal government's responsibility is to defend those fundamental rights, to defend us. and while americans will continue to suffer under a president who has set an agenda that is causing millions to hurt across this country, i want to remind you of the promise of scripture. weeping may endure for a night, but joy come within the morning. tonight iowa has proclaimed to the world morning is coming. from day one, this campaign has been a movement. from millions of americans across this country to organize, to rally, to come together, whatever washington says they cannot keep the people down. and tonight is a testament to the people's commitments, to their yearnings, to get back to our core commitments, free market principles, constitutional liberties, and the judeo-christian values that built this great nation. when the washington lobbyists settled on other candidates in this race, when the media in one voice said a conservative cannot win, nationwide, over 800,000 contributions poured in to tedcruz.org as courageous conservatives said yes we can. 800,000 contributions at tedcruz.org with an average contribution of $67. that is the power of the grassroots. but it is more than that, it is 12,000 volunteers here in the state of iowa. it is over 200,000 volunteers all across this great nation.