and we did request to talk to congresswoman sinema to react directly to this speech at this moment. her campaign declined that request, but i want to go to you now, democrat congressman gallego, your thoughts off the bat. off the bat, again, this typical person, trump, very divisive all over the place, spuing lies. and then also very supportive martha mcsally. i have known her for many years as this moderate person that you could talk to. she looked quite unhidged today. and then even more disappointed that she cannot even get the name of the police officer correct. you know, which kind of shows that she is mostly using this immigration issue as a wedgeshoe, not necessarily that she actually cares about these police officers. the police officer's name is not brian mendoza. it is brandon mendoza. and you know, for those that have known him and do know him, this is a very hurtful thing that she did. and the fact that she just brought up in a campaign speech and just threw that out there and got it wrong, i think kind of, you know, shows you know how serious she is about the issue. it is for her. it is just a wedgeshoe. it is not a personal issue like she tried to claim it is. yeah, we saw some chatter online too about that people feeling like it was turned into something political. she certainly at least should apologize to his family and to the mesa police officers that were in that room protecting her. that probably heard that and were very hurt by it. the president tonight taking a lot of jabs at the democrats, you are a democrat. he said, quote, the democrats are the party of crime. what do you say to that? well, i think that is pretty funny considering that how many people that are surrounding this president have been indicted or are currently in the process of being indicted. how many members of his cabinet have to have been reason have had to resign so far because of different scandals. in addition to the fact that we know that he himself has been involved with different types of elements in terms of people in the criminal world. so, you know, more importantly, you know, people just do not want to hear this type of rhetoric. right now, the focus most people we talk to are they are worried about health care. and i think the biggest problem that the president said right now is he outright lied and said that we are not going to take away people's pre-existing conditions. his bill did that. martha mcsally voted for that bill. and if he has his way, they are going to again, and the republicans should take power again over the house and the senate. they are going to try to pass the same bill they passed last time. and again, take away pre-existing conditions. and that in the end is why he needs to talk about all this other stuff because his bill was a horrible bill that would have actually taken away health care away from millions of people. look, we heard some hyperbole, some exaggeration slogans, which you expect to hear in campaign speeches like this. it is his job to do that. but the bottom line here is too, is the president is in a strong position. the economy doing well. 4.2% growth in the last quarter. consumer confidence, sky high. there is a reason why that place was jam-packed tonight. a lot of arizonans feel like this is the path arizonans should be on, and the country should be on. why do democrats feel like we should now turn another way compared to what you heard tonight? well, certainly what you do see is that the businesses are doing well, but it is not trickling down at all. people's wages are not getting any higher. people's mortgages are getting more expensive. people's rents are getting more expensive. everything is getting more expensive, but people's wages are not getting more expensive. the same time, we do have to turn the corner because what we have seen so far is that one of the first actions that this president did when he took power, especially when the fact that the republicans were in charge of the house and the senate, would they try to take away health care, right? and not just health care in terms of the fortwell health care act, actually went after medicaid too, which is extremely important here in arizona. and this is why at the end of the day, senator john mccain voted against the fortwell health care act because he realized it would end up affecting hundreds of thousands of poor working arizonans. so the reason we need to turn the corners is because we need to protect the american voter. we need to protect our elders. we need to protect everyone we can because the decisions they are making in washington dc are going to end up being very harmful to them. now, when it comes to voter turnout, what do you think the effect will be having the president come today? well, i think our people that are true and dependents are not going to look at this and make a decision one way or the other. i think they are going to look and evaluate the fact about who cares the senate is and whoever today martha mcsally is. she keeps changing positions. but at the end of the day, they are going to decide that on their own. i think this is a question who gets motivated out to vote. this is my opinion. i think trump voters were always motivated out to vote no matter what. i think this will motivate more democrats to come out to vote. and we have a lot of days to return ballots and to go vote. and i think that is what is going to happen. does kirsten cinema have a loyalty problem to this country? you heard it mentioned again tonight that she made a flippant comment about go ahead, join the taliban if you want. now this was a radio interview. you could say it was sarcasm 2002 2003. but some people would say, look, you do not joke about those types of issues. and of course, martha mcsally has called it treason. well, first of all, martha is running second about the president of the united states has made flippant jokes like that too. if you actually start looking back at his history, so if we are going to start taking people verbatim and not understand humor, i think we have to look at what the president has said. for example, this president may phone of senator john mccain say that i only like heroes that were not captured. somehow he is still a patriot, but because cinema makes a flippant joke, she is not. it is absolutely ridiculous. kirsten cinema has family that is in the military. she is been great on veterans issues. she is one of the strongest when it comes to veterans issues. and more importantly, the reason they are talking about this is because martha mcsally voted to take away preexisting conditions from arizona. that is the fact. and she has no other nothing else to run on. so therefore she just has to scare people and really, you know, distract people. i saw you get really angry when the cameras were not on. i do about what is up when the president mentioned we do not bow down to other leaders. right. talking about global affairs. what is it about that comment that made you so angry? the president saying here, look, we are a stronger america today in the world than we were under barack obama. well, because you know, how he is been interactive with putin, number one, i think is very disgraceful, almost really destroying our nato alliance and, you know, essentially, you know, becoming close up to putin for someone who is diametrically opposed to our world goals. number two, how he is treating right now what is occurring in saudi arabia. the fact that the saudi arabian government assassinated a us resident, a journalist, and now is actively taking part in the cover-up. not just saudi arabia, this presidency, this white house is actually helping, you know, come up with talking points and work with the cover-up with the saudi arabian government is ridiculous. so i think for him to throw that out, that out there is more projection more than anything else. all right. now you have known kirsten sinema for a long time. for our to call her friend. right. you guys are talking at this point kind of on a daily basis. the president called her an extremist. now you know her voting record. you know how she feels on the issues. what do you say in response to that? she is not an extremist look. kirsten gets it from both sides that, and you know you are doing politics well when your both sides are telling you you are not doing it correctly. right. she is thoughtful. she really listens to the constituents. she, you know, votes, i think, with her conscious and with her district. now, if you look at our records, you know, i am a little more to the left than her. but i know what she is doing. she is doing it for what she believes truly is in the heart and the best interest of arizona. okay. congressman gallego, we appreciate your perspective on this. thank you.