president trump holding a rally in phoenix this tuesday. this is some pretty big news. it is making a lot of headlines throughout the country and representative rubin gallego is joining me now to talk about this. i mean if you are a trump fan you are very excited that the president's coming back to arizona his first time as president, but if you are not a fan of president trump. you are very concerned that he is taking the time to do this given all the other stuff that is going on in the country exactly. i mean i think a lot of us are worried about what this could potentially what could eventually occur considering what just happened to charlottesville? you know this is you know a time. i think we need some healing. i do not know if it is necessary the right time to have a political rally. i am certainly encouraging people to please stay calm exercise your right frame of speech safely and peacefully, but you know, i am worried right you are worried that people are going to react negatively to it and protest outside the yeah, well, we said well, well, we have seen so far in a lot of these protestors that there is professional provocateurs that are they are trained and paid essentially to go and start these types of fights and riots types you see actually in charlottesville they fundraise money online for these trips they are largely neo-nazis or white nationalist and they go and they essentially try to start fights on the other side and in order for them to continue this this cycle of raising more money most of these guys that are out there there are neo-nazis and white nationalists and go to these rallies there there are a bunch of losers. they do not have jobs this is why they have the time of doing travel to country and they rely on like these types of actions to basically keep their their method of living and you know, it is very dangerous. we do not need this. we do not want to have more people again, we want people to exercise their freedom of speech but we do not want people to get become violent. so do you think that because president trump is having a rally in phoenix that it will attract not only his usual supporters that come out to the reality but these people that are now representing this sort of alt-right movement. well, they all right does support president trump but right, but i am saying they might not be from right here in phoenix. oh, no, no, no, they are coming. you are saying you are from out of town oh, yeah, a lot of the people that are gonna highly visible event. yeah, that is the problem most of these people are they are gonna be here causing problems or not arizona's they are gonna be from california, nevada from all over the place and they are here just to cause problems. this is not their neighborhood. they do not they do not really care about you know phoenix or arizona they just want to be able to go start a fight to get online they could raise money and they continue their kind of loser-ish kind of lifestyle so uh, karis nagayago for viewers who are not aware of what you do you are representing you know, it is a strict hearing arizona in congress you are a democrat. yep. you are on the house armed services committee. yep, and you are very vocal about your sometimes yeah physician towards president trump, right? are you surprised now or is this been long overdue that other you know some of your colleagues that are on the other side of the aisle republicans are finally coming out and speaking out against president trump well, look it is it is gonna be difficult always for republicans or any party to go out against their chief leader so you know, i wish they were done earlier, but you know, i understand the constraints and glad they are doing it i only encouraged and more it is our role in congress to keep the executive in check and i think we have to find opportunities to do that especially whenever he overstepped his boundary or just also remind him about the dignity of the office. i think that is what you saw magnum republican coming up this last week when he came to charlottesville they want to remind about the dignity of being the president the dignity of acting presidential more so than any kind of policy issue right right and another hot topic a lot of people talking about the possibility that president trump will pardon sheriff joe arpaio what are your thoughts on this? well the way that he is going about is quite unprecedented partens happen all the time, but usually you have a review process and then once you do issue a party and it is always for the persons already served their time this is a preemptive pardon. he has not been sentenced for his time he has not gone through the full court system yet so the idea that president is going to just pardon someone because they are an ally or just that appease his very very you know strong you know pro arpaio base that supports him is not the proper way to use the the pardon system you know it just sets a bad precedent now every president after that can say like well i am not going to wait for the court system to decide. i am just going to pardon you ahead of time right and the founding fathers had the separation of powers for a reason you know you have the executive branch legislative branch. he has a right to pardon i actually have nothing that i can do this. there is nothing i can do to stop him from pardoning people it is the only thing that i asked is that you should think of what as a president think about not what you are dealing with what the future president can deal with and you are changing precedent this person needs to be sentenced through the judicial system first and then make decisions but even then he is admitted to a crime the reason that this is a problem right now is because share to arpaio agreed to these terms that the federal government that told him that he had to comply with and then he went and ignored him that is also a very bad person to be setting for all you know all government officials that you could just ignore when the federal government says you would use toes. he would do something mm-hmm and i do want to get to one other topic at the topic then i know many trump supporters are passionate about something that attorney general jeff sessions has talked about a lot as well and a issue that concerns people right here in phoenix the issue of sanctuary cities. do you think that the topic that president trump is going to bring up come tuesday. what sure? i am sure she will bring it up because he needs to scare people to support him first of all, phoenix is out of sanctuary city never has been a such a city people think it as though yeah, but it is not and i think the the fact that politicians spread that lie just to basically you know cause more fear phoenix is that sanctuary city. i do not think she arizona has any sanctuary cities sanctuary is just like this buzz word the idea behind you know a community being able to call the police and not being able not being deported is really important because we do have a lot of people that are here in this country illegally we need them to call the cops because if not they are gonna get preyed upon as a matter of fact and some of the states have had you know these quote-unquote crackdowns where you have seen is a huge dip in the amount of calls for domestic violence because women are now afraid to call the cops because now they are afraid they are gonna get deported or their spouse is gonna deport it so you know it is a buzz word. it is something that is designed to scare the heck out of people if you are you know if you are caught in the commission to crime i am so you should go to jail you know if you are caught in the christian major crime and you are here illegally you should be deported right there is no doubt there has been mistakes have done in the past but the idea that the phoenix is somehow sanctuary city is just a buzz word that politicians like to use basically scare more support i see i see well. i do appreciate you joining me here. it is your august recess. it is yeah what do you get to do when you know you are not busy? doing the whole congressman thing when you are here in phoenix you ever get some downtime just for yourself yeah, no, you know, i have a young son so i am spending on time with him and see, i guess at some point i will take a vacation i have not decided when and you know just actually a lot of netflix binging and what shows right now. i am catching up on game of thrones. i finally finished up a boardwalk empire, okay, and i am trying to say what is the next show? i am gonna try to pick up it sounds like you are more into dramas and comedy i mean i work in congress. i see comedy all the time i do not need to add any more speaking of congress. i want you are taking. you know, i want you i want your opinion obviously there might be some partisanship when answering this question. how do you compare the last seven months? uh? you know in dc to the last seven months of 2016 that is i mean, it is not a fair comparison right largely because yeah, i think i was not there for when the when president obama first got into office so, but i mean just within congress. let us just say the comparisons of things congress white house decide white house aside just kind of the vibe there. i mean you experience the end of president obama's the presidency and the beginning of president trump's presidency and what vibe are you gonna? i mean what is your insight like? i would say like there is less direction right now within congress then there was before even in the last congress, you know the republicans were in charge and and this one the republicans are in charge but there were more focus last congress and right now they are not very focused they do not know what to what they are doing the every day. they are kind of just ansi wondering what is gonna happen to what the white house is gonna say and obviously since we are not in charge we are just trying to you know figure out how to work with them or just try to bring sustainability, you know the most important thing we got to deal with next is a debt limit if we do not fix the debt limit we are going to basically put this country into recession unnecessarily so right and a lot of people who supported trump voted for trump because they felt like he was a business man and really on the economy. yes, and so this is an area where democrats are republicans and president trump's administration just need to put it all aside get the debt limit done because it is not we are gonna crash realists 401k. we are gonna put ourselves a recession so can they put all the partisan ship inside because i just feel like it is been a while since you have really seen both sides working together. i mean there were a few issues like human trafficking i often see both sides working together, but we have done it. it look. it is very simple. all you got to do and this is the we our position has never been this have a clean debt limit no one making any demands. let us just get get this through let us get through this let us not get ourselves in the recession what we do not want to do is go back to the days where everyone tries to pour straight and ask for you know i want to this special to project where i want to take money away from this program in order for me to get that vote so we are not gonna play that game as democrats we are here to support the the economy and just pass this so that way we can keep moving forward and not have any you know any hiccups all right left question. what did your hope for congress for the white house for dc in the coming month? i mean, preferably just to get the debt limit done and you know stabilize our budgets get that done and then everyone just go home it is not necessarily a good thing when congress is not session actually sometimes it is best that we actually are not doing anything take a break take a break. yeah, all right. a representative ruben gallagher. go join me here in the news now studio viewers i want to go ahead and give you guys now a live look at the phoenix skyline. it is lovely is not that love it? so i lived here do you think that is a view from my house or my area? you please