Washington, D.C. –
Today, U.S. Senators Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Mark Warner (D-Va.), and Shelley Moore Capito (R-W. Va.) introduced the bipartisan
Alzheimer’s Screening and Prevention (ASAP) Act
, which would require the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to create a pathway to cover blood biomarker tests approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the early detection of Alzheimer’s disease. U.S. Representative Vern Buchanan (R-Fla.-16) has introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives.
Nearly
55,000 Nevadans
are currently living with Alzheimer’s, but as many as half of them have not been formally diagnosed. The FDA approved the first blood-based biomarker test for use by primary care physicians earlier this year, but physicians could be hesitant to use the tests if they are not reimbursed by CMS.
“My grandmother lived with Alzheimer’s disease for many years, so I know the pain and distress this illness can cause to patients and loved ones alike,”
said Senator Cortez Masto.
“The sooner this disease is detected, the sooner patients and their families can seek treatment and make plans for the future. I’ll never stop working across the aisle to ensure Nevada’s seniors have access to the health care they need.”
“Alzheimer’s is one of the greatest public health challenges of our time, affecting more than seven million Americans, including nearly 29,000 people in Maine. Early diagnosis is essential, yet too many patients continue to go undiagnosed until their symptoms become severe,”
said Senator Collins.
“Our bipartisan ASAP Act would require Medicare to cover FDA-approved blood tests for Alzheimer’s, expanding access to earlier testing, and giving patients and their families more time to plan, seek support, and pursue the best options for care for their loved ones.”
Specifically, the
ASAP Act
would:
Create the authority for CMS to cover FDA-approved blood-based dementia screening tests; and
Maintain CMS’ authority to use an evidence-based process to determine coverage parameters for these new tests.
The
ASAP Act
has been endorsed by the Alzheimer’s Association.
“New blood tests that can detect Alzheimer’s are coming soon. We need legislative action now so people living with the disease can access them without delay,”
said Robert Egge, chief public policy officer of the Alzheimer’s Association and president of the Alzheimer’s Impact Movement.
“The ASAP Act makes that possible, removing barriers and opening the door to earlier care and better outcomes. We’re grateful for the longstanding bipartisan commitment of these congressional champions and their leadership on this landmark legislation. Together, we can make this bipartisan bill deliver for the Alzheimer’s community.”
The full text of the legislation can be found
here
.
Senator Cortez Masto is a leader in the Senate in ensuring older Nevadans can access quality, affordable health care. She is a leader on
bipartisan legislation
to provide funding for critical funding to combat Alzheimer’s disease and support caregivers and their families. She worked to
eliminate
the Republican policy that blocks Medicare from negotiating the price of blockbuster drugs. She cosponsored bipartisan bills to
require
Medicare regulators to update the definition of a third-party marketing organization, making it easier to regulate predatory high-volume call centers that can take advantage of seniors and to
improve
Medicare Advantage’s billing practices. She has also
led bipartisan legislation
to help small non-profits offer retirement plans.
###
Print
Email
Share
Share
Previous Article
Next Article