Oct 30, 2025
|
Press Releases
Today, the California Republican House Delegation released the following statement on the negative impacts of Gov. Gavin Newsom’s energy policies:
“California families and small businesses are getting crushed every day by the high cost of energy in California that is a direct result of the radical policies put in place by Governor Gavin Newsom. The high cost of electricity and gasoline has resulted in higher energy expenses as well as inflated costs for goods and services throughout the economy.
Households and job creators aren’t the only ones feeling the pain from these high energy costs and the shortage behind them. California is home to the highest number of active-duty personnel and major military bases. The Governor’s war on energy in California is threatening our national security and is of significant concern as we increasingly shift our focus to confront potential threats in the Pacific.
For the sake of California families, small businesses, and our military, our delegation is calling on Gov. Newsom to reverse his devastating energy policies that are severely raising costs.”
THE HIGH COST OF ENERGY IN CALIFORNIA
California’s residential and commercial electricity rates are the highest in the nation’s lower 48 states. (Source:
CalMatters
)
Residential average electric rates have seen significant increases in recent years, including a 41% increase for PG&E ratepayers and 24% for SCE ratepayers over the past three years. (Source:
Public Advocates Office
)
SCE recently announced residential electric rates were increased by approximately 13% starting with ratepayers October bill. (Source:
SCE
)
California’s statewide average price for a gallon of regular gas, $4.59, is the highest in the country (Source:
AAA
, 10/27/25)
The Phillips 66 refinery in Wilmington received its last shipment of crude oil in September and will close after that oil is processed. (Source:
LA Times
)
Valero Energy plans to cease refining operations at its Benicia oil refinery by the end of April 2026. (Source:
E&E News
)
The closures of the Phillips 66 and Valero refineries will result in California losing 17% of its oil refinery capacity. (Source:
The Business Journal
)
Signup to receive our
Email Newsletters
Subscribe
The Latest News
Reps. Kim, Beatty Introduce Resolution Recognizing October as National Financial Planning Month
Nov 21, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan...
Rep Young Kim Leads Bill to Support First Responders, Help Prevent Wildfires
Nov 18, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fire Innovation...
Rep Young Kim Votes to Release the Epstein Files
Nov 18, 2025
Today, Rep. Young Kim (CA-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the Epstein Files.  “The American...
Read More News