Nov 13, 2025
|
Press Releases
WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congresswoman Young Kim released the following statement about her vote to end the Democratic-driven shutdown and open up the United States government for the American people.
“From day one, I have said that shutdowns achieve nothing and only hurt the Americans we are all here to serve,”
said Rep. Young Kim.
“Washington Democrats have dragged our troops, TSA agents, federal workers — and our economy — through the mud for over 40 days just to appease their far-left base and derail President Trump’s America-first agenda. I’m proud to vote for this commonsense measure to open our government.”
Rep. Young Kim continued,
“Today’s vote means vulnerable children, veterans, and seniors will receive vital food assistance. It means TSA agents and air traffic controllers will be paid for their essential work, and families can get home to see their loved ones in time for the holidays. It also means that our nation’s servicemembers and law enforcement, who make tremendous sacrifices for our country, can defend our country with the certainty of a paycheck. I’m glad to see that Democrats have finally relented and we can now get back to work for the American people.”
Congresswoman Young Kim, who previously
voted
on September 19, 2025, to maintain government operations, continues her record of responsible leadership and fiscal accountability to the American people with today’s vote.
Read the continuing resolution bill text
HERE
.
Signup to receive our
Email Newsletters
Subscribe
The Latest News
Reps. Kim, Beatty Introduce Resolution Recognizing October as National Financial Planning Month
Nov 21, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan...
Rep Young Kim Leads Bill to Support First Responders, Help Prevent Wildfires
Nov 18, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fire Innovation...
Rep Young Kim Votes to Release the Epstein Files
Nov 18, 2025
Today, Rep. Young Kim (CA-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the Epstein Files.  “The American...
Read More News