Sep 19, 2025
|
Press Releases
Washington, DC—Today, the House Foreign Affairs Committee passed a series of bills to authorize the U.S. State Department and revitalize U.S. diplomatic capabilities. This is the first comprehensive reauthorization of the State Department in nearly two decades.
This package includes the PROFIT Act of 2025, introduced by East Asia and Pacific Subcommittee Chair Young Kim (CA-40), which strengthens America’s economic statecraft and empowers diplomats to advance U.S. interests abroad.
“I have long said that economic security is national security. Now, for the first time in decades, our diplomatic compass is finally pointing in a more strategic direction,”
said Rep. Young Kim.
“Today’s vote proves that America is serious about securing its role on the world stage. I am proud to have worked alongside the administration and Chairman Mast to restore U.S. economic leadership, equip our diplomats to stand up for American workers and businesses, and ensure the United States can outcompete our adversaries.”
Alongside the PROFIT Act of 2025, Rep. Kim advanced several amendments adopted in the final package of bills:
Manager’s Amendment – Enhances the State Department’s economic expertise by ensuring qualified personnel in the Office of the Chief Economist, granting direct hiring authority for technical experts, establishing the Office of Strategic Currency Diplomacy, and updating authorities for the Bureau of Cyberspace and Digital Policy.
Office of Subnational Diplomacy Amendment – Co-locates the Office of Subnational Diplomacy in Los Angeles to serve as a partner for local and state governments to attract foreign investment, especially in preparation for the 2026 World Cup and 2028 Los Angeles Olympics.
ARMOR Act – Boosts defense collaboration among the AUKUS partners, Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States, by cutting bureaucratic obstacles and reforming outdated export controls.
Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies Act – Strengthens U.S. leadership in global maternal and child health by advancing low-cost and effective solutions like multiple micronutrient supplements (MMS) or modern prenatal vitamins.
Watch Rep. Kim speak on behalf of the PROFIT Act of 2025
HERE
.
Signup to receive our
Email Newsletters
Subscribe
The Latest News
Reps. Kim, Beatty Introduce Resolution Recognizing October as National Financial Planning Month
Nov 21, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan...
Rep Young Kim Leads Bill to Support First Responders, Help Prevent Wildfires
Nov 18, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fire Innovation...
Rep Young Kim Votes to Release the Epstein Files
Nov 18, 2025
Today, Rep. Young Kim (CA-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the Epstein Files.  “The American...
Read More News