Sep 23, 2025
|
Press Releases
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) introduced a bipartisan resolution to recognize September as National Children’s Emotional Wellness Month and raise awareness around children’s emotional health.
1 in 5 children in America struggle with emotional, mental, or behavioral disorders, yet only 20 percent receive specialized care. This resolution aims to highlight the challenges faced by children and encourage national awareness, support, and improved access to mental health care.
“Children today have experienced unprecedented academic disruption, social isolation, and the loss of caregivers due to the COVID-19 pandemic. At the same time, many kids have access to a smartphone before they even enter middle school,”
said Rep. Young Kim
. “Together, these challenges put children at greater risk of anxiety, depression, and stress. As we face these realities, we must ensure every child has access to the care and support they need. I’m proud to work alongside Reps. Watson Coleman and Correa to raise awareness of this issue and start building a better path forward for our youth.”
“Across the country, there is a crisis of despair afflicting too many of our young people. We have an obligation to ensure young people in this country have the opportunity to live happy, fulfilling lives,”
said Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman.
“Recognition of the mental health crisis in America is bipartisan. Democrats and Republicans are talking about mental health in ways that we simply did not see five to ten years ago. I’m grateful to Rep. Kim for her partnership in advancing awareness and potential solutions to this crisis.”
“From increasing cases of anxiety to growing rates of depression, far too many Orange County children face mental health challenges,”
said Rep. Lou Correa.
“This resolution sheds light on this issue and pushes us all to work together and help our kids.”
Read the resolution
HERE
.
Signup to receive our
Email Newsletters
Subscribe
The Latest News
Reps. Kim, Beatty Introduce Resolution Recognizing October as National Financial Planning Month
Nov 21, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan...
Rep Young Kim Leads Bill to Support First Responders, Help Prevent Wildfires
Nov 18, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fire Innovation...
Rep Young Kim Votes to Release the Epstein Files
Nov 18, 2025
Today, Rep. Young Kim (CA-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the Epstein Files.  “The American...
Read More News