Oct 1, 2025
|
Press Releases
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) released the following statement after government funding for Fiscal Year 2025 ran out, causing a federal government shutdown.
“Last night, Washington failed the American people,”
said Rep. Young Kim.
“Government shutdowns achieve nothing and hurt the hardworking Americans we’re all here to serve. I
voted
to keep the government open for our families, veterans, small businesses, and servicemembers who rely on government services. Washington democrats decided to play political games and shut our government down at the expense of the American people.”
Rep. Young Kim continued,
“Americans deserve better than this. We must work together to responsibly fund our government. That’s why I supported a clean, short-term, bipartisan government funding bill to preserve progress on full-year appropriations and give Congress time to finish the job. I will keep working around the clock to get our government back up and running and keep our commitments to the American people.”
Rep. Kim’s offices in Washington, Anaheim Hills, and Mission Viejo will remain open to serve constituents and help them navigate federal agencies at this time.
Congresswoman Young Kim has also written a
letter
requesting that her salary be withheld until the government is back open and serving the American people.
Signup to receive our
Email Newsletters
Subscribe
The Latest News
Reps. Kim, Beatty Introduce Resolution Recognizing October as National Financial Planning Month
Nov 21, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan...
Rep Young Kim Leads Bill to Support First Responders, Help Prevent Wildfires
Nov 18, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fire Innovation...
Rep Young Kim Votes to Release the Epstein Files
Nov 18, 2025
Today, Rep. Young Kim (CA-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the Epstein Files.  “The American...
Read More News