Sep 19, 2025
|
Press Releases
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) voted in favor of the Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act of 2026 to temporarily extend government funding and avoid a costly shutdown.
“History has shown that government shutdowns achieve nothing and cost the American people far too much,”
said Rep. Young Kim.
“We cannot allow families to lose access to vital services, seniors who depend on Social Security to face harmful delays, or servicemembers standing watch overseas to worry about whether their families can pay the bills. I was proud to support this continuing resolution to honor our troops, protect our most vulnerable, and put the American people first.”
The Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2026 will:
Extend government funding at FY25 levels through November 21, 2025, avoiding a costly shutdown.
Extend programs at the Department of Veterans Affairs, ensuring continued care and benefits for veterans.
Carry forward prior CR program extensions, including the National Flood Insurance Program and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families.
Ensure the Department of Agriculture can continue providing food assistance for low-income women, infants, and children (WIC).
Extend critical health programs, including community health centers, rural hospital payments, and Medicare telehealth flexibilities.
Authorize the Department of Homeland Security to mitigate threats from unmanned aerial systems.
Provide authorities to continue the Virginia Class Submarine Program and extend the Defense Production Act.
Extend the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act and state/local cybersecurity grant programs to protect federal and local networks.
Rep. Kim spoke in favor of the resolution on the House floor. You can watch her speech
HERE
and read the bill
HERE
.
Signup to receive our
Email Newsletters
Subscribe
The Latest News
Reps. Kim, Beatty Introduce Resolution Recognizing October as National Financial Planning Month
Nov 21, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan...
Rep Young Kim Leads Bill to Support First Responders, Help Prevent Wildfires
Nov 18, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fire Innovation...
Rep Young Kim Votes to Release the Epstein Files
Nov 18, 2025
Today, Rep. Young Kim (CA-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the Epstein Files.  “The American...
Read More News