Nov 6, 2025
|
Press Releases
Today, Congresswoman Young Kim (CA-40) sent a letter to Gavin Newsom demanding a thorough investigation into fraud in California’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), known as CalFresh, to ensure illegal aliens are not prioritized over Californians and that vital food services reach California’s most vulnerable communities for whom the program was intended.
More than
$10.5 billion
in improper SNAP payments were issued in fiscal year 2023 alone, according to the Government Accountability Office (GAO). As the Democrat-driven government shutdown endures and resources are stretched thin, it is more critical than ever that California take swift action to prevent abuse, enforce eligibility, and make sure benefits are directed to those who truly need the assistance.
“Over 152,000 federal workers living in California — workers that provide services for the entire state — have missed their paychecks. This shutdown has jeopardized federal food assistance for more than 5 million Californians enrolled in CalFresh. I applaud the President for partially funding November 2025 benefits through the SNAP Contingency Fund, but benefits cannot be fully restored until Democrats quit playing politics and reopen our government,”
the letter reads.
The letter continues,
“It is essential that we root out fraud in CalFresh, including providing benefits to illegal aliens, so that our low-income children, seniors, and veterans who are American citizens can receive their benefits during this Democrat-caused shutdown.”
The letter presses Governor Newsom for details on how California is ensuring program integrity and preventing unlawful access to CalFresh benefits, including:
Actions the state has taken to detect, prevent, and respond to fraud and abuse in CalFresh;
Implementation of federal guidance since April 2025 to ensure illegal immigrants are not receiving benefits intended for eligible Californians;
Oversight mechanisms to verify eligibility and ensure county and local offices follow federal verification rules consistently;
Data on SAVE system verifications, including total checks conducted and rates of ineligibility findings.
Read the full letter
HERE
.
Signup to receive our
Email Newsletters
Subscribe
The Latest News
Reps. Kim, Beatty Introduce Resolution Recognizing October as National Financial Planning Month
Nov 21, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan...
Rep Young Kim Leads Bill to Support First Responders, Help Prevent Wildfires
Nov 18, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fire Innovation...
Rep Young Kim Votes to Release the Epstein Files
Nov 18, 2025
Today, Rep. Young Kim (CA-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the Epstein Files.  “The American...
Read More News