Sep 18, 2025
|
Press Releases
Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Kathy Castor (FL-14) introduced the bipartisan SHINE for Autumn Act to improve stillbirth research and data collection and help prevent stillbirth in the United States.
According to the CDC, stillbirth affects 1 in 175 pregnancies, with over 20,000 babies born still each year. In the United States, the annual number of stillbirths far exceeds the number of deaths among children aged 0-14 years from accidents, preterm birth, SIDS, drownings, fire, and flu combined.
“As a mom and a grandma, I have experienced both the joys of pregnancy and pain of loss firsthand. Helping moms, moms-to-be, and their babies is personal to me,”
said Rep. Young Kim.
“Far too many families in our nation experience the heartbreak of stillbirth, yet this enduring crisis remains overlooked and underfunded. The SHINE for Autumn Act will give us the tools to better understand, prevent, and respond to stillbirths, while ensuring moms, babies, and families receive the support they deserve. I’m proud to lead this bipartisan effort to bring hope and solutions to families across the country.”
“Too many families are suffering from the heartbreak of losing a baby to stillbirth, and it’s past time for Congress to step up and provide tools to save mothers and babies,”
said Rep. Kathy Castor.
“The maternal and infant health crisis is devastating to all, and there is still so much we don’t know due to barriers in data collection. Estimates are that nearly one in four stillbirths could be prevented – that means lives saved and families spared enormous pain. That’s why I am proud to work with bipartisan colleagues, Reps. Kim, Kelly and Joyce and Sens. Booker and Daines in reintroducing the SHINE for Autumn Act. Together, we can reduce stillbirths, close gaps in care and improve outcomes for moms and babies across the nation.”
“Despite spending the most money on healthcare per capita in the world, the United States has failed to make significant improvements when it comes to understanding and preventing stillbirths,”
said Rep. David Joyce (OH-14).
“Congress must step up to prevent this avoidable loss of life. This legislation marks a long-overdue step forward in addressing stillbirths, advancing maternal and infant health, and ensuring the United States catches up to where it should be in prioritizing this critical issue. I am proud to again co-lead this bipartisan bill that will help save lives across the country.”
“Stillbirth is a deeply painful experience for mothers and families,”
said Rep. Robin Kelly, co-chair of the bipartisan Maternity Care Caucus (IL-02).
“I’m incredibly thankful for Debbie’s brave advocacy as she turns her pain into action so no other family will experience heartbreaking stillbirth. I’m committed to delivering the healthy pregnancy and life every mother and baby deserves.”
“Stillbirth is a quiet crisis that leaves too many families grieving without answers. As a dad of six, I can’t imagine the pain of losing a child and I believe parents deserve better,”
said Rep. Zach Nunn (IA-03).
“This bill brings states and doctors together to close the gaps in research, improve data, and give families clearer paths to prevention. It’s a commonsense, bipartisan step toward saving lives and strengthening care.”
“Stillbirth is a tragedy faced by thousands of moms and families every year, both in Montana and throughout the nation,”
said Senator Steve Daines (R-MT), who is leading a companion bill in the Senate.
“I’m glad to join my colleagues on this bipartisan bill to help expand research, education, and data collection surrounding stillbirths, so we can save lives and provide hope for stillbirth families.”
“Nobody should have to experience the immense sorrow of losing a baby,”
said Senator Booker (D-NJ), who is leading
the Senate companion bill alongside Senator Daines
.
“We must address the maternal and infant health crisis that continues to result in thousands of families grappling with the unthinkable every year in the United States. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation is aimed at increasing data collection, research, education, and public awareness around stillbirths so we can save lives and put an end to this crisis.”
The SHINE for Autumn Act aims to bridge gaps in stillbirth data, research, and education by:
Providing grants to states to support consistent, secure data collection, assessment, and reporting on stillbirth and risk factors;
Strengthening privacy protections to ensure sensitive health data is protected; and
Directing the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), in coordination with health care providers, to develop best practices and educational materials for state health departments on stillbirth data collection and prevention strategies.
The SHINE for Autumn Act is named in honor of Autumn Joy, who was born still on July 8, 2011. Her mother, Debbie Haine Vijayvergiya, has spent more than a decade advocating for families and giving a voice to the stillbirth community.
Read the bill
HERE
.
Signup to receive our
Email Newsletters
Subscribe
The Latest News
Reps. Kim, Beatty Introduce Resolution Recognizing October as National Financial Planning Month
Nov 21, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan...
Rep Young Kim Leads Bill to Support First Responders, Help Prevent Wildfires
Nov 18, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fire Innovation...
Rep Young Kim Votes to Release the Epstein Files
Nov 18, 2025
Today, Rep. Young Kim (CA-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the Epstein Files.  “The American...
Read More News