Nov 18, 2025
|
Press Releases
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fire Innovation Unit Act with Representative Jason Crow (CO-06) and Senators Ben Ray Luján (NM) and John Curtis (UT) to expand access to wildfire prevention, detection, and mitigation technologies.
The Fire Innovation Unit Act establishes a coordinated, multi-agency pilot program for private entities to deploy emerging wildfire technologies directly alongside federal agencies. Under the bill, the Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior will jointly oversee technology testing during real-time wildfire mitigation activities and training.
“Too many in our community know the devastation of wildfires firsthand, and our first responders are already stretched thin,”
said Rep. Young Kim.
“Our firefighters deserve every tool available to save lives, protect property, and keep our communities safe. From early detection systems to AI-enabled modeling, innovative technologies can transform wildfire response. The Fire Innovation Unit Act leverages private-sector innovation so proven technologies can get into the field faster.”
“As wildfires continue to wreak havoc on communities across New Mexico and the country, we must find innovative tools and technologies to combat the ever-changing threats posed by wildfires,”
said Senator Luján.
“That’s why I’m proud to introduce my bipartisan Fire Innovation Unit Act, legislation that would allow us to develop and deploy innovative wildfire prevention and mitigation technologies. I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this legislation passed and boost our wildfire prevention and mitigation capabilities.”
“Each year, wildfires continue to intensify and threaten the safety and livelihoods of far too many Coloradans all across our state,”
said Congressman Crow.
“It’s time we take action, and that’s why I’m glad to lead this bipartisan bill that will allow us to invest in technologies to better protect our communities.”
Congresswoman Young Kim previously introduced the Fire Innovation Unit Act as the Wildfire Technology DEMO Act in the 118
th
Congress, which
passed the House
in the Fix Our Forests Act.
Read bill text
HERE
.
Signup to receive our
Email Newsletters
Subscribe
The Latest News
Reps. Kim, Beatty Introduce Resolution Recognizing October as National Financial Planning Month
Nov 21, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan...
Rep Young Kim Votes to Release the Epstein Files
Nov 18, 2025
Today, Rep. Young Kim (CA-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the Epstein Files.  “The American...
Rep. Young Kim Votes to Open the Government for the American People
Nov 13, 2025
WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congresswoman Young Kim released the following statement about her vote to end the...
Read More News