Nov 21, 2025
|
Press Releases
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan Financial Literacy & Wealth Creation Caucus, introduced a resolution to designate October as National Financial Planning Month.
The resolution underscores the importance of improving financial education, expanding access to financial planning services, and empowering Americans to make informed financial decisions that strengthen their long-term security.
“Too many families are stretched thin trying to afford everyday necessities, set aside emergency savings, and plan for retirement,”
said Rep. Young Kim.
“Financial planning helps Americans invest in their future and prepare for the unexpected. As Co-Chair of the Financial Literacy & Wealth Creation Caucus, I’m proud to partner with Rep. Beatty to highlight the need for financial education and ensure more Americans have the tools they need to build long-term financial security.”
“Regardless of household income, financial planning is beneficial at every stage of life, particularly when rising prices are making it harder for families to reach their goals,”
said Congresswoman Beatty.
“As Co-Chair of the Financial Literacy and Wealth Creation Caucus, I am committed to expanding access to trusted financial guidance for hardworking Americans. As families prepare for holiday spending and look ahead to a new year, this month is a timely reminder of the importance of financial planning in helping to build stability, confidence, and long-term economic well-being.”
The resolution aims to increase national awareness of financial planning and encourage activities that strengthen financial literacy by:
Increasing public awareness about the importance of financial planning;
Expanding financial education in schools and colleges;
Promoting access to trusted financial planning services;
Helping Americans make informed decisions on budgeting, saving, investing, and retirement;
Supporting pro bono initiatives that provide no-cost financial guidance to underserved and economically vulnerable families.
Read bill text
HERE
.
Signup to receive our
Email Newsletters
Subscribe
The Latest News
Rep Young Kim Leads Bill to Support First Responders, Help Prevent Wildfires
Nov 18, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fire Innovation...
Rep Young Kim Votes to Release the Epstein Files
Nov 18, 2025
Today, Rep. Young Kim (CA-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the Epstein Files.  “The American...
Rep. Young Kim Votes to Open the Government for the American People
Nov 13, 2025
WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congresswoman Young Kim released the following statement about her vote to end the...
Read More News