Sep 10, 2025
|
Press Releases
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) voted to support the Fiscal Year 2026 National Defense Authorization Act (FY26 NDAA) to ensure the United States maintains peace through strength and provides servicemembers with the resources they need to protect American freedoms at home and abroad.
“As China, North Korea, Russia, and Iran march in lockstep, flaunting their Unholy Alliance, America must lead with resolve. Now more than ever, we cannot let our guard down,”
said Rep. Kim, Chairwoman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee East Asia and the Pacific.
“I’m proud to support this NDAA that improves quality of life for servicemembers, strengthens Indo-Pacific alliances, and equips our military with the tools they need to deter aggression and protect our freedoms from threats around the globe. Our men and women in uniform—including those across Southern California—deserve nothing less.”
The FY26 NDAA helps ensure our troops are mission-ready to deter and combat growing threats and aggression from adversaries by:
Reforming the DoD acquisition process to cut through bureaucratic red tape and speed up delivery of innovative technologies to our forces;
Strengthening our fighting force with investments in shipbuilding, aircraft modernization, and missile defense programs;
Securing America’s borders and fighting drug trafficking by expanding DoD authorities to support DHS counter-narcotics and border security operations.
Support our allies by boosting funding for U.S.–Israel joint missile defense programs like Iron Dome and David’s Sling and the Taiwan Security Cooperation Initiative while enhancing joint military exercises with partners like South Korea, Australia, Japan, and the Philippines.
Reviving the U.S. defense industrial base by strengthening supply chain transparency and resilience against Chinese and adversarial influence.
Saving taxpayer dollars and enhancing fiscal responsibility by eliminating $20 billion in wasteful spending.
The FY26 NDAA also improves quality of life for our brave men and women in uniform by:
Providing a 3.8% pay raise for all servicemembers and reauthorizing bonuses;
Increasing Family Separation Allowance and funding new housing, schools, hospitals, and childcare centers for military families;
Expanding access to medical care, including OBGYN services, and ensuring resources for mental health support.
Signup to receive our
Email Newsletters
Subscribe
The Latest News
Reps. Kim, Beatty Introduce Resolution Recognizing October as National Financial Planning Month
Nov 21, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan...
Rep Young Kim Leads Bill to Support First Responders, Help Prevent Wildfires
Nov 18, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fire Innovation...
Rep Young Kim Votes to Release the Epstein Files
Nov 18, 2025
Today, Rep. Young Kim (CA-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the Epstein Files.  “The American...
Read More News