Sep 10, 2025
|
Press Releases
Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40), Chairwoman of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on East Asia and the Pacific, introduced the PROFIT Act of 2025 as part of the State Department authorization process to strengthen America’s economic statecraft. The bill comprehensively restores and reinforces the Department’s leadership on commercial diplomacy, energy security, and international economic policy for the first time in over two decades.
“For too long, misplaced priorities from Washington have scattered our most vital diplomatic tools across agencies, ceding economic influence and handing China the keys to exploit U.S. companies and global markets,”
said Rep. Young Kim.
“I have long said that economic security is national security. It’s time we start acting like it. This legislation restores America’s economic leadership at the State Department, empowers our diplomats to fight for American workers and businesses abroad, and ensures that our nation stays competitive in critical technologies, trade, and energy.”
The PROFIT Act of 2025 builds on Rep. Kim’s efforts to reauthorize the State Department and strengthen America’s partnerships in the Indo-Pacific and beyond.
Specifically, the bill streamlines and modernizes the State Department to meet 21
st
century threats by:
Restructuring the Office of the Undersecretary for Economic Affairs to ensure American companies are globally competitive, have expanded access to international markets, and benefit from reinforced U.S. leadership in energy, trade, and innovation.
Establishing the Commercial Diplomacy Bureau to strategically advocate for U.S. businesses overseas, safeguard economic interests, and strengthen national security through robust oversight of foreign investments and stronger trade policies that protect American intellectual property and jobs.
Launching a Bureau for Water, Environment, and Space Affairs to advance bipartisan interests in environmental sustainability, clean technology, oceans policy, and commercial space.
Creating the Energy Security and Diplomacy Bureau, a dedicated entity to secure critical minerals supply chains, advance U.S. energy interests abroad, and reduce America’s dependence on foreign adversaries.
Read the bill
HERE
.
Signup to receive our
Email Newsletters
Subscribe
The Latest News
Reps. Kim, Beatty Introduce Resolution Recognizing October as National Financial Planning Month
Nov 21, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Young Kim (CA-40) and Joyce Beatty (OH-03), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan...
Rep Young Kim Leads Bill to Support First Responders, Help Prevent Wildfires
Nov 18, 2025
Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Young Kim (CA-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral Fire Innovation...
Rep Young Kim Votes to Release the Epstein Files
Nov 18, 2025
Today, Rep. Young Kim (CA-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the Epstein Files.  “The American...
Read More News