you will say, you will say, you will say, you will say. ladies and gentlemen, please welcome the vice president-elect of the united states, kevin o'meck. peace! thanks. we are gonna announce this now. i am gonna announce that. cheers! this is a historic night. the american people have spoken, and the american people have elected their new champion. america has elected a new president, and it is almost hard for me to express the honor that i and my family feel that we will have the privilege to serve as your vice president of the united states of america. i come to this moment, i come to this moment deeply humbled. grateful to god for his amazing grace. grateful to my family, my wonderful wife karen, our son michael and his fiance sarah, our daughter audrey far away and our daughter charlotte. i could not be here without them, and i am deeply grateful to the american people. for placing their confidence in this team and giving us this opportunity to serve. and i am mostly grateful to our president elect, whose leadership and vision will make america great again. so let me say, it is my high honor and distinct privilege to introduce to you the president elect of the united states of america donald trump. thank you. thank you very much everybody. sorry to keep you waiting, complicated business, complicated. thank you very much. i have just received a call from secretary clinton. she congratulated us, it is about us on our victory, and i congratulated her and her family on a very, very hard fought campaign. i mean, she fought very hard. hillary has worked very long and very hard over a long period of time, and we owe her a major debt of gratitude for her service to our country. i mean that very sincerely. now it is time for america to divine the wounds of division, have to get together. to all republicans and democrats and independents across this nation, i say it is time for us to come together as one united people. it is time. i pledge to every citizen of our land that i will be president for all americans, and this is so important to me. for those who have chosen not to support me in the past of which there were a few people, i am reaching out to you for your guidance and your help so that we can work together and unify our great country. as i have said from the beginning, ours was not a campaign, but rather an incredible and great movement, made up of millions of hardworking men and women who love their country and want a better, brighter future for themselves and for their family. it is a movement comprised of americans from all races, religions, backgrounds and beliefs who want and expect our government to serve the people and serve the people it will. we will begin the urgent task of rebuilding our nation and renewing the american dream. i have spent my entire life in business looking at the untapped potential in projects and in people all over the world. that is now what i want to do for our country. i have got to know our country so well, tremendous potential. it is going to be a beautiful thing. every single american will have the opportunity to realize his or her fullest potential. they are forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer. we are going to fix our inner cities and rebuild our highways, bridges, tunnels, airports, schools, hospitals. we are going to rebuild our infrastructure, which will become, by the way, second to none. and we will put millions of our people to work as we rebuild it. we will also finally take care of our great veterans. we have been so loyal and i have got to know so many over this 18-month journey. the time i have spent with them during this campaign has been among my greatest honors. our veterans are incredible people. we will embark upon a project of national growth and renewal. i will harness the creative talents of our people and we will call upon the best and brightest to leverage their tremendous talent for the benefit of all. it is going to happen. we have a great economic plan. we will double our growth and have the strongest economy anywhere in the world. at the same time, we will get along with all other nations, willing to get along with us. we will be. we will have great relationships. we expect to have great, great relationships. no dream is too big. no challenge is too great. nothing we want for our future is beyond our reach. america will no longer settle for anything less than the best. we must reclaim our country's destiny and dream big and bold and daring. we have to do that. we are going to dream of things for our country and beautiful things and successful things once again. i want to tell the world community that while we will always put america's interest first, we will deal fairly with everyone, with everyone. all people and all other nations. we will seek common ground, not hostility, partnership, not conflict. and now i would like to take this moment to thank some of the people who really helped me with this, what they are calling tonight, very, very historic victory. first, i want to thank my parents, who i know are looking down on me right now. great people. i have learned so much from them. they were wonderful in every regard. i had truly great parents. i also want to thank my sisters, mary ann and elizabeth, who are here with us tonight. and where are they? they are here some place. they are very shy, actually. and my brother robert, my great friend, where is robert? where is robert? my brother robert? and they should all be on this stage, but that is okay. they are great. and also my late brother, fred, great guy. fantastic. fantastic family. i was very lucky. great brothers, sisters, great, unbelievable parents. tamalania and don. and ivanka and eric and tiffany and baron. i love you and i thank you. and especially for putting up with all of those hours, this was tough. this was tough. this political stuff is nasty and it is tough. so i want to thank my family very much. really fantastic. thank you all. thank you all. and lara, unbelievable job. unbelievable. vanessa, thank you. thank you very much. what a great group. you have all given me such incredible support and i will tell you that we have a large group of people. you know, they kept saying we have a small staff. that is so small. look at all the people that we have. look at all of these people. and kellyanne and chris and rudy and steve and david. we have got tremendously talented people up here and i will not tell you it is been very, very special. i want to give a very special thanks to our former mayor, rudy giuliani, who is for unbelievable. he traveled with us and he went through meetings. he never changed. where is rudy? where is he? rudy. governor chris christie folks was unbelievable. thank you, chris. the first man for senator, for his major, major politician. let me tell you, he is highly respected in washington because he is as smart as you get. senator jeff sessions. where is he? great man. another great man, very tough competitor. he was not easy. he was not easy. who was that? is that the mayor of the chetta? that rudy? oh, rudy got up here. another great man who has been really a friend to me, but i will tell you, i got to know him as a competitor because he was one of the folks that was negotiating to go against those democrats. dr. ben carson. where is ben? and by the way, mike cuckabee is here someplace and he is fantastic. mike and his family, sarah, thank you very much. general mike flynn. where is mike? and general kellogg. we have over 200 generals and admirals that have endorsed our campaign. and there are special people and it is really an honor. we have 22 congressional medal of honor recipients. we have just tremendous people. a very special person who believed me and i would read reports that i was not getting along with him. i never had a bad second with him. he is an unbelievable star. he is, that is right. how did you possibly guess? so let me tell you about rines. and i have said this. i said rines. and i know it. i know it. look at all those people over there. i know it. rines is a superstar, but i said they cannot call you a superstar rines unless we win. because you cannot be called a superstar like secretary of secretariat. if secretary of came and second secretary of came would not have that big beautiful bronze bus at the track at belmont. but i will tell you, rines is really a star. and he is the hardest working guy. and in a certain way i did this rines, come up here. where is rines? get over here, rines. boy, oh boy, oh boy. it is about time you did this rines. oh my god. i am safe you are. oh, come on, say something. ladies and gentlemen, the next president of the united states, donald trump. thank you. it is been an honor. god bless. thank god. amazing guy. our partnership with the rnc was so important to the success and what we have done. so i also have to say i have gotten to know some incredible people, the secret service people. they are tough and they are smart and they are sharp. and i do not want to mess around with them. i can tell you. and when i want to go and wave to a big group of people and they rip me down and put me back down to the seat, but they are fantastic people. so i want to thank the secret service. and law enforcement in new york city, they are here tonight. these are spectacular people. sometimes underappreciated, unfortunately, but we appreciate them. we know what they go through. so it is been what they call a historic event. but to be really historic, we have to do a great job. and i promise you that i will not let you down. we will do a great job. i look very much forward to being your president. and hopefully at the end of two years or three years or four years, or maybe even eight years, you will say so many of you work so hard for us. but you will say that that was something that you were really were very proud to do. and i can thank you very much. and i can only say that while the campaign is over, our work on this movement is now really just beginning. we are going to get to work immediately for the american people. and we are going to be doing a job that hopefully you will be so proud of your president. i am so proud. again, it is my honor. it was an amazing evening. it is been an amazing two-year period. and i love this country. thank you. thank you very much. thank you to mike pence. thank you, everybody. thank you. thank you. thank you. i am so proud today at the reception. i knew she was going to meet the president at her feet first. but you swear. you cannot always get what you want. you cannot always get what you want. you cannot always get what you want. but if you try something wrong, you are my friend. i am here. now let us head to the civil strip. i just need to find a fair share of the dreams. stay in work. go to bed. out of space. if it is going to go, then it is you. you cannot always get what you want. you cannot always get what you want. you cannot always get what you want. you cannot always get what you want. you cannot always get what you want. you cannot always get it. let us head down to the delta drift. to give you a more brush-pick and feel. i am standing in love with mr. jim. i am a man who is been in love with him. we just find it and we will have a good, good, good. i am a hero, a man who is jealous of me. i am a man who brought into the show. get out of here. you want him, where is he? get out of here! cruise to land. she was proud and proud of her family. we will not forget that it is a birthday day. we will give them all the gifts of our strong children. we will give them all the gifts of our strong children. we will give them all the gifts of our strong children. we will give them all the gifts of our strong children. we will give them all the gifts of our strong children. we will give them all the gifts of our strong children. we will demand the great счer of our dear brothers.