sorry to keep you waiting, come without a business. thank you very much. i have just received a call from secretary clinton. she congratulated us, it is about us, one of our victims, and i congratulated her and her family on a very, very hard, poor campaign. she is my very own. it really has worked very long and very hard over a long period of time, and we owe her a major debt of gratitude for her service to our country. now it is time for america to define the wounds of division, and have to get together. to all republicans and democrats and independents across this nation, i say it is time for us to come together as one united people. i pledge to every citizen of ireland that i will be president for all americans, and this is so important to me. for those who have chosen not to support me in the past, what is there where if you could? i am reaching out to you for your guidance and your help, so that we can work together and unify our great country. as i have said for a living day, ours was not a campaign, but rather an incredible and great movement, made up of millions of hard-working men and women who love their country and want a better, broader future for themselves and for deaf and deaf. it is a movement comprised of americans from all races, religions, backgrounds, and beliefs who want and expect our government to serve the people and serve the people it will. looking again, we have begun the urgent task of rebuilding our nation and renewing the american dream. i have spent my entire eyes on this, looking at the untapped potential in projects and in people all over the world. that is now what i want to do for our country. from men to people, from deaf and deaf in all countries, so well tremendous potential. it is going to be a beautiful thing. every single american will have the opportunity to realize his or her fullest potential. forgotten men and women of all country will be forgotten no longer. we do not own your fence, our inner self, and we build our high-wires, bridges, tunnels, and board schools, hospitals. we are going to rebuild our infrastructure, which will become, by the way, second to none. and we will put millions of our people to work as we rebuild it. we will also finally take care of our great veterans. and we will show you all of our adapter and show them all of this 18 month journey. the time i have spent with them during this campaign has been among my greatest honors. our veterans are incredible people. we will embark upon a project of national growth and renewal. i will harness the creative talents of our people, and we will call upon the best and brightest to leverage their tremendous talent for the benefit of all. we have a great economic journey. we will double our growth and have the strongest economy anywhere in the world. at the same time, we will get along with all other nations, willing to get along with great dimensions. we expect to have great, great relationships. no dream is too big, no challenge is too great. nothing we want for our future is beyond our reach. america will no longer settle for anything less than the best. we wish we could have our country's destiny. and dream big and bold and daring. we have to do that. we are going to dream of things for our country and beautiful things. and success for our fighters once again. i want to tell the world community that while we will always put america's interest for us, we will be friendly with everyone, with everyone, for people and all other nations. we will seek common ground, not hostility, partnership, not conflict. and now i would like to take this moment to thank some of the people who really helped me with this, and i am very proud of the story of the good time. first, i want to thank my parents, who i know are looking down. thank you very much. thank you. i have learned so much from them. they were wonderful and every we grow to have truly great parents. i also want to thank my sisters, mary and elizabeth. and my brother robert, my great son, mary and my brother robert. and we should all be on the stage, but that is our thing. and also my late brother, fred, great-grandson. fantastic family, i am very lucky. great brothers, sisters, great unbelievable parents. tomalania and bob. andy baca and mary antiphany and brown. i love you and i thank you. and especially for putting up with all of those hours this way, tough. those political stuff is nasty and tough. so i want to thank my family for this. and thank you. and laura, thank you very much. and that is it. thank you. thank you very much. water grid. you have all given me such incredible support and i will tell you that we have a large group of people. you know they kept saying we have a small staff. and we, and steve and david, we have got tremendous talented people up here. and i want to tell you it is been very, very special. i want to give a very special thanks to our former mayor, rudy giuliani. we traveled with us and we went through a meeting. in that murder of never change, with rudy, rudy, governor chris christie foxfuss. thank you very much. thank you. the first man for senator, first major, major politician. let me tell you, he is highly respected and more cheeky because he is a smart as you get. senator jeff sessions. great man. very tough to tell him. he was not easy. he was not easy. he was a great man. another great man who has been a rare, a friend to me. but i will tell you, i got to know him as a competitor because he was one of the folks that was negotiating to the mayor. dr. ben carson. and by the way, my company is here someplace that he needs to stay. mike and his family, so thank you very much. general mike flynn. general kelly. we have over 200 generals and adults that have endorsed our campaign. and there are special people, we have 22 congressional medal of honor recipients. we have just heard of this. a very special person who believed me and you know i agree with you once that i was not getting along with him. i never had a bad second breath. he is an unbelievable star. he is, that is right, having to possibly guess. so let me tell you about rights. and i have said this. i said rights. and i know it. i know who would honor people out of the world. i know rights is a superstar. but i said they cannot call you a superstar rights unless we win. because you cannot call the superstar like secretary of secretary cane and second. secretary, we are not going to have that big beautiful bronze bus at the track at bellman. but i will tell you, rights is really the start. and he is the hardest work of the world. it is certainly a good surprise. come on, get over here. get over here. get over here. it is about tommy, get this right. ladies and gentlemen, the next president of the united states, donald trump. our partnership with the r&c is so important to the success of what we have done. so i also have to say i have gotten to notice some incredible people, the secret service people. we are tough, and they are smart, and they are sharp. and i do not want to mess around with them. i can tell you. yeah, when i want to go on a wave to a big group of people, they rip me down and put me back down on the scene. and i am not going to mess around with them, but they are fantastic people. so i want to thank the secret service. and the law enforcement in new york city, they are here to know. it is a lot of fun. it is fantastic to meet people, sometimes under-appreciated unfortunately. but we appreciate them. we know what they are doing. so it is been one thing called historic event. but to be really historic, we have to do great job. and i promise you that i will not let you down who you are doing well. and hopefully at the end of two years or three years or four years, or maybe even eight years. you will say something that you look so hard for. you will say that you will say that that was something that you were really, were very proud to do. and i can, thank you very much. and i can only say that while the campaign is over, our work on this movement is now really just beginning. we are going to get together. and we are going to be doing a job that hopefully you will be so proud of your president. you will be so proud. again, it is my honor. it is an amazing evening. it is been an amazing two-year period. and i love this country. thank you.