[Congressional Record Volume 169, Number 121 (Friday, July 14, 2023)]
[House]
[Pages H3581-H3600]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2024
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 583 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union for the further consideration of the bill,
H.R. 2670.
Will the gentleman from Minnesota (Mr. Stauber) kindly take the
chair.
{time}  0915
In the Committee of the Whole
Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of
the bill (H.R. 2670) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2024
for military activities of the Department of Defense and for military
construction, and for defense activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes, with Mr. Stauber (Acting Chair) in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Committee of the Whole rose on Thursday,
July 13, 2023, amendment No. 62, printed in House Report 118-142
offered by the gentleman from Missouri (Mr. Burlison), had been
disposed of.
Amendment No. 63 Offered by Mr. Banks
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 63
printed in House Report 118-142.
Mr. BANKS. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of subtitle G of title V, insert the following:
SEC. 5__. PROHIBITION ON USE OF QUOTAS BASED ON RACE OR
ETHNICITY IN SERVICE ACADEMY ADMISSIONS.
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act
or otherwise made available for the military service
academies for fiscal year 2024 may be used to discriminate or
to use quotas in admissions on the basis of race or
ethnicity.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 583, the gentleman
from Indiana (Mr. Banks) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Indiana.
Mr. BANKS. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, this amendment would prohibit the use of funds to
discriminate on the basis of race and ethnicity in admissions to the
military service academies.
Currently, all of the military service academies use race and
ethnicity as selection criteria for admissions. Not only is this a
violation of the Constitution, as recently affirmed by the U.S. Supreme
Court, but it is a violation of the military's longstanding
meritocratic principles.
The military service academies are elite universities that train and
educate the future leaders of our armed services. We need the best and
the brightest, the most fit cadets and midshipmen, regardless of their
skin color and ethnicity. To consider immutable characteristics like
race and ethnicity is blatantly discriminatory.
For our national security, we must uphold the ideals of our country
and put hard work, dedication, and service above all.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. STRICKLAND. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Washington is recognized for 5
minutes.
Ms. STRICKLAND. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, Mr. Banks' amendment to prohibit our Nation's service
academies from promoting diverse experiences and backgrounds as part of
its missions policy will do nothing but weaken our military.
The Supreme Court recently recognized in its decision to leave
service academies out of its ruling on affirmative action that our
academies are not laboratories for ideological gerrymandering. They are
institutions that are foundational to our national security.
Our service academies are responsible for providing a higher
education but also for training our Nation's men and women to serve as
global leaders. Many graduates will serve in the highest levels of our
military and government, where success depends on maintaining an open
mind, building diverse coalitions, and drawing on broad experiences.
They will lead as part of a military that has never been more diverse,
more capable, or more lethal. Soon, nearly half of our servicemembers
will be people of color, but only a fraction serve as officers and even
a smaller fraction as senior leaders.
We learned bitter and painful lessons in World War II, Korea, and
Vietnam, when leaders neither understood nor looked like the formations
they led.
It is 2023, not 1952. If my colleagues across the aisle knew more
about the painful history of this country, perhaps last night one of
them would not have referred to Black servicemembers as ``colored
people.''
Let's not move our country backward. I oppose this amendment, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BANKS. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Wisconsin (Mr. Grothman).
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman from Indiana for
introducing this amendment.
I think it is a commonsense amendment. Right now, there are all sorts
of rumors out there that when people are admitted to the service
academies--who, after all, are going to wind up running our military,
the one part of our government that cannot fail--preferences are being
given and they are not always taking the best people that they can.
I want to point out something that is a little bit offensive about
this whole diversity thing. Diversity for people like the Democratic
Party, sadly, is solely determined by your genetics or your DNA or
where your ancestors were 200 years ago.
I will give you an example to show the foolishness of it and that the
real goal here, I think, is to divide Americans.
If I am one-quarter Peruvian, I can identify as Hispanic. I can
identify as Hispanic despite the fact I have never spoken a word of
Spanish and never been south of the border in my life. The people who
just want to divide America would say that I have a unique perspective
growing up in a Milwaukee suburb, despite the fact that I am one-
quarter from a different part of the world.
This is preposterous on its face, and it will inevitably lead to
division as we are educating our military that they should look at
people by where their ancestors came from, not as individuals.
This true racism, which is what it absolutely is because that is how
they determine which silo you fit into, has to be ripped away from our
society and the military, in particular.
The idea that we have different viewpoints because of where our
ancestors came from despite the fact that we have not been there and
know nothing of them is preposterous.
Like I said, in addition to the divisiveness, you are going to wind
up with people who are not necessarily the best people to lead our
military. Anybody familiar with military history knows the important
decisions that have to be made during wartime. We want those decisions
made by the brightest people we have, not by people who have been
picked based upon where their DNA was 2,000 years ago.
Ms. STRICKLAND. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. Kim), the ranking member
[[Page H3582]]
of the Military Personnel Subcommittee.
Mr. KIM of New Jersey. Mr. Chair, I want to respond to what was just
said.
It is absolutely important that we set straight that diversity does
not mean we are talking about people who are less qualified. We are not
talking about reducing standards. We are talking about recognizing one
part of the decision as one part of many.
This is not a situation where it is the overriding factor. I agree
with what Chairman Banks said, which is that we want the best and
brightest, but what we recognize when it comes to our service
academies, in particular, is that this is a situation where we are
trying to also build a force.
This is not just about an individual. Yes, we want the best and
brightest, but we also want the most cohesive and effective fighting
force for our country.
We recognize we are building an entity where our servicemembers are
part of something bigger than all of them.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. STRICKLAND. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentleman from New Jersey.
Mr. KIM of New Jersey. I think about this brief that was put forward
to the Supreme Court that was written by former military officials that
said: ``The importance of maintaining a diverse, highly qualified
officer corps has been beyond legitimate dispute for decades. History
has shown that placing a diverse Armed Forces under the command of
homogenous leadership is a recipe for internal resentment, discord, and
violence.''
This is written by former military leaders who are advising us to
make sure that we let the military be able to control and be able to
have the tools they need to build a force that our country needs.
Mr. BANKS. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. Mast), a real American hero.
Mr. MAST. Mr. Chair, I am amazed at the bigoted comments I am hearing
from the other side right now, literally stating that units need to
look a certain way. There have to be people of certain colors in these
units. It is purely idiotic. It is dangerous.
War is not a game. It is always dangerous. It is very often deadly. I
damn near gave my life for this country, and I can tell you the last
thing I cared about was the color of the snipers that had my back or
the color of the medics that were putting tourniquets on each of my
legs and my left arm when I was injured on the battlefield. It didn't
matter if they were Black, White, Brown.
None of that mattered when they were recruited into the military, and
it didn't matter as they were serving. It has absolutely zero place,
and you are literally putting the lives of our servicemembers in
danger. You are concretely saying that units need to look a certain way
by color.
I just pose this quick question. I don't know how much time I have
remaining, but I will bet you all over there can't tell me what my
background is. Am I part Black? Part Brown? Part White? What am I?
I yield time to you for a colloquy if you want to answer that. What
am I?
The Acting CHAIR. Members are reminded to direct their remarks to the
Chair.
Mr. MAST. Mr. Chair, I will bet they can't tell me. I hear silence
because you don't know what I am. You don't know that I am half
Mexican. You can't look at me and see that, but you believe that units
should be made up of something that you can't see and that you can't
ask about. It is idiotic policy and dangerous for our servicemembers,
and they deserve better from the other side.
The Acting CHAIR. The Chair would again remind Members to direct
their remarks to the Chair.
Ms. STRICKLAND. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. Ryan), vice ranking member of the House Armed Services
Committee.
Mr. RYAN. Mr. Chair, I thank my colleague for his service.
Mr. Chair, I rise as a proud graduate of the United States Military
Academy at West Point and a representative of the academy today.
Whether my colleagues want to recognize it or not, particularly those
on the far right, we have an increasingly growing diverse force.
As Mr. Kim said, unit cohesion, we can all agree, is essential and
critical, both in the heat of battle and in training and preparation.
This amendment would unequivocally, as you heard from retired military
officers across the world, weaken unit cohesion. Even the
considerably--to be generous--conservative Supreme Court has recognized
the distinct interests of these service academies in the Court's recent
decision that came down just a few weeks ago.
We have made great strides at the academies with a focus and
bipartisan commitment for decades. West Point has gone from 20 percent
to 36 percent cadets of minority backgrounds, and the Naval Academy
from 19 percent to 37 percent, but we still have work to do to achieve
unit cohesion.
Mr. BANKS. Mr. Chairman, this amendment is simple. It ensures our
military service academies are in line with the Supreme Court's recent
decision on the unconstitutionality of race-based affirmative action,
and it strives to uphold the ideals of meritocracy, which is nowhere
more important than in the United States military.
Mr. Chair, I urge all Members to support this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. STRICKLAND. Mr. Chairman, may I inquire as to the time remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman has 1 minute remaining.
Ms. STRICKLAND. Mr. Chair, I yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Chair, today's military leaders are unequivocal in their support
of diversity and leadership. Joint Chiefs Chairman Milley considers it
fundamental. Army Chief McConville calls it a crucial competitive
advantage. Then-Air Force Chief CQ Brown called diversity an
imperative. Marine Corps Commandant Berger said the core of America's
strength lies in its diversity.
The very government assembled here today, in its amicus brief to the
Supreme Court, characterized a diverse pool of academy graduates as a
vital interest on which the Nation's future depends.
The American people expect and demand that our academies are given
every tool and advantage to train leaders capable of fighting and
winning our Nation's wars. Make no mistake, diversity is not synonymous
with less qualified. We want the best. We want the brightest. We need
the most diverse.
This amendment attempts to weaken a concept foundational to our
current and future military supremacy, that diversity translates into
capability and lethality.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Banks).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes
appeared to have it.
Ms. STRICKLAND. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Indiana will
be postponed.
{time}  0930
Amendment No. 64 Offered by Mr. Roy
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 64
printed in House Report 118-142.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of subtitle E of title X, insert the following:
SEC. 10__. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO IMPLEMENT CERTAIN
EXECUTIVE ORDERS.
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act
or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for
fiscal year 2024 may be used to implement any of the
following executive orders:
(1) Executive Order 13990, relating to Protecting Public
Health and the Environment and Restoring Science To Tackle
the Climate Crisis.
(2) Executive Order 14008, relating to Tackling the Climate
Crisis at Home and Abroad.
(3) Section 6 of Executive Order 14013, relating to
Rebuilding and Enhancing Programs To Resettle Refugees and
Planning for the Impact of Climate Change on Migration.
(4) Executive Order 14030, relating to Climate-Related
Financial Risk.
[[Page H3583]]
(5) Executive Order 14057, relating to Catalyzing Clean
Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal Sustainability.
(6) Executive Order 14082, relating to Implementation of
the Energy and Infrastructure Provisions of the Inflation
Reduction Act of 2022.
(7) Executive Order 14096, relating to Revitalizing Our
Nation's Commitment to Environmental Justice for All.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 583, the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. Roy) and a Member opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Texas.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Chair, we have spent the better part of the last several
days making clear to the American people that this side of the aisle
wants to see a Department of Defense that is focused on its core
mission, defending the United States of America, rather than divvying
us up by race and dividing us and separating us.
I rise today to ensure that the Department of Defense is focused on
its core mission rather than pursuing the political agenda of climate
change to the detriment of the national security of the United States.
In 2021, Department of Defense spokesman John Kirby refused to say
that China is a bigger national security threat to the United States
than climate change. He called them equally important and said it
doesn't do any good to make a relative assessment of national security
issues.
Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin has said climate change is an
existential threat to our Nation's security.
Next week, Secretary of State John Kerry literally travels to China
to discuss climate change, not China's increased aggression against
Taiwan, not its expansion in the Pacific, not its oppression of its
people, not the fact that they produce two new coal-fired plants per
week on top of the 1,100 they have while we undermine our national
security to pursue the climate-fetish agenda of the other side of the
aisle.
President Biden's executive orders have served as the catalyst for
massive reforms at the Department of Defense that compromise national
security to advance this climate fetish.
The amendment that I offer would prohibit any of the funding in the
National Defense Authorization Act, or that flows from that
authorization, from being used to carry out President Biden's executive
orders on climate change.
The Department of Defense's climate adaptation plan includes radical
proposals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the expense of our
warfighting capabilities. According to the plan, the DOD has identified
climate change as a critical national security issue. It mandates
environmental justice because why miss an opportunity to push divisive
ideology?
The DOD says it will transition to 100 percent carbon-free
electricity, meaning America's war machine will literally depend on the
wind and the sun.
No one, including anyone on this side of the aisle, believes that we
shouldn't pursue every advantage and technology to harness energy, no
one. In Texas, we have embraced wind and we have embraced solar, but to
our detriment when we have interfered with the market and interfered
with our ability to have energy at our disposal and at our demand. We
undermine our grid. We undermine our national security. We undermine
reliability. We cause energy prices to go up.
In this case, in the context of the National Defense Authorization
Act, we should not be pursuing this politically motivated climate
fetishization that undermines our national security.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Three quick points here. First of all, it is interesting. You can go
back to 2008 and look at John McCain's campaign and, entertainingly,
Sarah Palin's Vice Presidential statements about how climate change was
an existential threat, and this was a bipartisan issue where we talked
about why this was a significant challenge that we needed to address.
Then, of course, Barack Obama had the audacity to get elected
President and pursue that agenda, so suddenly it became political.
I just want to make this very, very clear. The belief here is that
digging up fossil fuels from below the ground and burning them is bad
for life, it is bad for the planet, and it will eventually exterminate
the planet.
Now, if you want to disagree with that, you want to have a little
argument about whether or not that is true, we can. I mean, the
overwhelming majority of scientists seem to agree with that, but let's
hear the argument. It just kills me to sit here and listen to the other
side claim that this is a political agenda.
Now, I understand why they do that, because that skips past the messy
part of where you have to actually argue the facts and you can just
dismiss it as politics and everyone robotically goes: Oh, yes,
politics, that is bad. We can't have that.
If we can have an actual discussion about this, if you believe, as
the administration does and as, again, I don't know, 80 percent of the
scientists believe, that climate change could destroy the fricking
planet, then it is worth saying that that's a national security threat
at least equivalent to China.
Yes, there is the possibility of global nuclear war with China that
could exterminate the planet, but climate change, the argument is,
would exterminate the planet, so I think that is worth thinking about.
Please believe me when I say this is not a political agenda. It is a
heartfelt belief that we have a distinct problem here that needs to be
addressed.
Second: How to address it. Come up with alternative sources of energy
and make those investments. This is also very important, because even
if this wasn't destroying the planet, our dependency upon oil has been
problematic.
I know there is this fantasy that we are going to become energy
independent. Nobody is energy independent. Oil is a global marketplace.
Even if we generate enough energy, we sell it overseas, and Saudi
Arabia and OPEC therefore have an enormous amount of control over that
market.
As I have said over and over again, the true answer to this problem
is, when gas prices go up, wouldn't it be great to say: That is
wonderful, but we don't need that, we have other sources of energy to
go to. Nothing is more important in the military than energy and access
to it. Wars are started over having access to the energy that you need.
To say that this doesn't involve national security literally hurts my
brain. You need these alternatives.
The last argument is on the market: We will let the market decide.
The market subsidized the living hell out of the oil industry for 175
years. They have an enormous advantage. The pipelines, the system, the
entire thing that was built, was built on our taxpayer dollars. Now,
what we are saying is if we are going to develop an alternative to
that, then we are going to have to help that, as we helped nuclear
energy, and a whole of bunch other different things.
I don't think I hear the other side complaining about the government
subsidizing nuclear energy because that fits within their politics.
If I ask nothing else, could we please just have a rational
discussion that understands that this is a legitimate policy issue? It
isn't a fetish. It isn't a political debate. It is the fate of the
planet and how we manage energy policy, both of which--I am going to
take a real bold step here--actually impact national security. I
believe that they do, and I believe that anybody would agree with that
statement.
Please, defeat this amendment.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Chair, I appreciate my colleague for basically making
the case for the very climate fetish that I describe. When he talks
about the need for energy and its existence for national security, my
point is having reliable energy. We have to have energy that is
available and reliable and dependable. That is the whole point.
My colleague talks about nuclear power. Great. I am waiting with
bated breath for my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to
embrace and promote and push noncarbon-producing nuclear power.
We haven't generated a new nuclear power plant since when, the 1970s?
[[Page H3584]]
Georgia isn't even off the ground because of Federal regulation and
interference.
The fact is, we are subsidizing and promoting unreliable wind and
solar while subsidizing the hell out of electric vehicles, and my
colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to use the Defense
Department to continue to promote it, when it engaged in crony
capitalism to enrich a small handful of elitists on the back of the
hardworking American people while we subsidize China and make ourselves
reliable on China for their minerals and what they produce.
It is absolutely astonishing that we would turn over our national
defense capability to China at this point in time to pursue this
radical agenda.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I would just note that we
actually are making investments in nuclear power. It is really
expensive and difficult to develop, but the investments are being made.
That is part of the agenda.
Mr. Chair, I yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from
California (Mr. Garamendi).
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Chair, I am actually quite amazed that we are
allowing a political ideology to get in the way of reality and facts.
The fact of the matter is that the U.S. military, more than a decade
ago, noticed that the climate was changing and they needed to address
it. Also, the fact is that the largest solar and wind energy systems in
the Nation are in Texas, and Texas is dependent upon those for their
power when a heat wave arrives.
Let's be smart here. Let's not let ideology and the fact that we want
to get into a fight over climate change get in the way of good public
policy. It is absolutely essential that the military build for the
future, that they build for resiliency.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Roy).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes
appeared to have it.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Texas will
be postponed.
The Chair understands that amendment No. 65 will not be offered.
Amendment No. 66 Offered by Mr. Davidson
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 66
printed in House Report 118-142.
Mr. DAVIDSON. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of subtitle D of title XVI, insert the
following:
SEC. 16__. EXCLUSIVE MEANS FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO
ACQUIRE LOCATION INFORMATION, WEB BROWSING
HISTORY, INTERNET SEARCH HISTORY, AND FOURTH
AMENDMENT-PROTECTED INFORMATION.
(a) Exclusive Means.--
(1) Foreign intelligence purposes.--Title I and sections
303, 304, 703, 704, and 705 of the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq., 1823, 1824,
1881b, 1881c, 1881d) shall be the exclusive means by which
the Secretary of Defense acquires location information, web
browsing history, Internet search history, and Fourth
Amendment-protected information of United States persons or
persons inside the United States for foreign intelligence
purposes.
(2) Law enforcement purposes.--A warrant obtained by
demonstrating probable cause shall be the exclusive means by
which the Secretary of Defense acquires location information,
web browsing history, Internet search history, and Fourth
Amendment-protected information of United States persons or
persons inside the United States for law enforcement
purposes.
(b) Third Party.--If the interception, or compelled
production, or physical search or seizure of information
inside the United States by the Secretary of Defense would
require a warrant, court order, or subpoena under law, the
Secretary may not obtain that information from a third party
in exchange for anything of value without obtaining the
warrant, court order, or subpoena that would be required for
such interception, compelled production, or physical search
or seizure.
(c) Exception.--Notwithstanding subsection (b), the
Secretary of Defense may acquire the types of information
specified in subsection (b) in exchange for something of
value if--
(1) the information is aggregated or anonymized in such a
way that it cannot reasonably be de-anonymized or otherwise
linked to any individual or specific group of individuals;
and
(2) the Secretary does not disclose the information to any
Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency or to any
other element of the intelligence community, or any official
of such an agency or element.
(d) Definitions.--In this section:
(1) The term ``Fourth Amendment-protected information''
means information the compelled production of which would
require a warrant for law enforcement purposes.
(2) The term ``location information'' means information
derived or otherwise calculated from the transmission or
reception of a radio signal that reveals the approximate or
actual geographic location of a customer, subscriber, or
device.
(3) The term ``United States person'' has the meaning given
that term in section 101 of the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 583, the gentleman
from Ohio (Mr. Davidson) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Ohio.
Mr. DAVIDSON. Mr. Chair, the amendment I have offered would prevent
the Department of Defense from purchasing data that would otherwise
require a warrant, court order, or subpoena. The amendment would also
end unauthorized surveillance practices.
The government is currently circumventing the Fourth Amendment by
purchasing location data, internet browsing data, and other sensitive
information. The so-called data broker loophole is a severe threat to
the right to privacy in the United States.
Freedom surrendered is rarely reclaimed, but we must defend our
Fourth Amendment.
Government surveillance programs are routinely misused and targeted
at Americans. The FBI, in fact, admits it conducted 278,000 improper
searches of American citizens in 2020 alone. If the government can buy
its way around the Fourth Amendment, there will be few meaningful
limits on government surveillance.
We need to pass this amendment. It at least stops the Department of
Defense from doing that inside the United States of America.
Mr. Chair, I reserve balance of my time.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition to
the amendment, although I am not opposed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection to the request of the gentleman
from Alabama?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for offering
the amendment.
Ubiquitous commercial data collection and bulk data sales represent a
privacy concern for all Americans. Companies and governments alike have
access to once unimaginable amounts of user data through commercial
channels. This development and the Fourth Amendment questions that come
with it deserve full consideration.
I look forward to working with the gentleman on this amendment to
ensure that these issues are addressed in a manner that does not unduly
burden the Department of Defense relative to the rest of the Federal
Government while ensuring its operational needs are met.
I think Congress will spend a substantial amount of time on the
privacy concerns addressed by this amendment in the coming months, and
I welcome that discussion.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
{time}  0945
Mr. DAVIDSON. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the support of my colleagues
to get this amendment to this point and, frankly, the commitment to the
work ahead. It is important for our national security, but the whole
premise of the Department of Defense is to support and defend the
Constitution of the United States. The way we go about that has to
preserve the way of life that our Constitution establishes, that the
Bill of Rights guarantees that our protections will exist, and we have
a lot of work to do to restore the protections of our Fourth Amendment.
[[Page H3585]]
This amendment is an important first step, and I ask all of our
colleagues to unite and make it a fully bipartisan level of support.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACOBS. Mr. Chair, I want to thank the Gentleman from Ohio for
your partnership on this amendment.
My team and I have loved working with you and your team on this issue
and appreciate your commitment to making this a bipartisan effort.
Right now, an existing data broker loophole allows our government to
make an end-run around our 4th amendment rights to access our personal
information without a warrant, court order, or subpoena.
How? Because they're buying it.
Cash doesn't hold the same legitimacy and authority as a warrant--but
right now, it's treated like it does.
This is wrong.
I'm sure that many of my colleagues don't want the Department of
Defense to see what they're looking at online. . . . but there's
nothing right now to prevent that.
Our search and browsing history, location data, health information--
all of this should be off-limits unless a court order says otherwise.
And that's why I'm so proud to lead this bipartisan amendment to
prevent the Department of Defense from purchasing data that would
otherwise require a warrant, court order, or subpoena.
Our amendment would rein in unauthorized surveillance practices and
take a big step forward to protect Americans' privacy.
I urge my colleagues to support it.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Davidson).
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. The Chair understands that amendment No. 67 will
not be offered.
The Chair understands that amendment No. 68 will not be offered.
The Chair understands that amendment No. 69 will not be offered.
Amendments En Bloc No. 1 Offered by Mr. Rogers of Alabama
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chair, pursuant to House Resolution 583, I
offer amendments en bloc.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
Amendments en bloc No. 1 consisting of amendment Nos. 2, 3, 4, 6, 7,
8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 26, 29, 36, 37, 38, 39, 42,
43, 44, 53, 54, 60, 65, 67, 68, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79,
and 80, printed in House Report 118-142, offered by Mr. Rogers of
Alabama:
amendment no. 2 offered by mr. green of tennessee
At the appropriate place in subtitle E of title XII, insert
the following:
SEC. __. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR PRODUCTION OF FILMS
AND PROHIBITION ON USE OF SUCH FUNDS FOR FILMS
SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS ON CONTENT OR ALTERED FOR
SCREENING IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA OR
AT THE REQUEST OF THE CHINESE COMMUNIST PARTY.
(a) Limitation on Use of Funds.--The Secretary of Defense
may only authorize the provision of technical support or
access to an asset controlled by or related to the Department
of Defense to enter into a contract relating to the
production or funding of a film by a United States company if
the United States company, as a condition of receiving the
support or access--
(1) provides to the Secretary a list of all films produced
or funded by that company the content of which has been
submitted, during the shorter of the preceding 10-year period
or the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this
Act, to an official of the Government of the People's
Republic of China (PRC) or the Chinese Communist Party (CCP)
for evaluation with respect to screening the film in the PRC;
(2) includes, with respect to each such film--
(A) the title of the film; and
(B) the date on which such submission occurred;
(3) enters into a written agreement with the Secretary of
Defense not to alter the content of the film in response to,
or in anticipation of, a request by an official of the
Government of the PRC or the CCP; and
(4) submits such agreement to the Secretary.
(b) Prohibition With Respect to Films Subject to Conditions
on Content or Altered for Screening in China.--
Notwithstanding subsection (a), the President may not
authorize the provision of technical support or access to any
asset controlled by the Federal Government for, or authorize
the head of a Federal agency to enter into any contract
relating to, the production or funding of a film by a United
States company if--
(1) the film is co-produced by an entity located in the PRC
that is subject to conditions on content imposed by an
official of the Government of the PRC or the CCP; or
(2) with respect to the most recent report submitted under
subsection (c), the United States company is listed in the
report pursuant to subparagraph (C) or (D) of paragraph (2)
of that subsection.
(c) Report to Congress.--
(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate
committees of Congress a report on films disclosed under
subsection (a) that are associated with a United States
company that has received technical support or access to an
asset controlled by the Department of Defense for, or has
entered into a contract with the Federal Government relating
to, the production or funding of a film.
(2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall
include the following:
(A) A description of each film listed pursuant to the
requirement under subsection (a)(1), the content of which was
submitted, during the shorter of the preceding 10-year period
or the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this
Act, by a United States company to an official of the
Government of the PRC or the CCP for evaluation with respect
to screening the film in the PRC, including--
(i) the United States company that submitted the contents
of the film;
(ii) the title of the film; and
(iii) the date on which such submission occurred.
(B) A description of each film with respect to which a
United States company entered into a written agreement with
the Department of Defense providing the support or access, as
applicable, pursuant to the requirement under subsection
(a)(2) not to alter the content of the film in response to,
or in anticipation of, a request by an official of the
Government of the PRC or the CCP, during the shorter of the
preceding 10-year period or the period beginning on the date
of the enactment of this Act, including--
(i) the United States company that entered into the
agreement; and
(ii) the title of the film.
(C) The title of any film described pursuant to
subparagraph (A), and the corresponding United States company
described pursuant to clause (i) of that subparagraph--
(i) that was submitted to an official of the Government of
the PRC or the CCP during the preceding 3-year period; and
(ii) for which the Secretary assesses that the content was
altered in response to, or in anticipation of, a request by
an official of the Government of the PRC or the CCP.
(D) The title of any film that is described in both
subparagraph (A) and subparagraph (B), and the corresponding
one or more United States companies described in clause (i)
of each such subparagraph--
(i) that was submitted to an official of the Government of
the PRC or the CCP during the preceding 10-year period; and
(ii) for which the Secretary assesses that the content was
altered in response to, or in anticipation of, a request by
an official of the Government of the PRC or the CCP.
(d) Definitions.--In this section:
(1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term
``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
(A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on
Armed Services of the Senate and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on
Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
(2) Content.--The term ``content'' means any description of
a film, including the script.
(3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary
of Defense.
(4) United states company.--The term ``United States
company'' means a private entity incorporated under the laws
of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United
States.
amendment no. 3 offered by mr. green of tennesee
At the appropriate place in title VI, insert the following:
SEC. 6__. PROHIBITION ON SALE OF CHINESE GOODS IN COMMISSARY
STORES AND MILITARY EXCHANGES.
The Secretary of Defense shall prohibit the sale, at a
commissary store or military exchange, of goods--
(1) manufactured in China;
(2) assembled in China; or
(3) imported into the United States from China.
amendment no. 4 offered by ms. stefanik of new york
Strike section 1308 and insert the following:
SEC. 1308. MODIFICATION OF INITIATIVE TO SUPPORT PROTECTION
OF NATIONAL SECURITY ACADEMIC RESEARCHERS FROM
UNDUE INFLUENCE AND OTHER SECURITY THREATS.
(a) In General.--Section 1286(c)(8)(A)(iii) of the John S.
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2019 (10 U.S.C. 4001 note) is amended--
(1) in subclause (I), by striking ``or'' at the end; and
(2) by adding at the end of the following:
``(III) to provide documented support to a defense or an
intelligence agency of the applicable country; or''.
(b) Prohibition on Availability of Funds.--
(1) In general.--None of the funds authorized to be
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for
fiscal year 2024 or any subsequent fiscal year for the
Department of Defense for research, development,
[[Page H3586]]
test, and evaluation may be provided to an entity that
maintains a contract between the entity and an academic
institution of the People's Republic of China, the Russian
Federation, or another country that--
(A) is identified on the list developed under section
1286(c)(8)(A) of the John S. McCain National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (10 U.S.C. 4001 note)
(as amended by subsection (a)); and
(B) is included on such list because the institution meets
the criteria specified in clause (ii) or clause (iii) of such
section.
(2) Waiver.--
(A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the
prohibition under paragraph (1) with respect to an entity, on
a case-by-case basis, if the Secretary determines that such a
waiver is appropriate.
(B) Reporting.--Not later than 30 days after issuing a
waiver under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Defense shall
submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and
the House of Representatives a report that explains the
Secretary's reasons for issuing the waiver.
amendmen no. 6 offered by mr. gallagher of wisconsin
At the end of subtitle B of title II, add the following new
section:
SEC. 2__. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR FUNDAMENTAL
RESEARCH COLLABORATION WITH CERTAIN
INSTITUTIONS.
(a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none
of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or
otherwise made available for any fiscal year for the
Department of Defense may be provided directly or indirectly
to an institution of higher education for conducting
fundamental research in collaboration with any of the
following:
(1) An entity of concern.
(2) An academic institution of a military, law enforcement,
intelligence, or security agency of the People's Republic of
China, including any institution specified in subsection (e)
or identified on the list published under subsection (g)(1)
(as applicable), or any individual or entity acting for or on
behalf of such an institution.
(3) Any component of the defense laboratory system in the
People's Republic of China, including--
(A) any Defense Science and Technology National Laboratory,
Defense Science and Technology Key Laboratory, Defense Core
Laboratory, or any other laboratory specified in subsection
(f) or identified on the list published under subsection
(g)(2) (as applicable); or
(B) any individual or entity acting for or on behalf of
such a laboratory.
(b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the
limitation under subsection (a), on a case-by-case basis,
with respect to a principal investigator at an institution of
higher education, if the Secretary of Defense determines that
such a waiver is in the national security interests of the
United States.
(c) Certifications of Compliance.--
(1) Funding certification.--As a condition of receiving
funds from the Department of Defense, an institution of
higher education shall certify to the Secretary of Defense
that the principal investigator of the project of the
institution that is applying for funding from the Department
of Defense--
(A) is not conducting fundamental research in collaboration
with an entity described in subsection (a) as of the date of
the certification; and
(B) will not conduct fundamental research in collaboration
with such an entity during the period for which such funding
is received.
(2) Contract certification.--As a condition of maintaining
a contract with the Department of Defense, an institution of
higher education shall--
(A) using publicly available information, perform due
diligence on any academic institution or laboratory the
institution is collaborating with, or intends to collaborate
with, under the contract; and
(B) certify to the Secretary of Defense that the principal
investigator of the project of the institution to which the
contract pertains--
(i) has not conducted fundamental research in collaboration
with an entity described in subsection (a) at any time during
the period in which such contract was in effect, up to and
including the date of the certification; and
(ii) will not conduct fundamental research in collaboration
with such an entity during any period in which such contract
is in effect.
(3) Frequency.--An institution of higher education shall--
(A) submit the certification under paragraph (1) on an
annual basis during each year in which the institution
receives funds from the Department of Defense; and
(B) submit the certification under paragraph (2) on an
annual basis during each year in which a contract is in
effect between the institution and the Department.
(d) Report.--
(1) In general.--On an annual basis, the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a report on the compliance of the Department of
Defense and institutions of higher education with the
requirements of this section. Each report shall include, for
each waiver issued under subsection (b) in the period covered
by the report--
(A) a justification for the waiver; and
(B) a detailed description of the type and extent of any
collaboration between an institution of higher education and
an entity described in subsection (a) allowed pursuant to the
waiver, including identification of the institution and
entities involved, the type of technology involved, the
duration of the collaboration and terms and conditions on
intellectual property assignment, as applicable, under the
collaboration agreement.
(2) Form; public availability.--Each report under paragraph
(1) shall be submitted in unclassified form and shall be made
available on a publicly accessible website of the Department
of Defense.
(e) Chinese Academic Institutions Specified.--Beginning on
the date of the enactment of this Act and continuing until
the date of the publication of the first updated list under
subsection (g)(1), the academic institutions referred to in
subsection (a)(2) are the following:
(1) Military academic and research institutions of the
People's Republic of China identified by the China Aerospace
Studies Institute (or successor organization) of the
Department of Air Force on the publicly available list titled
``Academic and Research Institutions of the People's Republic
of China, the Communist Party of China, including the CCP
People's Liberation Army and the People's Armed Police''.
(2) Academic institutions of the Chinese law enforcement,
including the following:
(A) People's Public Security University of China.
(B) Chinese People's Police University.
(C) Criminal Investigation University of China.
(D) Railway Police College.
(E) Nanjing Forest Police College.
(3) Academic institutions of Chinese intelligence and
security agencies, including the University of International
Relations.
(4) Chinese civilian institutions identified by the
Department of Defense for engaging in problematic activities
on the list included in the publication of the Department of
Defense titled ``Countering Unwanted Influence in Department-
Funded Research at Institutions of Higher Education'' and
dated June 30, 2023.
(5) Any successor to an institution specified in paragraphs
(1) through (4).
(f) Chinese Defense Laboratories Specified.--Beginning on
the date of the enactment of this Act and continuing until
the date of the publication of the first list under
subsection (g)(2), the components of the defense laboratory
system in the People's Republic of China referred to in
subsection (a)(3) are the following:
(1) The laboratories identified by the China Aerospace
Studies Institute (or successor organization) of the
Department of Air Force on the publicly available list titled
``Academic and Research Institutions of the People's Republic
of China, the Communist Party of China, including the CCP
People's Liberation Army and the People's Armed Police''.
(2) Any successor to a laboratory specified in paragraph
(1).
(g) Annual Updates.--Not later than 180 days after the date
of the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than
annually thereafter, the Secretary of Defense, in
consultation with the Director of National Intelligence,
shall--
(1) publish an updated list of academic institutions of the
People's Republic of China for purposes of subsection (a)(2)
which shall include, at a minimum, each institution specified
in subsection (e) (if still in operation) or any successor to
such an institution; and
(2) publish an updated list of entities that comprise the
defense laboratory system of the People's Republic of China
for purposes of subsection (a)(3) which shall include, at a
minimum, each laboratory specified in subsection (f) (if
still in operation) or any successor to such a laboratory.
(h) Effective Date.--The limitation under subsection (a)
shall apply with respect to the first fiscal year that begins
after the date that is one year after the date of the
enactment of this Act and to any subsequent fiscal year.
(i) Definitions.--In this section:
(1) The term ``entity of concern'' has the meaning given
that term in section 10114 of the Research and Development,
Competition, and Innovation Act (42 U.S.C. 18912).
(2) The term ``institution of higher education'' has the
meaning given that term in section 102 of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002) and includes--
(A) any department, program, project, faculty, researcher,
or other individual, entity, or activity of such institution;
and
(B) any branch of such institution within or outside the
United States.
(3) The term ``fundamental research'' means basic and
applied research in science and engineering, the results of
which are expected to be published and shared broadly within
the scientific community. Such term does not include research
that is proprietary or classified and subject to access
restrictions under other provisions of Federal law.
(4) The term ``collaboration'' means any level of
coordinated activity between an institution of higher
education and an entity described in subsection (a), whether
direct or indirect, formal or informal, and includes--
(A) sharing of research facilities, resources, or data;
(B) transfer, sharing, or dissemination of technology,
information, or any technical know-how;
(C) any financial or in-kind contribution intended to
produce a research product;
[[Page H3587]]
(D) sponsorship or facilitation of research fellowships,
visas, or residence permits;
(E) joint ventures, partnerships, or other formalized
agreements for the purpose of conducting research or sharing
resources, data, or technology;
(F) inclusion of researchers as consultants, advisors, or
members of advisory or review boards; and
(G) such other activities as may be determined by the
Secretary of Defense in consultation with the Secretary of
State and Director of National Intelligence.
(5) The term ``appropriate congressional committees''
means--
(A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology of the House of
Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate.
amendment no. 7 offered by mr. gallagher of wisconsin
At the appropriate place in title VXIII, insert the
following:
SEC. 18__. PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH CERTAIN
BIOTECHNOLOGY PROVIDERS.
(a) In General.--The head of an executive agency may not--
(1) procure or obtain or extend or renew a contract to
procure or obtain any covered biotechnology equipment or
service; or
(2) enter into a contract or extend or renew a contract
with any entity that--
(A) uses covered biotechnology equipment or services
acquired after the date of the enactment of this Act; or
(B) that enters into any contract the performance of which
such entity knows or has reason to believe will require the
direct use of covered biotechnology equipment or services.
(b) Prohibition on Loan and Grant Funds.--The head of an
executive agency may not obligate or expend loan or grant
funds to--
(1) procure or obtain or extend or renew a contract to
procure or obtain any covered biotechnology equipment or
service: or
(2) enter into a contract or extend or renew a contract
with an entity described in subsection (a)(2).
(c) Effective Date.--The prohibitions under subsections (a)
and (b) shall take effect 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
(d) Waiver Authorities.--
(1) Specific biotechnology exception.--
(A) Waiver.--The head of an executive agency may waive the
prohibition under subsection (a) and (b) on a case-by-case
basis--
(i) with the approval of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, in consultation with the Federal
Acquisition Security Council and the Secretary of Defense;
and
(ii) if such head submits a notification and justification
to the appropriate congressional committees not later than 30
days after granting such waiver.
(B) Duration.--
(i) In general.--Except as provided in clause (ii), a
waiver granted under subparagraph (A) shall last for a period
of not more than 180 days.
(ii) Extension.--The Director of the Office of Management
and Budget, in consultation with the Federal Acquisition
Security Council and the Secretary of Defense, may extend a
waiver granted under subparagraph (A) one time, for a period
up to 180 days after the date on which the waiver would
otherwise expire, if such an extension is in the national
security interests of the United States and the Director
submits to the appropriate congressional committees a
notification of such waiver.
(2) Overseas health care services.--The head of an
executive agency may waive the prohibitions under subsections
(a) and (b) with respect to a contract, subcontract, or
transaction for the acquisition or provision of health care
services overseas on a case-by-case basis--
(A) if the head of such executive agency determines that
the waiver is--
(i) necessary to support the mission or activities of the
employees of such executive agency described in subsection
(e)(2)(A); and
(ii) in the interest of the United States;
(B) with the approval of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, in consultation with the Federal
Security Acquisition Council and the Secretary of Defense;
and
(C) if such head submits a notification and justification
to the appropriate congressional committees not later than 30
days after granting such waiver.
(e) Exceptions.--The prohibitions under subsections (a) and
(b) shall not apply to--
(1) any activity subject to the reporting requirements
under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3091 et seq.) or any authorized intelligence activities of
the United States;
(2) the acquisition or provision of health care services
overseas for--
(A) employees of the United States, including members of
the uniformed services (as defined in section 101(a) of title
10, United States Code), whose official duty stations are
located overseas; or
(B) employees of contractors or subcontractors of the
United States--
(i) who are performing under a contract that directly
supports the missions or activities of individuals described
in subparagraph (A); and
(ii) whose primary duty stations are located overseas; or
(3) the acquisition, use, or distribution of genetic
sequencing data, however complied, that is commercially
available.
(f) Evaluation of Certain Biotechnology Entities.--Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall determine whether Wuxi
AppTec, AxBio, and any subsidiary, affiliate, or successor of
such entities, or any other entity headquartered in or
organized under the laws of the People's Republic of China
are a biotechnology company of concern.
(g) Regulations.--
(1) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget, in coordination with the Federal Acquisition Security
Council, the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council, the
Secretary of Defense, and other heads of Executive agencies
as determined appropriate by the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, shall establish guidance, as
necessary, to implement the requirements of this section.
(2) Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council shall
revise the Federal Acquisition Regulation as necessary to
implement the requirements of this section.
(h) Definitions.--In this section:
(1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term
``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
(A) the Committees on Armed Services and on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Oversight and
Accountability, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the
Select Committee on Strategic Competition between the United
States and the Chinese Communist Party of the House of
Representatives.
(2) Biotechnology company of concern.--The term
``biotechnology company of concern'' means--
(A) the BGI Group, MGI Group, or Complete Genomics, or any
subsidiary, parent, affiliate, or successor of such entities;
and
(B) any entity that--
(i) is subject to the jurisdiction, direction, or control
of a foreign adversary;
(ii) operates primarily in the biotechnology industry; and
(iii) the Secretary of Defense deems to pose a risk to the
national security of the United States.
(3) Biotechnology equipment or service.--The term
``biotechnology equipment or service'' means--
(A) any instrument, apparatus, machine, or device,
including components and accessories thereof, that is
designed for use in the research, development, production, or
analysis of biological materials as well as any software,
firmware, or other digital components that are specifically
designed for use in, and necessary for the operation of, such
an instrument, apparatus, machine, or device;
(B) any service for the research, development, production,
analysis, detection, or provision of information related to
biological materials, including--
(i) advising, consulting, or support services provided by a
biotechnology company of concern with respect to the use or
implementation of a instrument, apparatus, machine, or device
described in subparagraph (A); and
(ii) disease detection, genealogical information, and
related services; and
(C) any other service, instrument, apparatus, machine,
component, accessory, device, software, or firmware that the
Federal Acquisition Security Council, in coordination with
the Secretary of Defense and such other heads of Executive
agencies (as determined by the Federal Acquisition Security
Council), determines appropriate.
(4) Control.--The term ``control'' has the meaning given to
that term in section 800.208, Tile 31, Code of Federal
Regulations, or any successor regulations
(5) Covered biotechnology equipment or service.--The term
``covered biotechnology equipment or service'' means a
biotechnology equipment or service produced or provided by a
biotechnology company of concern.
(6) Executive agency.--The term ``Executive agency'' has
the meaning given such term in section 105 of title 5, United
States Code.
(7) Foreign adversary.--The term ``foreign adversary'' has
the meaning given the term ``covered nation'' in section
4872(d) of title 10, United States Code.
(8) Overseas.--The term ``overseas'' means any area outside
of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a
territory or possession of the United States.
Amendment No. 8 Offered by Mr. Gallagher of Wisconsin
At the end of subtitle B of title II, add the following new
section:
SEC. 2__. AUDIT TO IDENTIFY DIVERSION OF DEPARTMENT OF
DEFENSE FUNDING TO CHINA'S RESEARCH LABS.
(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Department of Defense Office
of Inspector General shall conduct a study, and submit a
report to Congress, regarding the amount of Federal funds
awarded by the Department of Defense (whether directly or
indirectly) through grants, contracts, subgrants,
subcontracts, or any other type of
[[Page H3588]]
agreement or collaboration, during the 10-year period
immediately preceding such date of enactment, that--
(1) was provided, whether purposely or inadvertently, to--
(A) the People's Republic of China;
(B) the Communist Party of China;
(C) the Wuhan Institute of Virology or any other
organization administered by the Chinese Academy of Sciences;
(D) EcoHealth Alliance Inc., including any subsidiaries and
related organizations that are directly controlled by
EcoHealth Alliance, Inc.; or
(E) any other lab, agency, organization, individual, or
instrumentality that is owned, controlled (directly or
indirectly), or overseen (officially or unofficially) by any
of the entities listed in subparagraphs (A) through (D); or
(2) was used to fund research or experiments that could
have resulted in the enhancement of any coronavirus,
influenza, Nipah, Ebola, or other pathogen of pandemic
potential or chimeric versions of such a virus or pathogen in
the People's Republic of China or any other foreign country.
(b) Identification of Countries and Pathogens.--The report
required under subsection (a) shall specify--
(1) the countries in which the research or experiments
described in subsection (a)(2) was conducted; and
(2) the pathogens involved in such research or experiments.
Amendment No. 9 Offered by Mr. DesJarlais of Tennessee
At the end of subtitle C of title XVIII, add the following:
SEC. _. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS.
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act
may be used to engage in direct, bilateral cooperation with
the Government of the People's Republic of China or China-
affiliated organizations on biomedical research programs
without explicit authorization from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and unless such activities are specifically
authorized by a law enacted after the date of enactment of
this Act.
Amendment No. 11 Offered by Mr. Perry of Pennsylvania
Add at the end of subtitle A of title XVIII the following:
SEC. 18__. LIMITATION ON FUNDS.
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be used by a Federal
department or agency to refer to Taiwan as anything other
than ``Taiwan'' in a publication or on a departmental or
agency website.
Amendment No. 12 Offered by Mr. Perry of Pennsylvania
At the end of subtitle A of title XIII, add the following:
SEC. __. LIMITATION ON FUNDS.
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be used to promote a
``one country, two systems'' solution for Taiwan.
Amendment No. 13 Offered by Mr. Perry of Pennsylvania
At the appropriate place in subtitle A of title XIII:
SEC. __. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS WITH RESPECT TO TAIWAN
MILITARY OFFICERS.
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act
or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense may
be used to forbid active duty military officers of Taiwan
from wearing their uniforms during visits to the United
States.
Amendment No. 14 Offered by Mr. Ogles of Tennessee
At the end of subtitle A of title XIII, add the following:
SEC. _. OVERSIGHT OF TAIWAN ENHANCED RESILIENCE ACT.
(a) Oversight of Taiwan Security Programs.--Section 5502 of
the James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263; 136 Stat. 2395; 22
U.S.C. 3351) is amended--
(1) in subsection (e)(2)(A), by inserting ``not later than
1 year after the date of enactment of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 and'' before ``not
less than annually''; and
(2) in subsection (f)(2)--
(A) in subparagraph (L), by striking ``and'' at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (M), by striking the period at the end
and inserting a semicolon; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
``(N) a description of actions taken to establish or expand
a comprehensive training program with Taiwan pursuant to
section 5504;
``(O) a description of actions taken to establish a joint
consultative mechanism with appropriate officials of Taiwan,
and the multi-year plan to provide for the acquisition of
appropriate defensive capabilities by Taiwan, pursuant to
section 5506 ; and
``(P) the list compiled pursuant to section 5507(a), and a
description of actions taken pursuant to sections 5507(b) and
5507(c).''.
(b) Oversight of Regional Contingency Stockpile for
Taiwan.--Section 5503 of the James M. Inhofe National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-263;
136 Stat. 2395) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
``(e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In
subsection (d), the term ``appropriate committees of
Congress'' means--
``(1) the congressional defense committees; and
``(2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate.''.
Amendment No. 15 Offered by Mrs. McClain of Michigan
Page 1033, after line 14, add the following:
SEC. 1859. DEFUND WUHAN INSITITUTE OF VIROLOGY AND ECOHEALTH
ALLIANCE, INC.
(a) Wuhan Institute of Virology.--None of the funds
authorized to be appropriated under this Act may be made
available for the Wuhan Institute of Virology for any
purpose.
(b) EcoHealth Alliance, Inc..--None of the funds authorized
to be appropriated under this Act may be made available for
any purpose to--
(1) EcoHealth Alliance, Inc.;
(2) any subsidiary of EcoHealth Alliance, Inc.;
(3) any organization that is directly controlled by
EcoHealth Alliance, Inc.; or
(4) any organization or individual that is a subgrantee or
subcontractor of EcoHealth Alliance, Inc.
Amendment No. 16 Offered by Mr. Molinaro of New York
Page 74, line 18, strike the semicolon and insert ``and the
identification of potential vulnerabilities in the military
systems and infrastructure of the United States that could be
exploited by adversarial artificial intelligence applications
used by the People's Republic of China, the Russian
Federation, and other nefarious actors of concern;''.
Amendment No. 17 Offered by Mr. Garamendi of California
At the appropriate place in subtitle B of title VIII,
insert the following:
SEC. 8__. STRENGTHENING TRUTHFUL COST OR PRICING DATA
REQUIREMENTS.
(a) Required Cost or Pricing Data and Certification.--
Section 3702(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by striking ``only expected to receive one bid shall
be required'' and inserting ``only expected to have one
offeror, or for which award of a cost-reimbursement contract
is contemplated regardless of the number of offers received,
shall be required''.
(b) Exceptions.--Section 3703(a) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended--
(1) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``adequate
competition'' and all that follows through ``bids'' and
inserting ``adequate price competition, except for the award
of a cost-reimbursement contract, that results in at least
two responsive and viable competing offerors''; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``based on adequate
price competition that results in at least two responsive and
responsible offers'' after ``commercial service''.
(c) Conforming Amendment Related to Civilian Contracts.--
Section 3503(a)(2) of title 41, United States Code, is
amended by inserting ``based on adequate price competition
that results in at least two responsive and responsible
offers'' after ``commercial service''.
Amendment No. 18 Offered by Mr. Reschenthaler of Pennsylvania
At the end of subtitle E of title XII, add the following:
SEC. _. REPORT.
(a) Report.--
(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall
submit to Congress a report on whether any products sold at
commissary or exchange stores in fiscal years 2022 or 2023
were produced by companies described in paragraph (2) that
have participated in a boycott action against the State of
Israel.
(2) Companies described.--The companies described in this
paragraph are companies that--
(A) have entered into a contract with the Department of
Defense to sell products described in paragraph (1) the total
value of which exceeds $100,000; or
(B) companies that have more than 10 full-time employees.
(b) Sense of Congress.--Congress is concerned about the
antisemitic efforts of the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions
(BDS) movement against the State of Israel, including its
efforts to delegitimize, isolate, and ultimately destroy the
Jewish state.
(c) Definition.--In subsection (a), the term ``boycott
action against the State of Israel'' means engaging in a
boycott action targeting the State of Israel, companies or
individuals doing business in or with the State of Israel, or
companies authorized by, licensed by, or organized under the
laws of the State of Israel to do business.
amendment no. 19 offered by mr. lamborn of colorado
At the appropriate place in title VIII, insert the
following:
SEC. 8__. PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH CERTAIN ENTITIES.
(a) Prohibition.--
(1) In general.--Except as provided under subsection (b),
the Department of Defense may not enter into, renew, or
extend a contract for the procurement of goods or services
with an entity described in paragraph (2).
(2) Entities described.--An entity described in this
paragraph is an entity that is engaged in a boycott of the
State of Israel.
(b) Exceptions.--
(1) National security.--The prohibition under subsection
(a) does not apply--
(A) to the procurement of defense articles or defense
services under existing contracts
[[Page H3589]]
or subcontracts, including the exercise of options, for
production quantities to satisfy requirements essential to
the national security of the United States;
(B) if the President determines in writing that--
(i) the entity otherwise sanctioned pursuant to subsection
(a) is a sole source supplier of the defense articles or
services;
(ii) the defense articles or services are essential; and
(iii) alternative sources are not readily or reasonably
available;
(C) if the President determines in writing that such
articles or services are essential to the national security
under defense production agreements; or
(D) to the procurement of--
(i) spare parts that are essential to United States
products or production;
(ii) component parts essential to United States products or
production;
(iii) routine servicing and maintenance of products, to the
extent that alternative sources are not readily or reasonably
available; or
(iv) information and technology essential to United States
products or production.
(2) National security waiver.--The President may waive the
application of subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis for
periods not to exceed 180 days if the President--
(A) determines that the waiver is in the vital national
security interest of the United States; and
(B) submits to the appropriate congressional committees a
report on the determination and the reasons for the
determination.
(3) Intelligence waiver.--The President may waive the
application of subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis for
periods not to exceed 180 days if the President--
(A) determines that the waiver is necessary to prevent the
disclosure of intelligence sources or methods; and
(B) submits to the appropriate congressional committees a
report, consistent with the protection of intelligence
sources and methods, on the determination and the reasons for
the determination.
(c) Requirement to Revise Regulations.--Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal
Acquisition Regulation, the Defense Federal Acquisition
Regulation Supplement, and the Uniform Administrative
Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for
Federal Awards shall be revised to implement subsection (a).
(d) Remedies for False Information.--If the head of an
executive agency determines that an entity has submitted
false information pursuant to the requirements of subsection
(a) on or after the date on which the applicable revision of
regulations required under subsection (c) becomes effective--
(1) the head of the executive agency shall terminate any
contract awarded to such entity as a result of such false
information and debar or suspend such person from eligibility
for Federal contracts for a period of not less than 4 years
in accordance with the procedures that apply to debarment and
suspension under the Federal Acquisition Regulation; and
(2) the Administrator of General Services shall include the
entity on the ``List of Parties Excluded from Federal
Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs'' maintained by the
Administrator under part 9 of the Federal Acquisition
Regulation.
(e) Definitions.--In this section:
(1) The term ``boycott action'' means refusing to deal,
terminating business activities, or limiting commercial
relations.
(2) The term ``boycott of the State of Israel'' means
engaging in a boycott action targeting--
(A) the State of Israel; and
(B)(i) companies or individuals doing business in or with
the State of Israel; or
(ii) companies authorized by, licensed by, or organized
under the laws of the State of Israel to do business.
(3) The term ``entity'' includes--
(A) a corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
or similar entity; and
(B) any wholly-owned subsidiary, majority-owned subsidiary,
parent company, or affiliate of an entity described in
subparagraph (A).
amendment no. 26 offered by mr. desjarlais of tennessee
At the end of subtitle C of title XVIII, add the following:
SEC. _. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS.
None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act
may be used to further any nuclear agreement with Iran that
has not received explicit Congressional approval.
amendment no. 29 offered by mr. donalds of florida
At the end of subtitle C of title XXXI, insert the
following:
SEC. 31__. MILITARY DEPARTMENT USE OF ADVANCED NUCLEAR
REACTORS.
(a) In General.--The Secretary of each of the military
departments shall submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a statement that, if the military department
concerned certifies in such statement that it is interested
in potentially using advanced nuclear technology, an
identification of what the individual branch would need in
regards to enhancing regulatory certainty relating to
deploying advanced nuclear reactors for military operations
and logistical support.
(b) Definitions.--In this section:
(1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees''
means--
(A) the Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services,
Energy and Commerce, and Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives; and
(B) the Committees on Appropriations, Armed Services,
Environment and Public Works, and Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(2) The term ``advanced nuclear reactor'' means--
(A) a nuclear fission reactor, including a prototype plant
(as defined in sections 50.2 and 52.1 of title 10, Code of
Federal Regulations (or successor regulations)), with
significant improvements compared to reactors operating on
October 19, 2016, including improvements such as--
(i) additional inherent safety features;
(ii) lower waste yields;
(iii) improved fuel and material performance;
(iv) increased tolerance to loss of fuel cooling;
(v) enhanced reliability or improved resilience;
(vi) increased proliferation resistance;
(vii) increased thermal efficiency;
(viii) reduced consumption of cooling water and other
environmental impacts;
(ix) the ability to integrate into electric applications
and nonelectric applications;
(x) modular sizes to allow for deployment that corresponds
with the demand for electricity or process heat; and
(xi) operational flexibility to respond to changes in
demand for electricity or process heat and to complement
integration with intermittent renewable energy or energy
storage;
(B) a fusion reactor; and
(C) a radioisotope power system that utilizes heat from
radioactive decay to generate energy.
amendment no. 36 offered by mr. jackson of texas
At the appropriate place in subtitle A of title V, insert
the following:
SEC. 5__. PROHIBITIONS ON CERTAIN ADVERSE ACTIONS REGARDING A
CADET, MIDSHIPMAN, OR APPLICANT TO A SERVICE
ACADEMY, WHO REFUSES TO RECEIVE A VACCINATION
AGAINST COVID-19.
(a) Adverse Action.--No adverse action may be taken against
a cadet or midshipman at a Service Academy solely on the
basis that such cadet or midshipman refuses to receive a
vaccination against COVID-19.
(b) Enrollment.--An individual may not be refused
enrollment at a Service Academy solely on the basis that such
individual refuses to receive a vaccination against COVID-19.
(c) Service Academy Defined.--In this section, the term
``Service Academy'' has the meaning given such term in
section 347 of title 10, United States Code.
amendment no. 37 offered by mr. wenstrup of ohio
At the appropriate place in subtitle C of title VII, insert
the following:
SEC. 5__. STUDY ON BLOOD WORK OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES
REGARDING COVID-19.
(a) Study Required.--Not later than September 30, 2024, the
Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study to test the blood
of members of the Armed Forces relating to relating to COVID-
19.
(b) Elements.--The study under this section shall include
the following elements:
(1) Testing to detect nucleocapsid protein immunoglobin-G
antibodies relating to COVID-19.
(2) Testing to detect T-cell immune response to COVID-19.
(3) An assessment of the efficacy of each vaccine for
COVID-19 in comparison to--
(A) each other such vaccine; and
(B) infection-acquired immunity.
(4) An accounting of adverse events (including hyperimmune
response), disaggregated by--
(A) each vaccine described in paragraph (3); and
(B) history of infection.
(c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after completing the
study, the Secretary shall submit a report on such study to
the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of
Representatives.
amendment no. 38 offered by mr. banks of indiana
Page 194, line 12, insert ``or, with respect the Coast
Guard, the Secretary of the department in which the Secretary
is operating when the Coast Guard is not operating as a
service in the Navy,'' after ``military department
concerned''.
Page 195, line 20, insert ``Coast Guard,'' before ``or
Space''.
Page 196, line 20, insert ``Coast Guard,'' before ``or
Space''.
Page 197, line 9, insert ``or, with respect the Coast
Guard, the Secretary of the department in which the Secretary
is operating when the Coast Guard is not operating as a
service in the Navy'' after ``military departments''.
Page 197, line 25, insert ``Coast Guard,'' before ``or
Space''.
amendment no. 39 offered by mr. norman of south carolina
At the end of subtitle B of title VII, add the following
new section:
[[Page H3590]]
SEC. ___. PROHIBITION OF MASK MANDATE TO PREVENT THE SPREAD
OF COVID-19 ON A MILITARY INSTALLATION IN THE
UNITED STATES.
The Secretary of Defense may not require that an individual
wear a mask, in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19, on a
military installation inside the United States.
amendment no. 42 offered by mr. pfluger of texas
At the end of title XVIII, insert the following:
SEC. __. PRIOR NOTIFICATION OF HOUSING MIGRANTS ON MILITARY
BASES.
The Secretary of Defense shall notify local, State, and
Federal elected officials not later than 90 days before the
Department of Defense uses, creates, or repurposes a military
base to house migrants.
amendment no. 43 offered by mr. biggs of arizona
Add at the end of subtitle B of title XII the following:
SEC. 1220A. REPORT ON AGREEMENTS MADE BY THE UNITED STATES
WITH THE TALIBAN.
(a) Congressional Review of Agreements Made With the
Taliban.--The Secretary of State, in coordination with the
Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of the United
States Agency for International Development, shall submit to
the appropriate congressional committees the following:
(1) Any agreement made and entered into by the United
States and the Taliban. Submission thereof shall occur not
later than 30 days prior to entry absent notification to the
appropriate congressional committees, in which case
submission thereof shall occur not later than 10 days prior
to taking effect.
(2) Any agreement made and entered into by third parties
and the Taliban or notice of any such agreement. Submission
of any such agreement or notice thereof shall occur not later
than 30 days after custody by the United States.
(b) Report on Prior Agreements With the Taliban.--Not later
than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary of
Defense and the Administrator of the United States Agency for
International Development, shall submit to the appropriate
congressional committees any agreements made and entered into
by the United States or third parties and the Taliban from
August 1, 2021, until such date of enactment.
(c) Definitions.--In this section:
(1) Agreement.--The term ``agreement'' includes memoranda
of understanding and other manifestations of mutual assent.
(2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term
``appropriate congressional committees'' means the
congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign
Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on
Foreign Relations of the Senate.
(3) Third parties.--The term ``third parties'' means
organizations or entities in receipt of United States
Government funding, including sub-recipients thereof.
amendment no. 44 offered by mr. rosendale of montana
At the end of subtitle D of title X, insert the following:
SEC. 10__. LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY OF ARMED FORCES TO DETAIN
CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES.
Section 1021(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 801 note)
is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by
inserting ``, other than a citizen of the United States,''
after ``any person''.
Amendment No. 53 Offered by Mr. Norman of South Carolina
At the end of subtitle A of title X, insert the following:
SEC. 10__. AUDIT REQUIREMENT FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
COMPONENTS.
(a) In General.--During fiscal year 2024, and during each
of the nine fiscal years thereafter, each component of the
Department of Defense shall be subject to an independent
audit. Any such component that fails to be subject to such an
audit during any fiscal year shall have 1.5 percent of
unobligated amounts available for the component be cancelled
and returned to the general fund of the Treasury for deficit
reduction, except as provided in subsection (b).
(b) Exceptions.--The following accounts are excluded from
any reductions:
(1) Military personnel, reserve personnel, and National
Guard personnel accounts of the Department of Defense.
(2) The Defense Health Program account of the Department of
Defense.
Amendment No. 54 Offered by Mr. Biggs of Arizona
At the end of subtitle A of title X, add the following new
section:
SEC. 10__. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SPENDING REDUCTIONS IN
ABSENCE OF SUBMITTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OR
FAILURE TO ACHIEVE UNQUALIFIED OR QUALIFIED
INDEPENDENT AUDIT OPINION.
(a) Applicability.--
(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), this section
applies to the Department of Defense, including military
departments and Defense Agencies thereof.
(2) Separate applicability.--If a military department or
Defense Agency is identified by the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget as required to have its own audited
financial statement under section 3515 of title 31, United
States Code, that military department and Defense Agency
shall be treated separately from the Department of Defense
for purposes of application of this section.
(b) Definitions.--In this section:
(1) The terms ``financial statement'' and ``external
independent auditor'' have the meanings given those terms in
section 3521(e) of title 31, United States Code.
(3) The term ``unqualified'', with respect to the audit
status of a financial statement, includes the
characterizations clean and unmodified.
(2) The term ``qualified'', with respect to the audit
status of a financial statement, includes the
characterization modified.
(c) Adjustments for Financial Accountability.--
(1) In general.--On March 2 of each fiscal year, the
discretionary budget authority available for the Department
of Defense (or a military department or Defense Agency
covered by subsection (a)(2)) for such fiscal year shall be
adjusted as provided in paragraph (2).
(2) Adjustment.--If the Department of Defense (or a
military department or Defense Agency covered by subsection
(a)(2)) has not submitted a financial statement for the
previous fiscal year, or if such financial statement has not
received either an unqualified or a qualified audit opinion
by an independent external auditor, the discretionary budget
authority available for the Department of Defense, the
military department, or the Defense Agency (as the case may
be) shall be reduced by .5 percent, with the reduction
applied proportionately to each account (other than an
account listed in subsection (d) or an account for which a
waiver is made under subsection (e)).
(3) Minimizes national security effects.--Consistent with
applicable laws, the Secretary of Defense may make any
reduction under paragraph (2) in a manner that minimizes any
effect on national security.
(4) Deficit reduction.--An amount equal to the total amount
of any reduction under paragraph (2) shall be retained in the
general fund of the Treasury for the purposes of deficit
reduction.
(d) Accounts Excluded.--The following accounts are excluded
from any reductions referred to in subsection (c)(2):
(1) Military personnel, reserve personnel, and National
Guard personnel accounts of the Department of Defense.
(2) The Defense Health Program account of the Department of
Defense.
(e) Waiver.--The President may waive subsection (c)(2) with
respect to an account if the President certifies that
applying the subsection to that account would harm national
security or members of the Armed Forces who are deployed in
combat zones.
(f) Report.--Not later than 60 days after an adjustment
under subsection (c), the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall submit to Congress a report
describing the amount and account of each adjustment.
Amendment No. 60 Offered by Mr. Gosar of Arizona
At the end of subtitle G of title X, insert the following:
SEC. 10__. PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF AFGHANISTAN WAR RECORDS.
The Secretary of Defense shall expeditiously disclose to
the public all records relating to the war in Afghanistan.
Amendment No. 65 Offered by Mr. Luttrell of Texas
At the end of subtitle B of title XII, add the following
new section:
SEC. 12__. REPORT ON PROVISION OF FUNDING AND OTHER
ASSISTANCE TO IRAQI POPULAR MOBILIZATION
FORCES.
(a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the
Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the
Secretary of State, shall jointly submit to the appropriate
congressional committees a report containing--
(1) an assessment of whether United States assistance has
been provided to, or has benefitted, the Iraqi Popular
Mobilization Forces for military training or professional
military education, including through assistance provided to
the Ministry of Defense of Iraq;
(2) an assessment of whether United States assistance has
been provided to, or has benefitted, any person who is--
(A) a member of any organization designated a foreign
terrorist organization by the Secretary of State under
section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1189); or
(B) a person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to
be a specially designated national.
(3) a description of how the government of Iraq and the
Federal budget of such government provide direct funding to
the Iraqi Popular Mobilization Forces; and
(4) an assessment of how the relationship and interactions
between the Ministry of Defense of Iraq and the Iraqi Popular
Mobilization Forces affect the Strategic Framework Agreement
for a Relationship of Friendship and Cooperation between the
United States and the Republic of Iraq, done at Baghdad on
November 17, 2008, and entered into force January 1, 2009.
(b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this
section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees''
means--
[[Page H3591]]
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on
Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence
of the Senate.
Amendment No. 67 Offered by Mr. Mike Garcia of California
At the end of subtitle A of title V, add the following new
section:
SEC. 6__. INCREASES TO MONTHLY RATES OF BASIC PAY FOR CERTAIN
ENLISTED MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.
(a) Establishment of Certain Minimum Rates.--Beginning on
January 1, 2024, the rate of monthly basic pay for certain
enlisted members of the uniformed services shall be paid in
accordance with the following:
(1) In the case of a member in grade E-1 with more than
four months of service, such rate may not be less than
$2,600.60.
(2) In the case of a member in grade E-2, such rate may not
be less than $2,799.20.
(3) In the case of a member in grade E-3--
(A) with less than three years of service, such rate may
not be less than $2,900.90;
(B) with at least three, but less than four, years of
service, such rate may not be less than $2,950.60;
(C) with at least four, but less than six, years of
service, such rate may not be less than $3,000.60; and
(D) with at least six years of service, such rate may not
be less than $3,050.60.
(4) In the case of a member in grade E-4--
(A) with less than two years of service, such rate may not
be less than $3,010.50;
(B) with at least two, but less than three, years of
service, such rate may not be less than $3,060.60;
(C) with at least two, but less than three, years of
service, such rate may not be less than $3,100.10;
(D) with at least four, but less than six, years of
service, such rate may not be less than $3,150.80;
(E) with at least six, but less than eight, years of
service, such rate may not be less than $3,210.30; and
(F) with at least eight years of service, such rate may not
be less than $3,260.30.
(5) In the case of a member in grade E-5--
(A) with less than two years of service, such rate may not
be less than $3,100.30;
(B) with at least two, but less than three, years of
service, such rate may not be less than $3,150.20;
(C) with at least two, but less than three, years of
service, such rate may not be less than $3,200.20; and
(D) with at least four years of service, such rate may not
be less than $3,250.20.
(6) In the case of a member in grade E-6 with less than two
years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,210.
(b) Adjustment.--Any adjustment, under section 1009 of
title 37, United States Code, and effective on January 1,
2024, to a rate of basic monthly pay for a member described
in subsection (a), shall be an adjustment to the applicable
rate established by such subsection.
Amendment No. 68 Offered by Mrs. Boebert of Colorado
In subtitle D of title XXVIII, add at the end the
following:
SEC. 28__. CLOSURE AND DISPOSAL OF THE PUEBLO CHEMICAL DEPOT,
PUEBLO COUNTY, COLORADO.
(a) In General.--The Secretary of the Army shall close
Pueblo Chemical Depot in Pueblo County, Colorado (in this
section referred to as the ``Depot''), not later than one
year after the completion of the chemical demilitarization
mission in such location in accordance with the Chemical
Weapons Convention Treaty.
(b) Procedures.--The Secretary of the Army shall carry out
the closure and subsequent related property management and
disposal of the Depot, including the land, buildings,
structures, infrastructure, and associated equipment,
installed equipment, material, and personal property that
comprise the Chemical Agent-Destruction Pilot Plant, in
accordance with the procedures and authorities for the
closure, management, and disposal of property under the
appropriate base closure laws (as defined in section 101 of
title 10, United States Code).
(c) Office of Local Defense Community Cooperation
Activities.--The Office of Local Defense Community
Cooperation of the Department of Defense may make grants and
supplement other Federal funds pursuant to section 2391 of
title 10, United States Code, to support closure and reuse
activities of the Depot.
(d) Treatment of Existing Permits.--Nothing in this section
shall be construed to prevent the removal or demolition by
the Program Executive Office, Assembled Chemical Weapons
Alternatives of the Department of the Army of existing
buildings, structures, infrastructure, and associated
equipment, installed equipment, material, and personal
property of the Chemical Agent-Destruction Pilot Plant at the
Depot in accordance with the existing Hazardous Waste Permit
Number CO-20-09-02-01 under the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42
U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) (commonly known as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976) issued by the State of
Colorado, or any associated or follow-on permits under such
Act.
(e) Homeless Use.--Given the nature of activities
undertaken at the Chemical Agent-Destruction Pilot Plant at
the Depot, such land, buildings, structures, infrastructure,
and associated equipment, installed equipment, material, and
personal property comprising the Chemical Agent-Destruction
Pilot Plant is deemed unsuitable use to assist the homeless,
and in carrying out any closure, management, or disposal of
property under this section, need not be screened for use to
assist the homeless pursuant to section 2905(b) of the
Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of
title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note).
Amendment No. 70 Offered by Mr. Cloud of Texas
At the end of title VIII, add the following:
SEC.___ . REVIEW OF PROPOSED ACTIONS.
Section 183a(c)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is
amended by inserting ``The Clearinghouse shall ensure that a
governor has at least 120 days after the date on which the
governor receives the notice of presumed risk to provide any
such comments and shall provide detailed information and
other information necessary to ensure that the governor can
fully understand the nature of the presumed risk'' after the
first sentence.
amendment 71 offered by mr. edwards of north carolina
At the end of subtitle E of title XXVIII, insert the
following:
SEC. 28__. SURVEY OF CERTAIN COUNTIES FOR PLACEMENT OF
FACILITIES.
(a) Survey Required.--Not later than one year afer the date
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall
submit to Congress the results of a survey of the counties
described in subsection (b) to assess potential placement of
operational, training, or other facilities for use by the
military departments in such counties.
(b) Counties Described.--The counties described in this
subsection are located in the State of North Carolina and are
as follows:
(1) Buncombe County.
(2) Cherokee County.
(3) Clay County.
(4) Graham County.
(5) Haywood County.
(6) Henderson County.
(7) Jackson County.
(8) Macon County.
(9) Madison County.
(10) McDowell County.
(11) Polk County.
(12) Rutherford County.
(13) Swain County.
(14) Transylvania County.
(15) Yancey County.
(c) Survey Requirements.--The survey required under
subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1) An assessment of the mountainous and varied terrains in
the areas described in subsection (b) and the feasibility of
programs that use this geography, including programs for
basic survival skills, dam and reservoir exercises,
whitewater rafting exercises, thick vegetation exercises, air
drop exercises, and mountainous warfare exercises.
(2) An evaluation of defense assets located in the State of
North Carolina and the lack of defense assets in the area
described in subsection (b).
(d) Survey Considerations.--The survey shall assesses the
feasibility of the placement of operational, training, and
other facilities as follows:
(1) Consideration of relevant civilian assets in the area
described in subsection (b).
(2) Consideration of assets of Department of Defense
contractors in such area.
(3) Proximity of such to current defense assets, including
Fort Liberty.
(4) Consideration of the geographic similarities of such
area to geographic regions critical to United States defense
policy, including the Indo-Pacific region, Europe, the Middle
East, and Africa.
amendment no. 72 offered by mr. lawler of new york
At the end of subtitle A of title XIII, insert the
following new section:
SEC. 13__. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE SHARING
BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA, JAPAN, AND
TAIWAN.
It is the sense of the Congress that defense intelligence
sharing between the United States and the Republic of Korea,
Japan, and Taiwan, is crucial for identifying and countering
the malign activities of the People's Republic of China and
the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, that threaten the
interests of the United States, our allies and partners in
the Indo-Pacific region.
amendment no. 73 offered by mr. gallagher of wisconsin
At the end of subtitle E of title XII, add the following
new section:
SEC. 12__. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS PENDING PLAN
REGARDING DELIVERY OF HARPOON MISSILES AND
OTHER COASTAL DEFENSE CAPABILITIES TO SECURITY
PARTNERS.
(a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2024,
and available for the Office of the Secretary of Defense for
the travel of persons, not more than 90 percent may be
obligated or expended until the date on which the Under
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment submits
to the congressional defense committees the plan required
under subsection (b).
(b) Plan Required.--
[[Page H3592]]
(1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition and Sustainment shall develop and implement a
plan to provide covered Harpoon missiles to security partners
pursuant to the authority provided under section 506 of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2318).
(2) Elements.--The plan under paragraph (1) shall address
the following:
(A) Lessons learned from any similar experiences in support
of military forces of security partners in 2022.
(B) Consultation with private industry.
(C) Use of existing ground-based launchers.
(D) Use of existing vehicles of the Federal Government.
(E) Integration and modernization of required systems.
(F) Any security risks, challenges, and mitigation steps
required.
(G) Expected costs.
(H) A timeline for the delivery of covered Harpoon missiles
to security partners.
(3) Submittal to congress.--Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, shall submit to the
congressional defense committees the plan required under
paragraph (1).
(c) Covered Harpoon Missile Defined.--In this section, the
term ``covered Harpoon missile'' means a block IC Harpoon
missile designated with a ``sundown'', ``deep stow'', or
``demilitarized'' condition code and includes missiles with
that designation that have been removed from surface vessels
of the Navy.
amendment no. 74 offered by mr. tony gonzales of texas
At the appropriate place in title XI, insert the following:
SEC. 11__. NATIONAL DIGITAL RESERVE CORPS.
(a) In General.--Subpart I of part III of title 5, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following
new chapter:
``CHAPTER 104--NATIONAL DIGITAL RESERVE CORPS
``10401. Definitions.
``10402. Establishment.
``10403. Organization.
``10404. Assignments.
``10405. Reservist continuing education.
``10406. Congressional reports.
``10407. Construction.
``Sec. 10401. Definitions
``In this chapter:
``(1) Active reservist.--The term `active reservist' means
a reservist holding a position to which such reservist has
been appointed under section 10403(c)(2).
``(2) Administrator.--The term `Administrator' means the
Administrator of the General Services Administration.
``(3) Covered executive agency.--The term `covered
Executive agency' means an Executive agency as defined in
section 105, except that such term includes the United States
Postal Service, the Postal Regulatory Commission, and the
Executive Office of the President.
``(4) Program.--The term `Program' means the program
established under section 10402(a).
``(5) Reservist.--The term `reservist' means an individual
who is a member of the National Digital Reserve Corps.
``Sec. 10402. Establishment
``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the General
Services Administration a program to establish, recruit,
manage, and assign a reserve of individuals with relevant
skills and credentials, to be known as the `National Digital
Reserve Corps', to help address the digital and cybersecurity
needs of covered Executive agencies.
``(b) Implementation.--
``(1) Guidance.--Not later than six months after the date
of the enactment of this section, the Administrator, in
consultation with the Director of the Office of Personnel
Management, shall issue guidance for the National Digital
Reserve Corps, which shall include procedures for
coordinating with covered Executive agencies to--
``(A) identify digital and cybersecurity needs which may be
addressed by the National Digital Reserve Corps; and
``(B) assign active reservists to address such needs.
``(2) Recruitment and initial assignments.--Not later than
one year after the date of the enactment of this section, the
Administrator shall begin recruiting reservists and assigning
active reservists under the Program.
``Sec. 10403. Organization
``(a) Administration.--
``(1) In general.--The National Digital Reserve Corps shall
be administered by the Administrator.
``(2) Responsibilities.--In carrying out the Program, the
Administrator shall--
``(A) establish standards for serving as a reservist,
including educational attainment, professional
qualifications, and background checks in accordance with
existing Federal guidance;
``(B) ensure the standards established under subparagraph
(A) are met;
``(C) recruit individuals to the National Digital Reserve
Corps;
``(D) activate and deactivate reservists as necessary;
``(E) coordinate with covered Executive agencies to--
``(i) determine the digital and cybersecurity needs which
reservists shall be assigned to address;
``(ii) ensure active reservists have access, resources, and
equipment required to address digital and cybersecurity needs
which such reservists are assigned to address; and
``(iii) analyze potential assignments for reservists to
determine outcomes, develop anticipated assignment timelines,
and identify covered Executive agency partners;
``(F) ensure reservists acquire and maintain appropriate
security clearances; and
``(G) determine what additional resources, if any, are
required to successfully implement the Program.
``(b) National Digital Reserve Corps Participation.--
``(1) Service obligation agreement.--
``(A) In general.--An individual may become a reservist
only if such individual enters into a written agreement with
the Administrator to become a reservist.
``(B) Contests.--The agreement under subparagraph (A)
shall--
``(i) require the individual seeking to become a reservist
to serve as a reservist for a 3-year period, during which
such individual shall serve not less than 30 days per year as
an active reservist; and
``(ii) set forth all other the rights and obligations of
the individual and the General Services Administration.
``(2) Compensation.--The Administrator shall determine the
appropriate compensation for service as a reservist, except
that the annual pay for such service shall not exceed
$10,000.
``(3) Employment protections.--The Secretary of Labor shall
prescribe such regulations as necessary to ensure the
reemployment, continuation of benefits, and nondiscrimination
in reemployment of active reservists, provided that such
regulations shall include, at a minimum, those rights and
obligations set forth under chapter 43 of title 38.
``(4) Penalties.--
``(A) In general.--A reservist that fails to accept an
appointment under subsection (c)(2) or fails to carry out the
duties assigned to a reservist under such an appointment
shall, after notice and an opportunity to be heard--
``(i) cease to be a reservist; and
``(ii) be fined an amount equal to the sum of--
``(I) an amount equal to the amounts, if any, paid under
section 10405 with respect to such reservist; and
``(II) the difference between the amount of compensation
such reservist would have received if the reservist completed
the entire term of service as a reservist agreed to in the
agreement described in paragraph (1) and the amount of
compensation such reservist has received under such
agreement.
``(B) Exception.--
``(i) In general.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply with
respect to a failure of a reservist to accept an appointment
under subsection (c)(2) or to carry out the duties assigned
to the reservist under such an appointment if--
``(I) the failure was due to the death or disability of
such reservist; or
``(II) the Administrator, in consultation with the head of
the relevant covered Executive agency, determines that
subparagraph (A) should not apply with respect to the
failure.
``(ii) Relevant covered executive agency defined.--In this
subparagraph, the term `relevant covered Executive agency'
means--
``(I) in the case of a reservist failing to accept an
appointment under subsection (c)(2), the covered Executive
agency to which such reservist would have been appointed; and
``(II) in the case of a reservist failing to carry out the
duties assigned to such reservist under such an appointment,
the covered Executive agency to which such reservist was
appointed.
``(c) Hiring Authority.--
``(1) Corps leadership.--The Administrator may appoint
qualified candidates to positions in the competitive service
in the General Service Administration for which the primary
duties are related to the management or administration of the
National Digital Reserve Corps, as determined by the
Administrator.
``(2) Corps reservists.--
``(A) In general.--The Administrator may appoint qualified
reservists to temporary positions in the competitive service
for the purpose of assigning such reservists under section
10404 and to otherwise carry out the National Digital Reserve
Corps.
``(B) Appointment limits.--
``(i) In general.--The Administrator may not appoint an
individual under this paragraph if, during the 365-day period
ending on the date of such appointment, such individual has
been an officer or employee of the executive or legislative
branch of the United States Government, of any independent
agency of the United States, or of the District of Columbia
for not less than 130 days.
``(ii) Automatic appointment termination.--The appointment
of an individual under this paragraph shall terminate upon
such individual being employed as an officer or employee of
the executive or legislative branch of the United States
Government, of any independent agency of the United States,
or of the District of Columbia for 130 days during the
previous 365 days.
``(C) Employee status.--An individual appointed under this
paragraph shall be considered a special Government employee
(as such term is defined in section 202(a) of title 18).
[[Page H3593]]
``(D) Conflict of interest.--Individuals appointed under
this section shall not, as an active reservist, have access
to proprietary or confidential information that is of
commercial value to any private entity or individual
employing such appointee.
``(E) Additional employees.--Individuals appointed under
this paragraph shall be in addition to any employees of the
General Services Administration whose duties relate to the
digital or cybersecurity needs of the General Services
Administration.
``Sec. 10404. Assignments
``(a) In General.--The Administrator may assign active
reservists to address the digital and cybersecurity needs of
covered Executive agencies, including cybersecurity services,
digital education and training, data triage, acquisition
assistance, guidance on digital projects, development of
technical solutions, and bridging public needs and private
sector capabilities.
``(b) Assignment-specific Access, Resources, Supplies, or
Equipment.--The head of a covered Executive agency shall, to
the extent practicable, provide each active reservist
assigned to address a digital or cybersecurity need of such
covered Executive agency under subsection (a) with any
specialized access, resources, supplies, or equipment
required to address such digital or cybersecurity need.
``(c) Duration.--An assignment of an individual under
subsection (a) shall terminate on the earlier of--
``(1) the date determined by the Administrator;
``(2) the date on which the Administrator receives
notification of the decision of the head of the covered
Executive agency, the digital or cybersecurity needs of which
such individual is assigned to address under subsection (a),
that such assignment should terminate; or
``(3) the date on which the assigned individual ceases to
be an active reservist.
``Sec. 10405. Reservist continuing education
``(a) In General.--Subject to the availability of
appropriations, the Administrator may pay for reservists to
acquire training and receive continuing education related to
the duties assigned to such reservists pursuant to
appointments under section 10403(c)(2), including attending
conferences and seminars and obtaining certifications, that
will enable reservists to more effectively meet the digital
and cybersecurity needs of covered Executive agencies.
``(b) Application.--The Administrator shall establish a
process for reservists to apply for the payment of reasonable
expenses related to the training or continuing education
described in subsection (a).
``(c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this section, and annually thereafter, the
Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on the
expenditures under this subsection.
``Sec. 10406. Congressional reports
``Not later than two years after the date of the enactment
of this section, and annually thereafter, the Administrator
shall submit to Congress a report on the Program, including--
``(1) the number of reservists;
``(2) a list of covered Executive agencies that have
submitted requests for support from the National Digital
Reserve Corps;
``(3) the nature and status of such requests; and
``(4) with respect to each such request to which active
reservists have been assigned and for which work by the
National Digital Reserve Corps has concluded, an evaluation
of such work and the results of such work by--
``(A) the covered Executive agency that submitted the
request; and
``(B) the reservists assigned to such request.
``Sec. 10407. Construction
``Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to abrogate or
otherwise affect the authorities or the responsibilities of
the head of any other Executive agency.''.
(b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of chapters for part III
of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item related to chapter 103 the following new item:
``104. National Digital Reserve Corps.........................10401....
''.
(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized
to be appropriated $30,000,000, to remain available until
fiscal year 2025 to carry out the program established under
section 10402(a) of title 5, United States Code, as added by
this section.
(d) Transition Assistance Program.--Section 1142(b)(3) of
title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``and
the National Digital Reserve Corps'' after ``Selected
Reserve''.
(e) Offset.--Notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the
funding tables in division D, the amounts authorized to be
appropriated in section 301 for operation and maintence,
Defense-wide, for Office of the Secretary of Defense, Line
490, as specified in the corresponding funding table in
section 4301, is hereby reduced by $30,000,000.
amendment no. 75 offered by mr. gallagher of wisconsin
At end of subtitle A of title XIII, add the following:
SEC. __. REPORT ON DEFENSE SUPPORT FOR TAIWAN.
(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in
consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the
appropriate committees of Congress a report containing an
evaluation of the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) processes
across all military services for the provision of defense
articles, defense services, and training to Taiwan pursuant
to the Taiwan Relations Act (22 U.S.C. 3301 et seq.).
(b) Matters to Be Included.--Such report shall contain the
following:
(1) A description of price and availability data with
respect to the provision of defense articles, defense
services, and training requested by Taiwan during the 2-year
period preceding the report.
(2) A description of timelines from price and availability
data requested to price and availability data provided to
Taiwan of articles, services, and training described in
paragraph (1), including an identification of the specific
service lead associated with the provision of such articles,
services, and training.
(3) A description of when articles, services, and training
described in paragraph (1) were provided to the Department of
State for FMS authorization.
(4) An evaluation of military training activities conducted
with Taiwan during the 2-year period preceding the report,
including--
(A) the objectives of such training activities;
(B) funding authority, unless national funds were applied;
and
(C) an evaluation of the effectiveness of such training
activities, including the strengths and weaknesses in
Taiwan's capacity to absorb the training provided.
(5) A description of the articles, services, and training
described in paragraph (1) planned to be provided to Taiwan
during the 1-year period after the period covered by the
report.
(6) A description of the timeframe from Department of State
authorization to Taiwan signature on the Letter of Offer and
Acceptance of articles, services, and training described in
paragraph (1) and information on delays in concluding a
Letter of Offer and Acceptance.
(7) A description of timelines the Department of Defense
took to work with United States industry in entering into
contracts associated articles, services, and training
described in paragraph (1), including a description of the
average timeframes for Letters of Offer and Acceptance.
(8) A description of the timeliness of Department of
Defense components' reporting of deliveries articles,
services, and training described in paragraph (1).
(c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) may
include a classified annex.
(d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this
section, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress''
means--
(1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on
Foreign Relations of the Senate.
AMENDMENT NO. 76 OFFERED BY MR. GOOD OF VIRGINIA
At the appropriate place in subtitle A of title XVIII of
division A, insert the following:
SEC. 18___. REPORT ON CHINA BENEFITTING FROM UNITED STATES
TAXPAYER-FUNDED RESEARCH.
(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in
consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the
Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of State, and the
Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the
Committee on the Armed Services of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on the Armed Services of
the Senate a report on the extent to which China has
benefitted from United States taxpayer-funded research.
(b) Contents of Report.--The report under subsection (a)
shall include the following:
(1) The extent to which United States taxpayer-funded
research has benefitted China, including a list of entities
funded by the United States Government or a State government,
such as research institutions, laboratories, and institutions
of higher education, which have hired Chinese nationals or
allowed Chinese nationals to conduct research, including an
estimate of the number of nationals hired or involved in
research projects.
(2) A list of United States Government programs, grants,
and other forms of research funding in the fields of science,
technology, engineering, and math fields that have directly
or indirectly cooperated or affiliated with research
institutions in China or Chinese Communist Party entities.
(3) The extent to which China's funding of United States
taxpayer-funded research institutions has benefitted China.
(4) How the Government of China and the Chinese Communist
Party have used United States taxpayer-funded research,
including as part of China's efforts to support ``civil-
military fusion'' and human rights abuses.
Definition.--In this section, the term ``United States
taxpayer-funded research'' means research--
(1) funded by a grant from the Federal Government or a
State government; or
(2) conducted by an institution that receives funding from
the Federal Government or a State government.
[[Page H3594]]
amendment No. 77 Offered by MR. GRAVES OF MISSOURI
Page 1190, line 8, strike ``include at least one
representative from each of'' and insert ``consist of''.
Page 1190, strike lines 12 through 16 and insert the
following:
(2) the Superintendent of the United States Merchant Marine
Academy;
(3) the Commandant of the Coast Guard;
(4) the Commander of the Military Sealift Command;
(5) the Secretary of the Navy; and
(6) at least one representative from each of--
Page 1190, beginning on line 17, redesignate paragraphs (6)
through (14) as subparagraphs (A) through (I) of paragraph
(6), respectively.
Amendment No. 78 Offered by Mr. Graves of Missouri
At the appropriate place in title XVIII, insert the
following:
SEC. 18__. AUTHORITY FOR REMEMBRANCE OF CONGRESSMAN DON YOUNG
WITH A MEMORIAL MARKER OR NICHE COVER AND
CEREMONY IN ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY.
Notwithstanding section 2409 of title 38, United States
Code, the memory of Congressman Don Young shall be honored
with a memorial marker or niche cover and ceremony in
Arlington National Cemetery, Virginia.
Amendment No. 79 Offered by Mr. Peters of California
At the end of subtitle C of title I, insert the following:
SEC. 1__. LIMITATION ON USE OF GOVERNMENT-OPERATED DRYDOCKS.
The Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that no Government-
operated drydock is eligible to compete for the award of a
contract for private sector non-nuclear surface ship
maintenance unless the Secretary determines, in accordance
with section 2466 of title 10, United States Code, that there
is not sufficient private sector dock competition.
Amendment No. 80 Offered by Ms. Tenney of New York
At the appropriate place in subtitle B of title XVIII:
SEC. __. REPORT ON EFFORTS TO DISSUADE ALLIES FROM PURCHASING
WEAPONS FROM THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall submit to
the appropriate congressional committees a report that
includes--
(1) a detailed description of efforts to dissuade allies
from purchasing weapons from the Russian Federation and the
People's Republic of China;
(2) a list of allies that purchase at least 20 percent of
their weaponry by monetary value from the Russian Federation
or the People's Republic of China;
(3) an evaluation of the security and political concerns
with allies purchasing weaponry from the Russian Federation
or the People's Republic of China; and
(4) an evaluation of the impact that the Russia-Ukraine War
has on allies purchasing weaponry from the Russia Federation.
(b) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall
be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a
classified annex.
(c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this
section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees''
means--
(1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on
Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 583, the gentleman
from Alabama (Mr. Rogers) and the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Smith)
each will control 15 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chair, I yield 30 seconds to the gentleman
from Iowa (Mr. Nunn), my friend and colleague.
Mr. NUNN of Iowa. Mr. Chairman, as a nearly 20-year combat veteran
and head of counterintelligence for cybersecurity, I know firsthand the
millions of threats that are leveraged against our country on a daily
basis.
As we look to strengthen our security with this bill offered by the
chair and the amendments going forward, I thank those who have worked
so diligently on our joint effort to create a National Digital Reserve
Corps to buttress our country against this threat.
Additionally, I will speak about another win for our military,
military parents. As both an Air Force officer, Reservist, and National
Guard member, we have worked on bipartisan legislation, the Reserve
Component Parental Leave Parity Act, that I helped lead with
Representative Jeff Jackson from North Carolina.
Our servicemen and -women deserve time with their new children, and
this policy will expand parental leave for drilling Reserve and
National Guard members to match the leave policies of their Active-Duty
members.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. ROGERS. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentleman from Iowa.
Mr. NUNN of Iowa. Mr. Chair, this is a big, bipartisan win to improve
the lives of our members who are serving, including myself as a parent
of foster children.
Unfortunately, as a result of a backroom deal, we were not able to
serve those who needed help from suicide prevention. In my home State
of Iowa, we have almost four times the number of individuals who take
their life after coming back from combat.
We will not stop fighting for this, and what we can't include in this
amendment we will move forward with the chairman to make sure we are
able to protect those who have served overseas and take their own life
when coming back.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Stanton).
Mr. STANTON. Mr. Chairman, moving the National Defense Authorization
Act forward has almost always been a bipartisan effort. This very bill,
as originally drafted, passed out of committee with near unanimous
votes from both Democrats and Republicans, 59-1.
That is why it is unconscionable that extremist politicians are
willing to jeopardize our military readiness and our national security
to push their unpopular partisan agenda.
In the dead of night, extreme lawmakers tacked on divisive, dangerous
amendments, including one that would prevent servicewomen from
accessing critical abortion care.
More than 400,000 women serve in Active Duty and in the Reserves. At
great personal sacrifice, these servicewomen have sworn an oath to
defend the United States and to live, train, and work at assigned duty
stations often far from home.
Almost immediately after Roe was overturned last summer, States
around the country began enacting draconian abortion bans and
restrictions. Today, nearly half of the servicewomen no longer have
access to abortion care, and many live hundreds of miles from the
nearest provider.
Access to abortion should not depend on where someone lives or where
they are stationed.
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin rightly noted that the Dobbs decision
would ``interfere with the U.S. military's ability to recruit, retain,
and maintain the readiness of a highly qualified force,'' and announced
earlier this year that the DOD would cover travel and lodging expenses
for servicewomen and military family members forced to travel for
healthcare.
My colleagues on the other side of the aisle would see that this
policy is overturned.
Mr. Chair, I have voted for the NDAA every year that I have served in
Congress, but I cannot in good conscience vote for this legislation in
its current form. We must provide for our national defense.
This bill will egregiously harm nearly one-fifth of this country's
fighting force. I will not turn my back on our servicewomen and
military families.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from California (Mr.  Mike Garcia), my friend.
Mr. MIKE GARCIA of California. Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of
this strong NDAA. It prioritizes the true mission of our U.S. military,
and that is to deter and to win wars. That is it. It is pretty simple.
More specifically, it prioritizes America's greatest national
security asset, our brave men and women in uniform who serve on a daily
basis. I thank Chairman Rogers for his support of my amendment within
this en bloc that will secure the highest pay raise in history for
nearly 1 million of our junior enlisted troops, paid for by the
appropriations bill.
This takes the starting salary for an E-1 in the military from about
$22,000 a year to $31,200 a year. It gets them above the poverty line
and off of food stamps. These brave men and women are willing to make
the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our freedom, and it is
unacceptable that they were making less than fast-food workers.
[[Page H3595]]
Mr. Chair, I couldn't be more proud of this historic victory, and I
couldn't be more eager to continue fighting for those who fight so hard
to give us our security blanket.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman
from Wisconsin (Mr. Van Orden), an outstanding freshman.
Mr. VAN ORDEN. Mr. Chairman, today I rise in opposition of amendment
No. 3 in the en bloc.
I have tremendous respect for Chairmen Green and Rogers, and I also
view the Chinese Communist Party as a threat to world peace.
I believe the unintended consequences of this amendment will have a
greater negative financial impact on our junior enlisted servicemen who
shop at our base exchanges than on the Chinese Communist Party.
Our junior enlisted currently struggle financially, and
implementation of this amendment will unintentionally raise the cost of
everyday goods and further exacerbate this strain.
Mr. Chair, for this reason alone, I urge my colleagues to oppose this
amendment.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. Jackson), my friend.
Mr. JACKSON of Texas. Mr. Chairman, I will start by saying that
despite the objections of many of the folks on the other side of the
aisle regarding this National Defense Authorization Act, which I
consider to be an outstanding bill that I am aggressively and
enthusiastically supporting, and despite the objections on the other
side of the aisle, most of the controversial amendments in this
amendment do nothing but return us to the initial and the long-time
combat readiness attitude that the military has always had and focuses
all of our efforts on that particular goal.
Mr. Chair, I rise in support of this en bloc amendment. This en bloc
includes an amendment of mine which will prohibit cadets or midshipmen
from being punished for not receiving the COVID vaccine.
An adverse action documented in a member's service record can have a
devastating impact, potentially ending a rising military career before
it even has an opportunity to begin.
Last year, here on the floor of the House, Ranking Member Smith told
us that another vaccine mandate could be implemented in the future if
the Biden administration decided to do so.
I refuse to sit on the sidelines and let the Biden administration's
politically motivated efforts to appease the radical left cost young
men and women their futures.
Mr. Chair, I strongly urge support of the overall NDAA.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from New York (Mr. Molinaro), my friend.
Mr. MOLINARO. Mr. Chairman, I rise both in appreciation and support
of my amendment included in the en bloc, which will require a study to
identify potential vulnerabilities in U.S. military systems and
infrastructure that could be exploited by adversarial AI applications
used by China, Russia, and other adversaries.
Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman for his leadership in this House and
for supporting a number of amendments that were included and adopted
yesterday.
These amendments will support military families and their children
with intellectual and developmental disabilities, ensure the DOD
guarantees full access and coverage to life-saving opioid overdose
reversal drugs, and requires our Nation's biodefense strategy, along
with helping the Army meet its goals to modernize aircraft and more.
Mr. Chair, I extend my appreciation.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chair, we have no further speakers if the
gentleman would like to close, and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I yield myself 2 minutes.
Mr. Chair, I will have remarks in a moment while, regrettably, I am
not supporting this particular bill. That doesn't change how much
respect I have for the process and for all the people who participated
in that process. I want to make sure we understand that.
One of the things I always say, I believe in democracy more than I
believe in my own opinion, which means that the process is important
and the way we put that process together and that we move through it.
In particular, I definitely thank the staff, certainly our staff on
the House Armed Services Committee that has done an outstanding job,
the Rules Committee staff, as well, but also the floor staff and the
parliamentarians and the folks who have to put the amendments together
and put the legislation together.
Throughout this process from the very start, when the original bill
was introduced, to all of the amendments, we have to run through these
numbers, it is in the thousands, basically, of amendments and ideas
that are submitted.
From the moment we put together the initial bill, we amend it in
committee, they deal with Rules, they amend it on the floor--we are
talking literally thousands of different pieces of legislation and
ideas that have to be brought together. Members don't do any of that.
We spout out ideas, and a whole bunch of staff work really hard to
get that done. I thank them very, very much for all of that work to
make this process go forward.
Mr. Chair, it is a good, robust bipartisan approach. We have the
amendments, we have the debates, and we resolve it. One thing I will
make clear, I am not thrilled with the outcome of the Rules Committee,
but that is the nature of being in the minority.
When you are in the majority, the Rules Committee does what the Rules
Committee does, and the minority complains about it. That is the way
this place works. That is fine. I might have done it differently in
terms of trying to figure out how to pass the bill.
At the end of the day, I don't have any process objection here. The
amendments were put on the floor, and they passed. I am not concerned
about that. I am concerned about the outcome, and I will explain that
later.
Mr. Chair, I will take a moment to really make it clear how much I
thank all the people who put this process together, in particular, I
thank Chairman Rogers for his work.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I yield myself an additional 30
seconds.
Mr. Chair, it is not as easy as it looks. Let me just sum that up.
There are a whole lot of things you have to manage, including the
minority part. Chairman Rogers has done an outstanding job of doing
that in his first year as chair, and I appreciate that and I respect
that. I thank everybody for the process they put together.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
{time}  1000
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chair, I am prepared to close, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms. Houlahan), who is a member of the
committee.
Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Chair, later today, I will offer the motion to
recommit on this bill.
I stand with my colleagues who have stood shoulder to shoulder in
support of our brave servicemembers in an effort to put together this
bill for the last nearly 1 year. I stand with the spirit of those who
are currently serving in uniform who are sick and tired of this
legislative body politicizing their lives, their livelihoods, and their
bodily autonomy.
I rise today in honor of my grandfather and my father, who served
full, distinguished careers in the military, and my mom and my
grandmother, who served as military spouses, each for over 30 years.
I rise today as someone who was born and grew up on a military base
and moved across this Nation and to other countries. I rise as someone
who raised my own hand and my own child when
[[Page H3596]]
the time came. I rise for my cousins who serve today.
I don't need my colleagues to tell me what it is like to be a mom in
uniform because I lived that experience, or a child in the military. I
lived that, too.
Here I am today, standing up on behalf of all servicewomen and
military families who are willing to risk their lives for our freedoms,
yet we are not willing to protect theirs.
What I have seen on the floor over the past 2 days has really
saddened me: targeting LGBTQ families like my own, targeting libraries,
targeting the reproductive freedoms of servicewomen and military
families stationed in States that do not respect their own bodily
autonomy.
Chair, we even saw a colleague refer to our Black servicemembers as
``colored people.''
To my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, let me make a few
things clear. We agree there are threats around the world like China
that we should be spending our time and efforts on. We agree the
historic recruitment challenges we face are a risk to our national
security. We agree the brave men and women who serve in uniform should
not be used as political pawns.
So why did this Republican-led body decide to take a historically
bipartisan piece of legislation from the House Armed Services Committee
hostage by adding scores of extreme GOP culture war priorities to it,
including, least of all, a clear-as-day backdoor policy to a national
abortion ban?
Chair, I want the American people to know that Democrats support our
men and women in uniform. We proudly voted forward by 58-1 a bipartisan
piece of legislation to increase their pay, to improve their housing,
and to expand their access to childcare.
However, the GOP is putting that bipartisan progress in jeopardy, and
the toughest part is that they know it. I have a great deal of respect
for the handful of my colleagues who recognize the extreme turn that
this legislation has taken, and I thank them.
So, I look at them again, and I look to them again. We must do what
is right by our servicemembers. Put the political gamesmanship aside
and return this extreme bill back to committee where it can return it
to its bipartisan nature.
I will work tirelessly across the aisle to ensure that we give the
President, our Nation, and, in fact, our globe a bill that truly
provides for the collective defense of our American values.
It really saddens me to say that this bill does not do that. This
bill will hurt our recruitment and retention.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds
to the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania.
Ms. HOULAHAN. It makes it extremely difficult for a proud veteran
like myself and so many others to look at future leaders of America and
say that, yes, this military is a home for you.
I took the uniform nearly 30 years ago, and it is a travesty that
servicewomen today will have less freedoms than I did.
Chair, I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support
this MTR and send this extreme bill back to committee where we can
truly deliver for those in uniform.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chair, I continue to reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I yield myself the balance of my
time.
Mr. Chair, I thank the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania, who summed it
up reasonably well, but I really want to make sure people understand
why we are opposed to this bill.
We are opposed to this bill because it is our firm belief that this
will undermine our ability to meet the national security objectives of
this country.
I want to explain why. We can start with the issue of access to
reproductive healthcare for women.
Because of the Dobbs decision, there are many States now across this
country where you cannot get access to that care. The Department of
Defense, faced with that and having a large number of women and family
members of servicemembers in those States, set up a situation to allow
those women to get access to that reproductive care. This bill takes
that away.
Mr. Chair, if you are a woman concerned about your ability to get an
abortion, first of all, or concerned about if you are a servicemember
who has a family member who might be concerned about that, you are
going to be less likely to join the military.
I really do want to emphasize one point that came up during this. I
understand a lot of people oppose abortion. They want to ban it
outright, and that is why they feel this way. However, do understand
the negative impact that that will have on a lot of women's willingness
to join the military.
It goes beyond abortion, as we have sadly seen. The worst case of
this is a woman who miscarries midway through her pregnancy cannot get
treated for that. There was one particular case that was cited during
the debate of a woman who wound up in the emergency room fighting for
her life because of an infection because she could not get that care.
If you are a woman, Mr. Chair, or if you are a man who is
considering, ``What about my spouse, and what about my children?'' then
you will be less likely to join the military knowing that you have that
challenge. So, we are going to have fewer qualified people willing to
join the military because of what was passed. That will not make our
military stronger.
We have also now said, and the debate seems to imply, that trans
people don't exist so they are not welcome in the military either. Now,
I am not a doctor and, therefore, don't want to presume what treatment
someone should have who is in a transgender situation, but what this
bill says is: Nope, we are not even going to consider it.
Again, Mr. Chair, if you are a trans person, you are going to be less
likely to join the military, or, Mr. Chair, if you are someone who
thinks, ``What if I have a child who is a trans person?'' The military
is not going to accept them. So, now, Mr. Chair, you can take trans
people off the table. They are not going to join the military either.
Then, we have the most difficult aspect of this, and that is the
diversity, equity, and inclusion piece. This is a very widely
misunderstood thing, and I tried to explain it throughout the debate.
Believe it or not, we have a history of discrimination in this
country. We have a history of bigotry. You can go through slavery, Jim
Crow, the Ku Klux Klan, and a whole bunch of different things, Mr.
Chair. We also have a history of incredible discrimination against
women.
I cited this before, but as it came out during debate, women who join
the military, I think, have a very strong understanding that they are
going to have to work twice as hard, basically, to get the same
opportunities that a man gets in the military. That is sort of
understood.
Because of that historical discrimination, Mr. Chair, you also have
to wonder, if you are a person of color, whether you are going to get a
fair shake in the military.
Now, I will admit there are a lot of people who, even faced with
those odds, even knowing that they are going to have to work twice as
hard and face that discrimination, will join, but some will not. So,
again, there is another group of people who we have now taken off the
table.
I want to take a special moment to recognize, on that last point, the
willingness of people to join the military even if they are facing
discrimination.
Where I live in the Seattle-Bellevue area, we have a lot of Nisei
veterans and family of Nisei veterans, and it is a particularly
compelling story. These are Japanese Americans who fought and died, in
many cases, for our country during World War II while their family
members were unfairly incarcerated back home.
I know that there are people who will step up and take on that
challenge anyway, but there will be fewer of them.
Basically, Mr. Chair, you have this huge group of people now who are
going to be less likely to join the military because of what this bill
does.
I will slightly paraphrase a line from ``A Few Good Men.'' Basically,
all this bill does is weakens our country. It weakens our ability to
respect all the people who should be allowed not just to serve but to
serve with an equal chance of advancement. Whether you
[[Page H3597]]
are talking about women, whether you are talking about trans people,
whether you are talking about people of color, Mr. Chair, this bill
says that we are going to make it more difficult for you to get a fair
shake in the military.
I do understand the DEI argument, but let me just say two things
about that as I bring this to a close.
First of all, there were a lot of very disturbing arguments made. I
think the base renaming commission argument, even though technically it
really didn't matter, was the most disturbing of all as we, once again,
heard all these speeches about how we need to honor our history and
honor our heritage.
These are the exact same arguments that were made over 100 years ago
when this country went through a very concerted effort to make sure
that we could establish white supremacy as the law of the land. The
very same arguments that erected these monuments and named these bases
and gave us the Ku Klux Klan and Jim Crow were made on the floor of
this House.
It is shocking that those arguments were made. It is appalling that
those arguments carried the day and actually won on all of these
amendments and found themselves inserted in the bill. All of that is
very concerning.
I do understand that there is a different set of arguments and a very
respectable set of arguments that says that the way we are attempting
to address the historical discrimination of this country is
problematic, and that is primarily critical race theory.
There are certainly some in this country who have a view of this that
our country is nothing but racist and that basically we have heard--I
think  Mike Waltz actually read this out in committee, and it is very
accurate: There are some who believe that all White people are racist,
that if you are a White person, you are by definition an oppressor, and
you need to think about that.
I have seen that, and I have witnessed that, and it is wrong. In my
opinion, it is not the correct way to approach that. How should we
handle that? The way we have chosen to handle that is to get rid of
diversity, equity, and inclusion completely and totally, and that is
the problem.
Mr. Chair, if you wanted to say that we are not going to do that part
of it, fine. That is not what we did.
To the argument of, ``Well, gee, all that does is makes it fair. We
shouldn't consider race. We shouldn't consider any of these things in
determining excellence,'' the problem is that for 400 years we did, and
at the end of that, one particular group of people got all the
advantages.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr. Chair, I urge opposition to this bill,
but I do thank the people for the process that was put in place.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my
time.
Mr. Chair, I thank our bipartisan HASC staff for their tremendous
work. As I talked about yesterday, our committee staff has worked for
monthslong hours in a very bipartisan fashion to get us where we are
today.
I also thank everyone from the Office of the Legislative Counsel, the
Congressional Budget Office, the Parliamentarian's Office, the Clerk,
the floor staff, the Rules Committee, and the leadership on both sides
of the aisle.
I especially thank my friend, Ranking Member Smith, for his hard work
and assistance. As a longtime former chairman of this committee, he
gets the ebbs and flows of this process and has been a very helpful
partner in helping me lead this committee.
Mr. Chairman, this is a good bill.
I will address this to my Conference: There is absolutely no reason
why any Republican should vote against the bill. It will enhance the
congressional oversight of the DOD. It will improve the quality of life
for our servicemembers and their families. It will help build the
ready, capable, and lethal fighting force we need to deter the Chinese
Communist Party and other adversaries.
Mr. Chair, I urge all Members to support the bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered
by the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Rogers).
The en bloc amendments were agreed to.
Announcement by the Acting Chair
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings
will now resume on those amendments printed in House Report 118-142 on
which further proceedings were postponed, in the following order:
Amendment No. 63 by Mr. Banks of Indiana.
Amendment No. 64 by Mr. Roy of Texas.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes the time for any electronic vote
after the first vote in this series.
Amendment No. 63 Offered by Mr. Banks
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a
recorded vote on amendment No. 63, printed in House Report 118-142
offered by the gentleman from Indiana (Mr. Banks), on which further
proceedings were postponed and on which the ayes prevailed by voice
vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amendment.
Recorded Vote
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 218,
noes 210, not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 325]
AYES--218
Aderholt
Alford
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bean (FL)
Bentz
Bergman
Bice
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Boebert
Bost
Brecheen
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Burlison
Calvert
Cammack
Carey
Carl
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chavez-DeRemer
Ciscomani
Cline
Cloud
Clyde
Cole
Collins
Comer
Crane
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Curtis
D'Esposito
Davidson
De La Cruz
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Donalds
Duarte
Duncan
Dunn (FL)
Edwards
Ellzey
Emmer
Estes
Ezell
Fallon
Feenstra
Ferguson
Finstad
Fischbach
Fitzgerald
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flood
Foxx
Franklin, C. Scott
Fry
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garcia, Mike
Gimenez
Gonzales, Tony
Good (VA)
Gooden (TX)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Greene (GA)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hageman
Harris
Harshbarger
Hern
Higgins (LA)
Hill
Hinson
Houchin
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunt
Issa
Jackson (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kean (NJ)
Kelly (MS)
Kiggans (VA)
Kiley
Kim (CA)
Kustoff
LaHood
LaLota
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Langworthy
Latta
LaTurner
Lawler
Lee (FL)
Lesko
Letlow
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luna
Luttrell
Mace
Malliotakis
Mann
Massie
Mast
McCaul
McClain
McClintock
McCormick
McHenry
Meuser
Miller (IL)
Miller (OH)
Miller (WV)
Miller-Meeks
Mills
Molinaro
Moolenaar
Mooney
Moore (AL)
Moore (UT)
Moran
Moylan
Murphy
Nehls
Newhouse
Norman
Nunn (IA)
Obernolte
Ogles
Owens
Palmer
Pence
Perez
Perry
Pfluger
Posey
Reschenthaler
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose
Rosendale
Rouzer
Rutherford
Salazar
Santos
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Self
Sessions
Simpson
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spartz
Stauber
Steel
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Strong
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Tiffany
Timmons
Turner
Valadao
Van Drew
Van Duyne
Van Orden
Wagner
Walberg
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams (TX)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yakym
Zinke
NOES--210
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Auchincloss
Balint
Barragan
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle (PA)
Brown
Brownley
Budzinski
Bush
Caraveo
Carbajal
Cardenas
Carson
Carter (LA)
Cartwright
Casar
Case
Casten
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cherfilus-McCormick
Chu
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crockett
Crow
Davids (KS)
Davis (IL)
Davis (NC)
Dean (PA)
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Deluzio
DeSaulnier
Dingell
Doggett
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Fletcher
Foster
Foushee
Frankel, Lois
Frost
[[Page H3598]]
Garamendi
Garcia (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Garcia, Robert
Goldman (NY)
Gomez
Gonzalez, Vicente
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hoyle (OR)
Huffman
Ivey
Jackson (IL)
Jackson (NC)
Jackson Lee
Jacobs
James
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Kamlager-Dove
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim (NJ)
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster
Landsman
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lee (PA)
Leger Fernandez
Levin
Lieu
Lofgren
Lynch
Magaziner
Manning
Matsui
McBath
McClellan
McCollum
McGarvey
McGovern
Meeks
Menendez
Meng
Mfume
Moore (WI)
Morelle
Moskowitz
Moulton
Mrvan
Mullin
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Nickel
Norcross
Norton
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Peltola
Peters
Pettersen
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Quigley
Ramirez
Raskin
Ross
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Sablan
Salinas
Sanchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Scholten
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell
Sherman
Sherrill
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Sorensen
Soto
Spanberger
Stansbury
Stanton
Stevens
Strickland
Swalwell
Sykes
Takano
Thanedar
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tokuda
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres (NY)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Vasquez
Veasey
Velazquez
Wasserman Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Williams (GA)
Wilson (FL)
NOT VOTING--11
Bowman
Evans
Gallego
Garbarino
Golden (ME)
Gonzalez-Colon
Kelly (PA)
Radewagen
Roy
Smith (MO)
Williams (NY)
{time}  1034
Messrs. DeSAULNIER and LARSON of Connecticut changed their vote from
``aye'' to ``no.''
Mr. DAVIDSON changed his vote from ``no'' to ``aye.''
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
Stated against:
Mr. BOWMAN. Mr. Chair, had I been present, I would have voted ``no''
on rollcall No. 325.
Amendment No. 64 Offered by Mr. Roy
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished business is the demand for a
recorded vote on amendment No. 64, printed in House Report 118-142
offered by the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Roy), on which further
proceedings were postponed and on which the ayes prevailed by voice
vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amendment.
Recorded Vote
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 217,
noes 216, not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 326]
AYES--217
Aderholt
Alford
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bean (FL)
Bentz
Bergman
Bice
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Boebert
Bost
Brecheen
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Burlison
Calvert
Cammack
Carey
Carl
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Ciscomani
Cline
Cloud
Clyde
Cole
Collins
Comer
Crane
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
D'Esposito
Davidson
De La Cruz
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Donalds
Duarte
Duncan
Dunn (FL)
Edwards
Ellzey
Emmer
Estes
Ezell
Fallon
Feenstra
Ferguson
Finstad
Fischbach
Fitzgerald
Fleischmann
Flood
Foxx
Franklin, C. Scott
Fry
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garbarino
Garcia, Mike
Gimenez
Gonzales, Tony
Good (VA)
Gooden (TX)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Greene (GA)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hageman
Harris
Harshbarger
Hern
Higgins (LA)
Hill
Hinson
Houchin
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunt
Issa
Jackson (TX)
James
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kean (NJ)
Kelly (MS)
Kiggans (VA)
Kiley
Kim (CA)
Kustoff
LaHood
LaLota
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Langworthy
Latta
LaTurner
Lawler
Lee (FL)
Lesko
Letlow
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luna
Luttrell
Mace
Malliotakis
Mann
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClain
McClintock
McCormick
McHenry
Meuser
Miller (IL)
Miller (OH)
Miller (WV)
Miller-Meeks
Mills
Molinaro
Moolenaar
Mooney
Moore (AL)
Moore (UT)
Moran
Moylan
Murphy
Nehls
Newhouse
Norman
Obernolte
Ogles
Owens
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Pfluger
Posey
Reschenthaler
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose
Rosendale
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Salazar
Santos
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Self
Sessions
Simpson
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spartz
Stauber
Steel
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Strong
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Tiffany
Timmons
Turner
Valadao
Van Drew
Van Duyne
Van Orden
Wagner
Walberg
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams (TX)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yakym
Zinke
NOES--216
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Auchincloss
Balint
Barragan
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bowman
Boyle (PA)
Brown
Brownley
Budzinski
Bush
Caraveo
Carbajal
Cardenas
Carson
Carter (LA)
Cartwright
Casar
Case
Casten
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chavez-DeRemer
Cherfilus-McCormick
Chu
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crockett
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis (IL)
Davis (NC)
Dean (PA)
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Deluzio
DeSaulnier
Dingell
Doggett
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Foushee
Frankel, Lois
Frost
Garamendi
Garcia (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Garcia, Robert
Golden (ME)
Goldman (NY)
Gomez
Gonzalez, Vicente
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hoyle (OR)
Huffman
Ivey
Jackson (IL)
Jackson (NC)
Jackson Lee
Jacobs
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Kamlager-Dove
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim (NJ)
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster
Landsman
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lee (PA)
Leger Fernandez
Levin
Lieu
Lofgren
Lynch
Magaziner
Manning
Matsui
McBath
McClellan
McCollum
McGarvey
McGovern
Meeks
Menendez
Meng
Mfume
Moore (WI)
Morelle
Moskowitz
Moulton
Mrvan
Mullin
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Nickel
Norcross
Norton
Nunn (IA)
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Peltola
Perez
Peters
Pettersen
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Quigley
Ramirez
Raskin
Ross
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Sablan
Salinas
Sanchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Scholten
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell
Sherman
Sherrill
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Sorensen
Soto
Spanberger
Stansbury
Stanton
Stevens
Strickland
Swalwell
Sykes
Takano
Thanedar
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tokuda
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres (NY)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Vasquez
Veasey
Velazquez
Wasserman Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Williams (GA)
Wilson (FL)
NOT VOTING--7
Evans
Gallego
Gonzalez-Colon
Kelly (PA)
Radewagen
Smith (MO)
Williams (NY)
Announcement by the Acting Chair
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote). There is 1 minute remaining.
{time}  1039
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Curtis). There being no further amendments,
under the rule, the committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
Weber of Texas) having assumed the chair, Mr. Curtis, Acting Chair of
the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, reported
that that Committee, having had under consideration the bill (H.R.
2670) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2024 for military
activities of the Department of Defense and for military construction,
and for defense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other
purposes, and, pursuant to House Resolution 583, he reported the bill,
as amended by House Resolution 582 and by the House on July 13, 2023,
back to the House with
[[Page H3599]]
sundry further amendments adopted in the Committee of the Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under the rule, the previous question is
ordered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any amendment reported from the
Committee of the Whole? If not, the Chair will put them en gros.
The amendments were agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the engrossment and third
reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was
read the third time.
{time}  1045
Motion to Recommit
Ms. HOULAHAN. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to
recommit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Ms. Houlahan of Pennsylvania moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 2670 to the Committee on Armed Services.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XIX, the
previous question is ordered on the motion to recommit.
The question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and
nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on the motion to recommit will be followed by 5-minute
votes on:
Passage of the bill, if ordered; and
Agreeing to the Speaker's approval of the Journal, if ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 210,
nays 217, not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 327]
YEAS--210
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Auchincloss
Balint
Barragan
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bowman
Boyle (PA)
Brown
Brownley
Budzinski
Bush
Caraveo
Carbajal
Cardenas
Carson
Carter (LA)
Cartwright
Casar
Case
Casten
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cherfilus-McCormick
Chu
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crockett
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis (IL)
Davis (NC)
Dean (PA)
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Deluzio
DeSaulnier
Dingell
Doggett
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Fletcher
Foster
Foushee
Frankel, Lois
Frost
Garamendi
Garcia (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Garcia, Robert
Golden (ME)
Goldman (NY)
Gomez
Gonzalez, Vicente
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hoyle (OR)
Huffman
Ivey
Jackson (IL)
Jackson (NC)
Jackson Lee
Jacobs
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Kamlager-Dove
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim (NJ)
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster
Landsman
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lee (PA)
Leger Fernandez
Levin
Lieu
Lofgren
Lynch
Magaziner
Manning
Matsui
McBath
McClellan
McCollum
McGarvey
McGovern
Meeks
Menendez
Meng
Mfume
Moore (WI)
Morelle
Moskowitz
Moulton
Mrvan
Mullin
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Nickel
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Peltola
Perez
Peters
Pettersen
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Quigley
Ramirez
Raskin
Ross
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Salinas
Sanchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Scholten
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell
Sherman
Sherrill
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Sorensen
Soto
Spanberger
Stansbury
Stanton
Stevens
Strickland
Swalwell
Sykes
Takano
Thanedar
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tokuda
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres (NY)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Vasquez
Veasey
Velazquez
Wasserman Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Williams (GA)
Wilson (FL)
NAYS--217
Aderholt
Alford
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bean (FL)
Bentz
Bergman
Bice
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Boebert
Bost
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Burlison
Calvert
Cammack
Carey
Carl
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chavez-DeRemer
Ciscomani
Cline
Cloud
Clyde
Cole
Collins
Comer
Crane
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
D'Esposito
Davidson
De La Cruz
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Donalds
Duarte
Duncan
Dunn (FL)
Edwards
Ellzey
Emmer
Estes
Ezell
Fallon
Feenstra
Ferguson
Finstad
Fischbach
Fitzgerald
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flood
Foxx
Franklin, C. Scott
Fry
Fulcher
Gallagher
Garbarino
Garcia, Mike
Gimenez
Gonzales, Tony
Good (VA)
Gooden (TX)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Greene (GA)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hageman
Harris
Harshbarger
Hern
Higgins (LA)
Hill
Hinson
Houchin
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunt
Issa
Jackson (TX)
James
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kean (NJ)
Kelly (MS)
Kiggans (VA)
Kiley
Kim (CA)
Kustoff
LaHood
LaLota
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Langworthy
Latta
LaTurner
Lawler
Lee (FL)
Lesko
Letlow
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luna
Luttrell
Mace
Malliotakis
Mann
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClain
McClintock
McCormick
McHenry
Meuser
Miller (IL)
Miller (OH)
Miller (WV)
Miller-Meeks
Mills
Molinaro
Moolenaar
Mooney
Moore (AL)
Moore (UT)
Moran
Murphy
Nehls
Newhouse
Norman
Nunn (IA)
Obernolte
Ogles
Owens
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Pfluger
Posey
Reschenthaler
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose
Rosendale
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Salazar
Santos
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Self
Sessions
Simpson
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spartz
Stauber
Steel
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Strong
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Tiffany
Timmons
Turner
Valadao
Van Drew
Van Duyne
Van Orden
Wagner
Walberg
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams (TX)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yakym
Zinke
NOT VOTING--7
Brecheen
Evans
Gaetz
Gallego
Kelly (PA)
Smith (MO)
Williams (NY)
Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during the vote). There are 2 minutes
remaining.
{time}  1049
Mr. NUNN of Iowa changed his vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''
So the motion to recommit was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and
nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 219,
nays 210, not voting 5, as follows:
[Roll No. 328]
YEAS--219
Aderholt
Alford
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bean (FL)
Bentz
Bergman
Bice
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Boebert
Bost
Brecheen
Buchanan
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Burlison
Calvert
Cammack
Carey
Carl
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chavez-DeRemer
Ciscomani
Cline
Cloud
Clyde
Cole
Collins
Comer
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
D'Esposito
Davidson
Davis (NC)
De La Cruz
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Donalds
Duarte
Duncan
Dunn (FL)
Edwards
Ellzey
Emmer
Estes
Ezell
Fallon
Feenstra
Ferguson
Finstad
Fischbach
Fitzgerald
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flood
Foxx
Franklin, C. Scott
Fry
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garbarino
Garcia, Mike
Gimenez
Golden (ME)
Gonzales, Tony
Good (VA)
Gooden (TX)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Greene (GA)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hageman
Harris
Harshbarger
Hern
Higgins (LA)
Hill
Hinson
Houchin
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunt
Issa
Jackson (TX)
James
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kean (NJ)
Kelly (MS)
Kiggans (VA)
Kiley
Kim (CA)
Kustoff
[[Page H3600]]
LaHood
LaLota
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Langworthy
Latta
LaTurner
Lawler
Lee (FL)
Lesko
Letlow
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luna
Luttrell
Mace
Malliotakis
Mann
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClain
McClintock
McCormick
McHenry
Meuser
Miller (IL)
Miller (OH)
Miller (WV)
Miller-Meeks
Mills
Molinaro
Moolenaar
Mooney
Moore (AL)
Moore (UT)
Moran
Murphy
Nehls
Newhouse
Norman
Nunn (IA)
Obernolte
Ogles
Owens
Palmer
Pence
Perez
Perry
Pfluger
Posey
Reschenthaler
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose
Rosendale
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Salazar
Santos
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Self
Sessions
Simpson
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spartz
Stauber
Steel
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Strong
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Tiffany
Timmons
Turner
Valadao
Van Drew
Van Duyne
Van Orden
Vasquez
Wagner
Walberg
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams (TX)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yakym
Zinke
NAYS--210
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Auchincloss
Balint
Barragan
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bowman
Boyle (PA)
Brown
Brownley
Buck
Budzinski
Bush
Caraveo
Carbajal
Cardenas
Carson
Carter (LA)
Cartwright
Casar
Case
Casten
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cherfilus-McCormick
Chu
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crane
Crockett
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis (IL)
Dean (PA)
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Deluzio
DeSaulnier
Dingell
Doggett
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Fletcher
Foster
Foushee
Frankel, Lois
Frost
Garamendi
Garcia (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Garcia, Robert
Goldman (NY)
Gomez
Gonzalez, Vicente
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hoyle (OR)
Huffman
Ivey
Jackson (IL)
Jackson (NC)
Jackson Lee
Jacobs
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Kamlager-Dove
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim (NJ)
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster
Landsman
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lee (PA)
Leger Fernandez
Levin
Lieu
Lofgren
Lynch
Magaziner
Manning
Massie
Matsui
McBath
McClellan
McCollum
McGarvey
McGovern
Meeks
Menendez
Meng
Mfume
Moore (WI)
Morelle
Moskowitz
Moulton
Mrvan
Mullin
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Nickel
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Peltola
Peters
Pettersen
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Quigley
Ramirez
Raskin
Ross
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Salinas
Sanchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Scholten
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell
Sherman
Sherrill
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Sorensen
Soto
Spanberger
Stansbury
Stanton
Stevens
Strickland
Swalwell
Sykes
Takano
Thanedar
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tokuda
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres (NY)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Velazquez
Wasserman Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Williams (GA)
Wilson (FL)
NOT VOTING--5
Evans
Gallego
Kelly (PA)
Smith (MO)
Williams (NY)
Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during the vote). There are 2 minutes
remaining.
{time}  1055
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Mr. Speaker, had I been present, I would have
voted: ``yea'' on rollcall No. 325 (Banks Amendment #63 to H.R. 2670),
``yea'' on rollcall No. 326 (Roy Amendment #64 to H.R. 2670), ``nay''
on rollcall No. 327 (On the Motion to Recommit H.R. 2670), and ``yea''
on rollcall No. 328 (Final Passage of H.R. 2670).
____________________