[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 123 (Thursday, July 17, 2025)]
[House]
[Pages H3434-H3448]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
{time}  1250
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2026
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Gosar). Pursuant to House Resolution 580
and rule XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of
the bill, H.R. 4016.
Will the gentleman from North Carolina (Mr. Knott) kindly take the
chair.
{time}  1251
In the Committee of the Whole
Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for the further consideration of
the bill (H.R. 4016) making appropriations for the Department of
Defense for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2026, and for other
purposes, with Mr. Knott (Acting Chair) in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Committee of the Whole rose earlier today,
amendments en bloc No. 7, printed in part A of House Report 119-199,
offered by the gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert) had been
disposed of.
The Chair understands that amendment No. 48 will not be offered.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I rise as the designee of the gentlewoman
from Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro), and I move to strike the last word.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Minnesota is recognized for 5
minutes.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentlewoman from Ohio (Ms.
Kaptur), the distinguished ranking member of the Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development and Related Agencies.
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Chair, as the senior member on the Defense
Appropriations Subcommittee, I am deeply concerned and disappointed by
this legislation. This bill was written before the
[[Page H3435]]
Department of Defense submitted its budgetary needs for fiscal year
2026. Shamefully, the Department still has not provided Congress with a
complete request.
Thus, we have been brought to the floor to vote on an incomplete
bill, with no complete executive branch submission. This is not only
out of order, it is dangerous. Their procrastination yields uncertainty
for those who risk their lives in defense of this Nation.
America deserves better than uncertainty and a Defense Department
that is missing in action. Our troops can't train on promises. Our
allies can't fight with doubt. Our factories can't build American
strength without steady support. This bill fails liberty on all counts.
This bill misses crucial opportunities to strengthen America's
defense industrial base. Shipbuilding is backed up over 2 years. The
Great Lakes region, a cornerstone of American industrial manufacturing,
can play a major role in relieving that backup, but all of America is
put on hold due to the DOD's damaging budget delays.
We must prioritize investments that rebuild our domestic
manufacturing capabilities. Our military should never have to fight
with or depend on foreign sources for materials, critical minerals, or
key military components. Furthermore, by cutting all funding for
Ukraine, this bill dangerously ignores history at our own peril.
At our founding, Patrick Henry heroically proclaimed: ``Give me
liberty or give me death.'' He knew liberty's cost and our new Nation's
responsibility to uphold the values that our European forebears
bequeathed to us, ones that focused on representative government.
Thomas Jefferson knew America does not exist alone on the globe when
he wrote the words: ``Our laws, language, religion, politics, and
manners are so deeply laid in [European] foundations, that we shall
never cease to consider their history as a part of ours.''
More recently, on January 20, 1961, President John F. Kennedy, in his
inaugural address, recognized America's fierce dedication to liberty
when he said: ``We shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any
hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe to assure the survival and
the success of liberty.'' Then he warned that those who ride the back
of the tiger would end up inside it. He warned against that, and I hope
our Nation never goes down that lonely, dark path.
In a contemporary era on June 6, 1984, President Ronald Reagan stood
in Normandy, France, commemorating the day in history `` . . . when the
Allied armies joined in battle to reclaim this continent to liberty. .
. . Here the Allies stood and fought against tyranny in a giant
undertaking unparalleled in human history,'' and they did it together.
Mr. Chair, these quotes and sacrificial deeds of our forebears
explain why I rise to express my deep opposition to this bill's
irresponsible and shortsighted exclusion of any funding for the Ukraine
Security Assistance Initiative.
Throughout generations, the fundamental purpose of our Nation is to
guarantee liberty, to develop the kinds of relationships with our
democratic allies who stand with us against tyranny in any form, and to
fill our constitutional duty to provide for our Nation's common
defense. Common defense, the Constitution says.
Ensuring that the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative is properly
funded is essential to fulfilling our charge in defense of liberty on
our watch. If you haven't noticed Ukraine's struggle against the
spiderweb of tyranny fostered by Russia, China, Iran, Belarus, and
North Korea, it is real, and it is lethal.
Ukraine is in a historic fight now, not of her own choosing but for
her very survival. The poorest nation in Europe has fought back
mightily against the third largest military in the world after Putin's
murderous aggression that began in 2014.
Russia and its spiderweb of tyranny are a threat to liberty
everywhere, and Ukraine stands on the front line. If support for
Ukraine is withdrawn, Russia and its allies' assault on fundamental
freedoms will spread.
May no one in this generation become swallowed by the tiger. Those
who do not know and study history are doomed to repeat it.
Proper funding in this bill will boost our domestic defense
industrial base and affirm critical security and mineral alliances. It
supports our NATO partners. It is our privilege and, yes, duty to
support our allies and the brave people of Ukraine by appropriating
funds for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative.
My amendment would reinstate funding for the Ukraine Security
Assistance Initiative. I include in the Record the text of this
amendment.
Ms. Kaptur moves to recommit the bill H.R. 4016 to the
Committee on Appropriations with the following amendment:
At the appropriate place, insert the following:
Sec. __. Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under the
heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', for the
Defense Security Cooperation Agency, $300,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2027, shall be for the Ukraine
Security Assistance Initiative: Provided, That such funds
shall be available to the Secretary of Defense, with the
concurrence of the Secretary of State, to provide assistance,
including training; equipment; lethal assistance; logistics
support, supplies and services; salaries and stipends;
sustainment; and intelligence support to the military and
national security forces of Ukraine, and to other forces or
groups recognized by and under the authority of the
Government of Ukraine, including governmental entities within
Ukraine, engaged in resisting Russian aggression against
Ukraine for replacement of any weapons or articles provided
to the Government of Ukraine from the inventory of the United
States, and to recover or dispose of equipment procured using
funds made available in this section in this or prior Acts:
Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, not
less than 15 days prior to obligating funds made available in
this section, notify the congressional defense committees in
writing of the details of any such obligation: Provided
further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, not more than
60 days after such notification is made, inform such
committees if such funds have not been obligated and the
reasons therefor: Provided further, That the Secretary of
Defense shall consult with such committees in advance of the
provision of support provided to other forces or groups
recognized by and under the authority of the Government of
Ukraine: Provided further, That the United States may accept
equipment procured using funds made available in this section
in this or prior Acts transferred to the security forces of
Ukraine and returned by such forces to the United States:
Provided further, That equipment procured using funds made
available in this section in this or prior Acts, and not yet
transferred to the military or national security forces of
Ukraine or to other assisted entities, or returned by such
forces or other assisted entities to the United States, may
be treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon
written notification to the confessional defense committees:
Provided further, That any notification of funds made
available in this section shall specify an estimated timeline
for the delivery of defense articles and defense services
provided and shall identify if any equipment provided
requires enhanced end-use monitoring: Provided further, That
the Secretary of Defense may accept and retain contributions,
including money, personal property, and services, from
foreign governments and other entities, to carry out
assistance authorized for the Ukraine Security Assistance
Initiative in this section: Provided further, That the
Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense
committees in writing upon the receipt and upon the
obligation of any contribution, delineating the sources and
amounts of the funds received and the specific use of such
contributions: Provided further, That contributions of money
for the purposes provided herein from any foreign government
or other entity may be credited to this account, to remain
available until September 30, 2027, and used for such
purposes: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense
shall provide quarterly reports to the congressional defense
committees on the use and status of funds made available in
this section.
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 49,
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Amendment No. 57 Offered by Mr. Davidson
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 57
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Mr. DAVIDSON. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Strike section 8072.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentleman
from Ohio (Mr. Davidson) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Ohio.
Mr. DAVIDSON. Mr. Chair, I rise today to urge you and all of our
colleagues to support amendment No. 57 to the FY 2026 Department of
Defense appropriations bill.
[[Page H3436]]
This amendment strikes section 8072, a misguided rider that prohibits
the Navy from decommissioning littoral class combat ships.
The state of shipbuilding in the United States is nothing we would
hope to have. It is broken. This program maybe represents the pinnacle
of its brokenness. The ship doesn't accomplish what it was designed
for. I am encouraged when I speak to the chairman to know that it is
being put to use elsewhere, but it is not accomplishing the mission
that the Navy needs it for.
This provision ties the Navy's hands, forcing it to retain a deeply
flawed, costly, and ineffective class of ships that undermines our
national security, endangers our sailors, and wastes taxpayer dollars,
when we could move forward and build a ship that could accomplish the
mission.
President Trump is trying to take leadership over this and fix it,
and this ties his hands in a way that prevents options. We should leave
the Commander in Chief that decision.
The littoral combat ship program, costing over $30 billion, with each
ship priced at roughly $500 million, is a textbook example of Pentagon
inefficiency and contractor-driven bloat. Designed as a light, fast,
customizable vessel for near-shore warfare, the LCS has instead become
a symbol of our flawed procurement system.
{time}  1300
Mr. Chair, since its inception, the program has been plagued by
persistent propulsion system failures, weapons system integration
issues, hull problems, and rampant cost overruns.
A 2022 GAO report exposed the LCS's shortcomings. It has not
demonstrated the operational capabilities needed for its Navy mission.
Operational testing revealed significant challenges including the
ship's inability to defend itself, if attacked, and frequent failures
of mission-essential equipment on the ships. Deployments have been
marred by breakdowns and setbacks, rendering these ships unreliable at
best.
Mr. Chair, forcing the Navy to maintain a fleet of broken and
expensive ships is simply irresponsible. I think it is wrong to take
our Commander in Chief's hands. Our sailors deserve the best and most
reliable vessels to defend our Nation. Every dollar spent on the LCS is
a dollar diverted from building a stronger, more capable fleet.
Retaining these ships compromises readiness, squanders limited
resources, and puts lives at risk.
My amendment restores the Navy's authority to make strategic
decisions about its fleet and frees up resources for platforms that
actually enhance our national security.
Mr. Chair, I urge our colleagues to put the safety of our sailors and
the strength of our Navy first, and I ask my colleagues to vote ``yes''
on amendment 57.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the Davidson
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Meuser). The gentleman from Florida is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Today, our Nation is facing growing and real threats
from adversaries around the world. There is China, who continues to
rapidly grow their naval capacity at an alarming rate.
Iran, and its terrorist proxy groups, are threatening our allies and
disrupting free trade in the Red Sea.
Finally, South American cartels and drug smugglers are harming the
health and well-being of American citizens.
To face these growing threats, our Navy must rise to the occasion.
That means projecting strength throughout the world, while bolstering
our naval fleet. The LCS supports America's maritime security, sea
control, and deterrence, and, importantly, President Trump's agenda.
Just this past April, the USS Minneapolis-Saint Paul helped the U.S.
Coast Guard stop two alleged drug smuggling operations in the Caribbean
Sea. These ships assist in stopping narcotics, protecting the homeland
from illicit maritime drug trafficking, and securing our border.
Also, sea mines are actually responsible for more damage to U.S.
naval warships than any other weapon since World War II. Although it is
10 years after originally planned, the LCS platform is now providing
support for detecting, localizing, and neutralizing surface, near-
surface, moored, and bottom mines, helping our sailors stay safe around
the world.
The Navy has emphasized the need for a mixed naval fleet in the past,
consisting of both blue water and littoral combat ships that act as
fast-moving surface warfare vessels.
They continue to undergo upgrades to improve their lethality and
survivability in littoral waters so they can intercept drug and human
traffickers in the Caribbean and sweep for deadly mines. Most
importantly, they support U.S. naval efforts to end Houthi attacks on
commercial vessels in the Red Sea.
Our littoral combat ships have risen to the occasion to defend our
homeland. They have provided the necessary backup needed to protect
Americans at home and abroad.
Mr. Chair, if we want our military to continue to be the best in the
world, we cannot throw away a dime to save a nickel, especially when an
LCS vessel has only reached half of its life cycle. That is exactly
what this amendment does.
The decommissioning of the Navy's mixed fleet strategy, the LCS
vessels, is not the answer to our budget constraints. That is why I
stand in opposition to this amendment, and I ask my colleagues to vote
``no'' on the Davidson amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Davidson).
The amendment was rejected.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, as the designee of Ms. DeLauro, I move to
strike the last word.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentlewoman from New Mexico
(Ms. Stansbury).
Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Chair, I rise in the strongest opposition to this
defense spending bill because, once again, in the dark of night, the
GOP is passing bills, stripping the American people of their safety,
security, and support.
Last night at 3 a.m., the Senate shoved through a dangerous
rescissions package that guts foreign aid and public broadcasting.
Just this morning, the OMB Director suggested that he was just
getting started and didn't care whether or not the appropriations
process proceeded as our Founding Fathers and the Constitution imagined
it. He said it should be more partisan and that he would continue to
send rescissions packages like the one that they passed on the Senate
floor last night.
Let us be clear. The White House and an unelected bureaucrat are
trying to steal the power of the purse and to steal the power of the
people.
To my colleagues across the aisle, it is happening under their watch.
They are allowing it, enabling it, and giving away our constitutional
authority to a corrupt and chaotic administration, while trying to pass
fake bills like the one they have on this floor right now.
It will weaken our military readiness, abandon our allies, and strip
servicemembers of tools, training, and pay. It will undermine our
national security and abandon our troops and, yes, make the world less
safe.
Mr. Chair, I ask my colleagues across the aisle what they are doing.
How can they abandon the American people, the Constitution, our troops,
and our national security? It is time to stand up and grow a backbone
and vote ``no.''
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The Chair understands that amendment No. 58 will
not be offered.
The Chair understands that amendment No. 91 will not be offered.
Amendment No. 106 Offered by Mr. Gosar
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 106
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the
following:
Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may
be used for the Bioindustrial Manufacturing and Design
Ecosystem.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentleman
[[Page H3437]]
from Arizona (Mr. Gosar) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Arizona.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chair, my amendment No. 106 prohibits funds for the
DOD's bioindustrial manufacturing and design ecosystem, or BioMADE,
that funds lab-grown meat and protein products for the military from
feeding our men and women. How disgusting does that sound?
With a national debt of over $37 trillion, we can't afford to litter
sensible appropriation bills with wasteful spending.
An October 20 press release revealed BioMADE received $87 million in
Federal dollars under the Biden-Harris administration to produce lab-
grown meat to reduce carbon emissions on military bases. In March 2023,
BioMADE received an additional $450 million for the ManTech program.
Let me name a few of these projects that taxpayer dollars benefited.
One is called the ``Potential Benefit of Superbrewed Food's
Sustainable Postbiotic Protein on Warfighter Health.'' That one
produces lab-grown protein to shorten recovery time and improve the
concentration of servicemembers. Another is the ``Development of a
Sustainable, Low-Cost, Oil Process for Heart-Healthy DOD Rations,'' or
producing oil from microalgae for servicemembers. The ``Alternative
Protein Bars,'' is a lab-grown protein derived from a microbiological
agent similar to fungus.
Yummy.
{time}  1310
This is the food that built America? I think not.
Why do marines, sailors, guardsmen, and coasties need lab-grown meat
when the U.S. is full of delicious beef?
In fiscal year 2022 alone, the DOD awarded more than $369 million in
U.S. contracts for beef, $2.3 million of which was supplied by Phoenix,
Arizona.
Serving lab-grown meat over domestic beef or poultry rewards the
government-funded bioindustry and punishes the American cattle ranchers
who have a far smaller so-called carbon footprint than these big
corporations.
In 2024, Florida and Alabama banned lab-grown meat to protect farmers
and the cattle industry. This year, Mississippi, Montana, and Indiana
all followed suit.
Mr. Chair, I ask my colleagues to end this experiment on our Armed
Forces and support my amendment No. 106.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from California is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I think there may be a misunderstanding about
bioindustrial manufacturing, what it is and what it is not.
Bioindustrial manufacturing is not cultivating meat. However,
bioindustrial manufacturing is critical to energetics, such as
hypersonic fuels, critical chemicals for munitions and missiles, and
materials that literally increase the bang for the buck.
In the 1980s, the United States developed what we called CL-20, one
of the most powerful nonnuclear explosive chemicals ever created, but
we did not produce it at scale. China, unfortunately, found our
research and then scaled production. Now, the Chinese and Russian
arsenals have this very powerful ingredient.
We cannot allow China to be the world innovation leader in any field,
including bioindustrial manufacturing. We must continue tried and true
practices to adopt new technologies to fortify the American defense
industrial base.
American lethality is degraded without bioindustrial manufacturing.
Meanwhile, China and Russia benefit from American research. That has to
stop.
I am going to make a point here. BioMADE is a product. It is not a
manufacturer and does not manufacture lab-grown meat. BioMADE has never
funded research projects for lab-grown meat, has no current research
projects on lab-grown meat, and has no plans to fund projects on lab-
grown meat in the future.
I think we have a misunderstanding. We need this technology for our
energetics, which we use in our explosion devices very effectively.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman from Minnesota
(Ms. McCollum), who is the ranking member.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong opposition to this
amendment.
Let me be as clear as the chairman was. BioMADE has never funded any
efforts to develop or produce lab-grown meat for any purpose.
The Rules Committee should not have made this amendment in order
because it is just not germane to this bill.
Mr. Chair, let me tell you a little bit more about why it is
important that this amendment be defeated. By preventing funding for
the Bioindustrial Manufacturing and Design Ecosystem partnership, or
BioMADE, this amendment would hand a clear win to China.
The bipartisan National Security Commission on Emerging Biotechnology
recently completed its comprehensive review on biotechnology's impact
on national security. It concluded that China recognizes the immense
military and commercial potential of biotechnology and
biomanufacturing. They have made it a strategic priority and are
quickly starting to ascend to dominance.
To preserve our lead, we must take swift action to commercialize and
scale biomanufacturing here at home. These new technologies use the
power of biological cells and systems to perform complete chemistry--
complex issues.
They will enable us to onshore the production of critical chemicals,
including those used in munitions and high-performance aviation fuel,
as the chair mentioned; to develop new medical cures and treatments and
produce them on-demand near the front lines; to engineer biological
sensors that can detect pathogens and chemical threats on the
battlefield in real time; and to better extract critical minerals from
domestic mining deposits, reducing our dependence on China for rare
earth mining.
That, again, Mr. Chair, is why the National Security Commission on
Emerging Biotechnology report recommended that Congress support a
network of manufacturing facilities to scale up bioindustrial
production, including for defense needs.
BioMADE is a private-public partnership with nearly 300 members
across 37 States. Its mission is to partner with industry to enable
innovators to pilot new bioindustrial production in facilities across
the country that are linked to regional supply chains and agricultural
feedstocks and to train the future workers in this industry.
To be clear, we should be accelerating BioMADE's efforts, not
senselessly blocking them.
Last year, the Chinese Government invested over $4 billion in
biomanufacturing. We must take action now. We must not cede the lead to
China. We must win the biotech competition.
It is for that reason, Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle to join me in strongly opposing this amendment, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, may I inquire as to the time remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from California has 30 seconds
remaining.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chair, I am a little bit confused here, so I want to
ask the question: If we do good faith advertising to the American
people, because that is what our job is, tell me why we would actually
say the ``Potential Benefit of Superbrewed Food's Sustainable
Postbiotic Protein on Warfighter Health.'' That is obviously not what
the gentleman is talking about.
Then, we are talking about the ``Sustainable, Low-Cost, Oil Process
for Heart-Healthy DOD Rations.''
The other side's mantra is to do low carbon, getting rid of cows, but
now they wonder why the cattle industry has problems understanding why
they are doing this.
I accept what the gentleman said in regard to what BioMADE is, but
their truth in advertising fails. It fails dismally for the American
public because that is what it says here.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, our interests are energetics that go into
explosion devices. A big part of that is the BioMADE industry.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chair, I would love to see our money go to that
aspect, but not to the substitutes for meat.
[[Page H3438]]
Mr. CALVERT. I am not interested in the substitutes.
Mr. GOSAR. I am interested in the substitutes because I don't think
our warfighters should have to have that, and I would like people to
make that distinction, even if it costs the amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. Gosar).
The amendment was rejected.
The Acting CHAIR. The Chair understands that amendment No. 110 will
not be offered.
Amendment No. 111 Offered by Ms. Greene of Georgia
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 111
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Page 24, strike lines 8 through 14.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentlewoman
from Georgia (Ms. Greene) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Georgia.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, we support our great men and women
in our military, and we want to fund them to have the best equipment,
be afforded the best housing and best pay, and be treated the best in
the world.
I have an amendment today that would strike $118 million of funding
to overseas humanitarian disaster and civic aid programs of the
Department of Defense. These accounts fund programs for humanitarian
assistance in foreign countries, in other nations, for foreign
peoples--humanitarian mine action programs, foreign disaster relief for
foreign countries and foreign peoples--that the American public is
having to pay for.
I want to remind everybody that the American people are $37 trillion
in debt because of this institution and the way Congress has spent
their money. Think about our own national disasters and problems that
the American taxpayer faces here at home: Hurricane Helene, Hurricane
Milton, the Lahaina wildfires, the L.A. wildfires, the Texas flooding
where there are still over 100 missing people, the opioid epidemic, and
the fentanyl epidemic. All over the country, people are suffering.
{time}  1320
The American people voted to put America first. Mr. Chair, the
American people are still being put last.
Right now, the average health insurance premium for a family has
risen by 22 percent since 2018. Fentanyl still kills hundreds of people
every single day in America. More than 32,000 veterans, people who
served in our military, were homeless in 2024, and there were 6,407
suicides among American veterans in 2022. This is unacceptable.
In our Department of Defense appropriations funding, we should be
funding our military and not paying for funding for humanitarian aid
and crises in foreign countries. America simply cannot afford it
anymore.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Minnesota is recognized for 5
minutes.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, this program is designed to assure that our
allies and partners of the U.S. are supported in times of trouble. This
funding provides basic humanitarian aid and essential services to the
populations in need.
Let's talk about what it does for America's national security. This
program is an important tool for our combatant commanders who use this
to assist our allies, and it builds and cements our relationships.
Let me just give you a few examples. When we help our allies improve
their capacity to prepare and to respond to a crisis that will take
place, when we help implement the Humanitarian Mine Action Program,
this provides significant training, readiness, and enhanced benefits
even to our United States military. It contributes to alleviating the
worldwide problem of explosive remnants of war, which includes
landmines, unexploded ordnance, and small arms munitions. The program
allows our military to hone their critical wartime, civil-military,
language, cultural, and foreign internal defense skills.
Finally, through the Foreign Disaster Relief Program, a program
executed by our combatant commanders, we provide unique assistance
during natural and manmade disasters when interagency support is
requested.
DOD's ability to respond rapidly with extensive manpower,
transportation, and communication capabilities is critically important
in a time of crisis.
When we assist in filling in these capability gaps with our partners,
we help contain the crises and limit threats to regional stability by
providing relief aid within hours or even within days of a disaster.
Each of these programs are vital to the success of our combatant
commanders' relationships with their counterparts.
Cutting these funds would lessen the ability of our Armed Forces to
execute their missions. For these reasons, I oppose this amendment, and
I ask my colleagues to do the same.
Mr. Chair, I yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from California (Mr.
Calvert), the chairman of the committee.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, this amendment strikes all funding for the
Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid account. The funding is
used by DOD to assist during humanitarian disasters. The funding is
also used when specialized DOD experience is needed, such as detection
and clearance of landmines, unexploded ordnance, and other explosive
remnants of war. Even to this day, we are cleaning up World War II
remnants.
President Trump's budget request includes just over $100 million for
this account. I urge a ``no'' vote on this amendment.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, the American people are $37
trillion in debt. The Department of Defense's mission statement is to
deter war and ensure our Nation's security. That is their mission, and
that is exactly what their funding should be for.
I would like to ask: What foreign country showed up to help Americans
in our time of distress, in our humanitarian crises?
Which foreign country has come to clean up the hundreds of people who
die every single day on the streets from fentanyl?
Which foreign country showed up to defend our border as we were
invaded by millions of people for the past 4 years?
Which foreign country said: Here, America, here are millions and
billions of dollars to help you?
I am going to tell you, zero. Zero foreign countries showed up.
Here we are again. The American people are enslaved by $37 trillion
in debt, a debt we can never climb out of, but yet a debt that
continues to rise because here in Congress we go by this belief that we
have to fund every foreign country all around the world.
I say: Enough. The American people say: Enough.
Right now, Americans can't afford their rent. Young people cannot
afford to buy a home. Ask any 20-year-old or 30-year-old if they
believe they will ever be a homeowner. Their answer overwhelmingly is
no.
Americans can't afford their bills. They can't afford car insurance,
health insurance, and homeowner's insurance. Life does not look good in
the future.
Do you want to know why inflation is high?
Do you want to know why life continues to be unaffordable?
Because Congress cannot rein in its America last spending. It cannot
stop. It refuses to stop. It continues to say yes to the lobbyists for
the military industrial complex. It continues to say yes to every
lobbyist who walks in this institution, as Congressmen and
Congresswomen take donations into their campaign accounts.
Americans are the most generous in the world. Americans can donate
through charities to foreign countries to help foreign issues and
foreign people. But the American people should not be forced to write
the check, and
[[Page H3439]]
the Department of Defense should be able to focus on their mission to
deter war and ensure our Nation's security.
Mr. Chair, I ask my colleagues to support this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I would like to point out, again, that when
we do these projects together with our allied nations, it provides
significant training, access, and readiness enhancement benefits to the
United States military.
Mr. Chair, the question was asked on this House floor who came to our
aid, who stood for the United States.
I was here on September 11 serving in Washington, D.C., my first term
in Congress. NATO, the world, came to our aid. The world came and
helped us when we fought against the Taliban.
Mr. Chair, I thank those nations for standing with us, and I look
forward to working with them in the future in this type of partnership.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Georgia (Ms. Greene).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes
appeared to have it.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Georgia
will be postponed.
Amendment No. 112 Offered by Ms. Greene of Georgia
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 112
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Page 112, beginning line 23, strike section 8105.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentlewoman
from Georgia (Ms. Greene) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Georgia.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, as the House considers funding $831
billion to the Department of Defense for the funding of our great men
and women in our military to defend our Nation and our Nation's
interests, it is important to talk about the foreign aid that we are
funding to foreign countries.
The American people are $37 trillion in debt. The debt keeps rising,
and the interest on our debt is at $1 trillion now per year.
{time}  1330
My amendment would strike $500 million of military assistance to
Taiwan. This is an increase of $100 million from fiscal year 2025 and
will be used to provide a wide variety of assistance, including planes,
drones, missile defense, munitions, and more.
Mr. Chair, listen to this. As we are giving an extra $100 million,
making it $500 million in this Department of Defense appropriations
bill, the entire defense budget of Taiwan is less than $20 billion. Our
defense budget is $831 billion.
It wouldn't be so high if we weren't giving foreign aid. We have
given Taiwan over $2 billion in funding and munitions over the past 2
years. We have already given them $2 billion, but now we are giving
them another $500 million.
Increasing foreign aid to Taiwan will only increase their reliance on
the United States, and the United States should be serving the American
people and stop enslaving the American people in massive debt that
drives the inflation that is causing Americans to suffer and is causing
Americans to not be able to afford everyday life.
The United States is $37 trillion in debt, and we can hardly afford
our own massive military budget, let alone funding the significant
portions of other countries, of foreign countries and foreign nations
and foreign people that do not pay taxes here in America.
We have so many of our own domestic problems here at home and should
not be funding foreign countries, foreign aid, and, quite frankly,
instigating world war III with China.
Before we start worrying about Taiwan's borders or Ukraine's borders
or any other country's borders, we should be focusing on the continued
security of our own border and deporting the criminals and terrorists
and millions of people who invaded our country and are somewhere within
our country after they invaded our own borders.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from California is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I greatly admire the gentlewoman from
Georgia's passion for ensuring support for our overseas allies are a
wise use of taxpayers' dollars, but support for Taiwan must be part of
that equation.
Just yesterday, the Trump administration released a statement of
administration policy for the Defense appropriations bill. I was very
supportive of the bill we produced. One of the very few areas the
administration expressed any slight disagreement with our bill was
wanting more money for Taiwan. The administration has proposed
including $1 billion while this bill provides $500 million.
Mr. Chair, had OMB delivered budget materials to us in time for
consideration, we would have certainly taken a look at providing what
they requested, but that wasn't the case.
Supporting Taiwan in the face of unrelenting Chinese aggression is
absolutely in the vital interests of the United States. I point out
that Taiwan makes 90 percent of the world's chips and close to 100
percent of the highly needed chips for artificial intelligence and high
technical devices.
The funding will go a long way to making sure that Taiwan has the
resources necessary to help prevent a Chinese invasion. That is the
position of the Trump administration, and that is the position of this
bill.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ``no'' vote on the amendment, and I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Minnesota (Ms. McCollum).
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chairman, I am very, very proud of my vote to vote
against the President's big tax package, which added $3.4 trillion of
debt to our national debt over the next 10 years. Yet, right now, I am
rising in opposition to this amendment.
America's strength around the world does not only stem from our
military power but our network of alliances in Europe and the Pacific
that allow us to project power. Our allies support us, and we support
them.
That means, when our allies are threatened, the United States needs
to be with them. That is exactly what we are doing in Ukraine: helping
a sovereign nation defend its democracy from Russian aggression. A
similar situation could easily occur in the Pacific, where Taiwan is
threatened by the People's Republic of China.
China has a recent history of seizing territory. Look at the invasion
of Tibet in the 1950s. They have suppressed democracy in Hong Kong.
When the Chinese President speaks of reunification of Taiwan, we should
believe that he will attempt it. We cannot allow that to happen.
China may not stop with Taiwan. If Taiwan falls, other Pacific Island
nations, like the Philippines, would be threatened. America is not
alone in these concerns. Japan, South Korea, Australia, and New Zealand
are deeply concerned about the future of Taiwan's democracy. That is
why they are working with us to deter China and to prevent an invasion
of Taiwan from happening.
Mr. Chair, the $500 million from this bill will assist Taiwan in
preparing their military and increasing their readiness and their
deterrence capabilities.
Mr. Chair, I support the inclusion of the funds in this bill, and I
strongly oppose this amendment. I ask my colleagues to do the same.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, the best way to compete with
China is to have a strong American economy. We shouldn't be funding the
protection of a foreign country that is producing over 90 percent of
our chips when we should be producing those chips right here at home.
Currently, many of our rare earth minerals are tied up on Federal
lands, and this is a problem that is tying up the production of chips
here in America.
[[Page H3440]]
Mr. Chairman, America should be building our strength and resilience.
Instead of, let's say, an additional $500 million being given to Taiwan
for their defense budget, we should be investing that $500 million into
America's ability to produce chips so that we don't have to be the
world's police that defends all these other foreign countries from
China's aggression.
The best way to beat China is with a strong America, but decades of
America-last policies, where our manufacturing jobs were sent overseas
and sent to China, is what made China strong. America created that
problem, and America is continuing to create that problem by dependence
on foreign countries for our own manufacturing. This is why rural
America has been crumbling for decades because of the economic loss of
their own small towns.
In America today, the cost of college tuition has increased by over
180 percent. That means it is unaffordable for many students, and they
are laden with student loan debt.
According to American Compass, in 1985, 40 weeks of a typical
worker's income could provide the middle-class essentials for a family
of four. Yet, today, this requires over 62 weeks of income, exceeding
the 52 weeks in a year.
Life is unaffordable for Americans, Mr. Chairman. We are $37 trillion
in debt. I urge my colleagues to vote for my amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Georgia (Ms. Greene).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes
appeared to have it.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Georgia
will be postponed.
Amendment No. 113 Offered by Ms. Greene of Georgia
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 113
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Page 42, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $15,000,000)''.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentlewoman
from Georgia (Ms. Greene) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Georgia.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, as we are debating today the
$831 billion Defense appropriations bill, it is important to talk about
the foreign aid that is in this bill and why it must be stopped. The
American people are $37 trillion in debt, and this institution is to
blame for it.
Mr. Chairman, it is Congress and the men and women who serve in
Congress who can never say ``no'' to every single lobbyist and every
single foreign country that walks into their office.
My amendment today would strike the funding for HIV prevention
education activities in foreign countries. This bill provides at least
$15 million for HIV prevention educational activities undertaken in
connection with the United States military training exercises and
humanitarian assistance activities conducted primarily in African
nations.
My amendment would strike this provision to ensure that taxpayer
dollars are not being wasted by teaching African soldiers about how to
have safe sex. This is an issue that should be resolved by now.
{time}  1340
The U.S. already spends a massive amount of money on HIV-AIDS
primarily through PEPFAR, the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS
Relief. To date, U.S. funding for PEPFAR has totaled over $120 billion.
That is $120 billion that the American people do not have and never
helped them solve any of their problems.
This has grown from $1.9 billion in fiscal year 2024 to $6.5 billion
in fiscal year 2025. Additionally, the National Security Department of
State and related programs appropriations bill released this week would
provide $5.8 billion to prevent and treat HIV-AIDS globally. When the
American people are $37 trillion in debt, their credit cards are maxed
out.
Young people in America have no hope for the future. Why are we
continually paying for HIV prevention activities in education in Africa
and other foreign countries? How does this provide for the defense of
our Nation? It doesn't.
Again, the American people are some of the most generous people in
the world. They donate to charities, causes, and all types of
organizations and foundations to help people. This should be a private
donation out of the generousness of their heart. It shouldn't be part
of our Defense appropriations bill that is already $831 billion.
When do we ever look at the balance sheet? When do the American
people's empty pockets ever matter to Congress, Mr. Chair?
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Minnesota is recognized for 5
minutes.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, the Department of Defense works with partner
militaries around the world to advance regional stability and mutual
security. These foreign military forces must be healthy and functional
to effectively engage with our forces and support these missions.
The HIV-AIDS epidemic has a devastating impact on many countries,
including on their militaries. It reduces readiness, unit deployments
become limited, and it saps the morale and capabilities of the infected
individuals and their communities.
DOD's HIV-AIDS prevention program pairs health and security
assistance to provide care and treatment in concert with military
training, exercises, and humanitarian activities.
This amendment would eliminate a successful military-to-military HIV-
AIDS prevention, care, and treatment efforts in more than 55 countries.
In doing so, it would increase the burdens and risks for American
forces and weaken global security by reducing the capacity of our
partner forces.
For these reasons, I will urge defeat of this amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert).
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, the amendment strikes $15 million for HIV
prevention education activities undertaken in connection with the
United States military training exercises and the humanitarian
assistance activities conducted primarily in African nations.
This funding supports the Defense Health Program, and those funds are
credited with scaling back the AIDS epidemic in Africa. This program
has long enjoyed support across party lines.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, may I inquire as to the time
remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Georgia has 2 minutes
remaining.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, while the Defense appropriations
bill funds $15 million for HIV prevention educational activities
undertaken in connection with the United States military training
exercises and humanitarian assistance activities conducted primarily in
Africa, I will talk about something that is plaguing Black Americans
today.
According to the Department of Education, 85 percent of Black
students lack proficiency in mathematics and reading skills.
That is appalling. That is a failure of our education system to Black
Americans, but in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, we are
supposed to send $15 million to teach soldiers how to avoid getting
AIDS?
Isn't this already known?
This has been going on for years and years and years, and we are
having to pay for that. Why are the American people that are $37
trillion in debt having to pay for people in Africa, soldiers in
Africa, to tell them how to avoid getting AIDS when our own Black
students here in America, 85 percent of them, lack proficiency in
mathematics and reading skills, which is extremely
[[Page H3441]]
important for success in their adult life.
Furthermore, there are entire high schools in our cities where not a
single student scores proficiently on a standardized test, but the most
important thing we can do is send $15 million to teach adult soldiers
in Africa how to not get AIDS? This is insanity, and this is the exact
America last spending that the American people are fed up with.
Mr. Chair, at what point does sanity enter the Halls of Congress
because it hasn't been here for a very long time.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to vote for this amendment to at
least save the American people $15 million or help students in America.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I agree with the gentlewoman from Georgia.
We need to do more for our children here at home. I fail to see how
cutting the Department of Education, canceling grants, some of them in
my district for special education teachers, ending the AmeriCorps help
that our schools were getting with many students having someone to sit
with them and help them with extra one-on-one for reading and for math
to help them succeed, not to mention the cuts to SNAP.
I used to teach. The last thing you want is a child with a hungry
stomach in your classroom because they are more focused on what they
didn't eat than learning.
Mr. Chair, there is more we can do, and that is another reason why I
am so glad I didn't vote for the President's tax cut.
I just reiterate, again, that this mil-to-mil training builds
resilience, support, and respect between the militaries. It keeps their
militaries healthy, and I continue to oppose this amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Georgia (Ms. Greene).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes
appeared to have it.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Georgia
will be postponed.
Amendment No. 114 Offered by Ms. Greene of Georgia
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 114
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Strike section 8067 (page 92, beginning on line 12 through
page 93, line 13).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentlewoman
from Georgia (Ms. Greene) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Georgia.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, as the House considers the Defense
appropriations bill today that costs the American people $831 billion,
it is important to talk about the fact that this is the funding for our
great men and women serving in our military and our Nation's defense.
The Department of Defense's mission statement is to deter war and
ensure our Nation's security. That is worthy of the American people's
hard-earned tax dollars. However, the American people are $37 trillion
in debt, so this is money that is being spent that they already don't
have.
My amendment would strike $500 million in funding for nuclear-armed
Israel's missile defense system, and it is important to phrase it that
way.
Israel is a nuclear-armed nation, which is very capable of defending
themselves, and they have been proving that so as we have watched on
the world stage.
The U.S. already provides Israel with $3.8 billion annually in
foreign aid. That is $3.8 billion. That is a lot of money.
Additionally, the April 2024 security supplemental included $8.7
billion for Israel. That is nuclear-armed Israel. During the recent 12-
day war, the U.S. used 15 to 20 percent of our Terminal High Altitude
Area Defense missile stockpiles defending nuclear-armed Israel, which
cost us over $800 million.
{time}  1350
The $500 million provided in this bill will fund Israel's--that is,
nuclear-armed Israel's--missile defense system--the Iron Dome, David's
Sling, Arrow system--yet Israel is a nuclear-armed nation. That is a
pretty big deterrent for any of their enemies. Any nation that has a
nuclear bomb has the greatest threat against their enemies.
U.S. aid typically accounts for 15 to 20 percent of Israel's defense
budget, even though Israel--nuclear-armed Israel--has universal
healthcare for their citizens and subsidized college for their
citizens. They are able to provide that. However, here in America, we
are $37 trillion in debt.
My amendment to strike $500 million in foreign aid will ensure an
America First Department of Defense. That is exactly what we need, and
we haven't had it for a very long time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from California is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, the gentlewoman's amendment would strike $500
million in funding for the vital Israeli missile defense capability.
Over the past 2 years, Israel repeatedly has been attacked by Iran
and its terrorist proxy groups, Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Houthis. Each
time, these groups have vowed to destroy the State of Israel.
The United States has affirmed our resolve to stand with Israel by
helping defend against the recent missile raids launched by Iran
against Israel's civilian population.
The success of Israel's robust missile defense capability is, in
part, because these funds were provided in this bill and prior bills.
Furthermore, this funding benefits our own missile defense industrial
base, as it provides for coproduction activities and shared technology
development. It is certainly to our mutual advantage.
With that, I urge a ``no'' vote on the amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman from Minnesota
(Ms. McCollum), the ranking member.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to this amendment.
To be clear, I have disagreements with Prime Minister Netanyahu's
government.
Israel totally had the right to defend itself after the heinous
attacks on October 7, and all the hostages should come home.
The Israeli military campaign has been an absolute tragedy for the
people of Palestine. The people of Gaza are in desperate need of more
humanitarian relief, which I strongly support.
The funding in this bill does not support offensive weapons for
Israel. That is funding in a separate appropriations bill. This bill
provides for defensive measures only, like Iron Dome, which I support.
Safety is what everyone in the region deserves. Israeli children
deserve to go to bed at night knowing that missiles from Yemen, Iran,
the Houthis, or anywhere else in the region will not rain down on them.
Palestinian children deserve to go to bed at night knowing that their
schools, hospitals, and homes will not be bombed. That is what we all
need to work toward: Peace.
Mr. Chair, I urge the defeat of this amendment.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, Israel is a nuclear-armed nation,
and they are less than $400 billion in debt. They are quite a thriving
and successful nation. Their economy is strong. They are doing a great
job for their people.
However, the United States, the American citizens, are $37 trillion
in debt, yet we are continuing to send hundreds of billions of dollars
in foreign aid constantly to foreign countries. This has to end at some
point.
Our problems here at home for Americans and the American taxpayer who
are paying for all of this have gotten too large.
I also want to point out that Israel bombed a Catholic church in
Gaza, and that an entire population is being wiped out as they continue
their aggressive war in Gaza.
[[Page H3442]]
We are heartfelt about the October 7 tragedy when innocent people
were killed. However, at some point, the United States needs to
recognize that Israel is a strong country. They are nuclear-armed, and
they are capable of defeating their own enemies.
It is right to stop funding this as we give them $3.8 billion every
single year anyway.
Mr. Chair, I ask for support for my amendment, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. Fine).
Mr. FINE. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to this America last
amendment and reject the premise of the arguments that are being made.
There are 600,000 Americans who live in Israel, and one rocket has
been fired against every 23 of them, 26,000 rockets since October 7.
Forty-three Americans were killed on October 7, and 12 were taken
hostage.
More importantly, the research that this funds is the premise behind
the Golden Dome. When we support research and development for the Iron
Dome, we are creating the capability for the United States to defend
itself as well.
I have news. We have a nuclear weapon, too. That doesn't get you off
the hook with those who are out to get you.
When we oppose this amendment, when we vote it down, we are not only
standing with Israel. We are standing with the best interests of the
United States.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Georgia (Ms. Greene).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes
appeared to have it.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Georgia
will be postponed.
Amendment No. 115 Offered by Ms. Greene of Georgia
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 115
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Strike section 8117 (page 118, lines 20 through 24).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentlewoman
from Georgia (Ms. Greene) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Georgia.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, as we are considering the Defense
appropriations bill that costs the American people $831 billion, it is
important to consider the amount of foreign funding that we are
spending every single year. The American people are $37 trillion in
debt. Life in America has become unaffordable, especially for our
youngest generation.
This amendment would strike $500 million in military assistance to
Jordan. This bill provides up to $500 million in military assistance to
support the Armed Forces of Jordan. However, our Department of Defense
mission statement is to deter war and ensure our Nation's security.
My amendment would strike this provision to ensure that our Defense
appropriations bill funds only our military, not foreign militaries.
Why does our Department of Defense appropriations bill continue to pay
for other countries' militaries?
Furthermore, the Subcommittee on National Security, Department of
State, and Related Programs appropriations bill released this week
already provides for an additional $1.65 billion in aid to Jordan. Why
are we giving them another $500 million in our appropriations bill for
our Department of Defense?
Congress has appropriated between $1.5 billion and $1.65 billion in
economic and military aid annually to Jordan since 2018--annually. We
are already sending them billions and billions of dollars as the
American people continue to tumble further and further into a graveyard
of debt.
Mr. Chair, $37 trillion is a debt that we don't think we will ever be
able to claw our way out of. However, it is this institution and the
irresponsible continued spending year after year that continues to
enslave the American people in debt.
At what point do our military bases in the Middle East and around the
world make our country safer? In America today, there are still
hundreds of American people dying every single day from fentanyl that
has come from China, which the cartels create into press pills and
other drugs and smuggle them into our country.
It is time to put the American people first, Mr. Chair, and it is
time to finally consider the drastic amount of spending that we spend
every single year on foreign aid.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from California is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, Jordan remains an indispensable ally in an
extremely dangerous region. Our partnership with the Kingdom of Jordan
is critical both to the regional and U.S. national security.
We must continue to ensure Jordan can counter extremist terrorist
threats and have the resources necessary to continue their role as the
linchpin in the region.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ``no'' vote on the amendment, and I yield 1\1/2\
minutes to the gentlewoman from Minnesota (Ms. McCollum), the ranking
member.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the amendment.
Jordan is a longstanding, reliable ally in the region, as the chair
pointed out. When there is any type of incident in the region, for our
national security officials, from CENTCOM generals to diplomats, the
first contact they make is to get the temperature of the region from
their Jordan counterparts.
The United States and Jordan have, since 1996, a status of forces
agreement, a 2006 acquisition and cross-service training agreement, and
a 2021 defense cooperation agreement. This is a 30-year stability-built
relationship in the Middle East with an Arab partner. We need to
nurture and maintain it.
We have deployed military personnel to Jordan to support operations
that defeated ISIS to enhance Jordan's security and to promote regional
stability. Jordan air bases have been particularly important for the
U.S. to conduct intelligence, surveillance, and target acquisition and
reconnaissance missions in Syria and Iraq.
{time}  1400
Just 2 weeks ago, our U.S. Central Commander traveled to Jordan,
where he met with the chairman of the Jordan Joint Chiefs of Staff and
key staff. They discussed the evolving security situation in the
region, the deepening bilateral defense relationship between the United
States and Jordan and further expanding the military-to-military
relationship between Jordan's Armed Forces and ours.
This partnership continues to serve as a steadfast, capable,
strategic partner for peace and stability in the region. We need strong
allies. Jordan has been and continues to be one of our strongest.
For this reason I oppose this amendment. I ask my colleagues to do
the same, and I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, with the American people $37
trillion in debt, we are weighing whether we should send another $500
million to Jordan. They already have received $1.65 billion from
another appropriations request, and they already receive another $1.65
billion every single year from the American taxpayer, who can hardly
afford to pay their bills.
Let's talk about America's veterans. For the past several decades, we
have men and women in our country, great men and women who served in
our military, yet they were shipped over to some foreign war in the
Middle East. That didn't defend America's border. Our border continued
to be overrun by foreign people from all over the world, but they were
sent over there to fight for our freedoms.
Do you know what they came home with?
They came home with physical injuries that they have to live with for
the rest of their lives. They came home
[[Page H3443]]
with PTSD and mental injuries that they live with for the rest of their
lives.
Unfortunately, they have a suicide rate of over 22 a day. Over 6,400
veterans committed suicide in 2022 and 32,000 veterans were homeless in
2024, yet the debate is about spending another $500 million for the
defense of Jordan. That is a country I guarantee you most Americans
can't even find on a map, but most Americans have a veteran in their
family or their friends that suffers every single day from this
country's continued pursuit of foreign wars and funding foreign wars.
Mr. Chair, enough of the foreign aid and foreign wars and funding for
the security of foreign borders that have nothing to do with our own
borders and our own American people and the $37 trillion in debt that
is killing us.
Mr. Chair, I ask my colleagues to support my amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Georgia (Ms. Greene).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes
appeared to have it.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Georgia
will be postponed.
Amendment No. 116 Offered by Ms. Greene of Georgia
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 116
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the
following:
Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may
be used for assistance to Ukraine.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentlewoman
from Georgia (Ms. Greene) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Georgia.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, as we are considering the
Department of Defense appropriations of 2026 that is going to cost the
American people $831 billion, my amendment would be that none of the
funds made available in this act may be used for the assistance to the
Ukraine war.
This is a war that has nothing to do with America. Ukraine is not a
NATO member nation. It is not the American people's responsibility to
pay for this war, and it is not the American military's responsibility
to fund it.
My amendment would ensure that no further resources will be sent to
Ukraine. To date, Congress has provided nearly $175 billion in
assistance to Ukraine, including direct military aid, funding for their
government, and other forms of economic assistance.
For the past 4 years, we had a Democratic President who cared more
about the borders of Ukraine than the country he swore to protect, the
United States of America. They allowed our own country to be invaded by
murderers, rapists, and terrorists, all while sending nearly $175
billion to defend the borders of Ukraine and fund their entire economy.
Our country funded their government at $1 billion a month, and the
American people were forced to pay for their businesses. At a time when
our government shut down American-owned businesses, families could not
afford groceries, and our people were suffering, it was reported that
nightlife in Ukraine was thriving and that there were more bars and
restaurants open in the capital city, Kyiv, than before the start of
the war.
Yet, the American people couldn't send their children to school,
their businesses were shut down, and life here was closed, but the
American people were paying for Ukraine. It was shameful that Americans
were forced to foot the bill of the Ukrainian economy while ours
suffered.
Furthermore, Ukraine is one of the most corrupt governments in the
world, and Zelenskyy is a dictator who, by the way, stopped elections
in his country because of this war. He has jailed journalists. He has
canceled his elections, controlled state media, and persecuted
Christians. The American people should not be forced to continue to pay
for another foreign war in a country that has no effect on our own, and
we are not contractually bound to defend.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Chair, I rise in strong opposition to this
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR (Ms. Malliotakis). The gentlewoman from Minnesota is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Chair, first, the majority has already eliminated
funding for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative in this bill. It
is zero. I personally believe that to be a huge mistake, and that that
only emboldens Putin. President Trump seems to be agreeing now because
just the other day he announced the decision to provide billions of
dollars of equipment to Ukraine through our NATO partners. I give
credit to the President for that decision.
Now we have an amendment to further prohibit any support of Ukraine
as they fight to defend their country from an illegal Russian invasion.
Putin is attempting to rewrite the map of Europe through use of force.
He is doing so in violation of international law. He is deliberately
killing civilians, targeting hospitals and schools, destroying the
economy and the livelihood of Ukraine in the process.
Putin and his thugs are committing war crimes on a mass scale. They
are putting the United States and the democratic nations of the world
on notice, and that is why we must strongly oppose him. If we do not,
then he or other authoritarian leaders will likely try something like
this again, either in Ukraine or elsewhere in the world.
{time}  1410
Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Chair, America is not alone in our military
support of Ukraine. Our NATO and European allies are continuing to
provide billions of dollars for support themselves. That is in line
with the decision that President Trump announced the other day.
Let's not abandon the EU or our NATO allies now, and let's not
abandon Ukraine. The Ukrainian people did not ask for this war. They
deserve our continued support. I urge my colleagues to oppose this
amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield to the gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert).
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I rise in opposition to the gentlewoman's
amendment.
Sadly, we saw for years how the Biden administration failed to
provide Ukraine the resources necessary to fight back in an effective
way against Russian aggression. Just the other day, President Trump
took decisive action to provide weapons to Ukraine to defend against
these unprovoked attacks.
The President is right to support efforts to ensure innocent lives
are no longer lost. He is right to undertake efforts to stop the
bloodshed. As he continues to work toward a peaceful solution, we
should not remove the ability to provide what he thinks will help the
Ukrainian people to prevent further losses and use as leverage to
negotiate a peace agreement hopefully very soon.
Madam Chair, I urge a ``no'' vote on the amendment.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Madam Chair, may I inquire as to how much time
is remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Georgia has 2\1/2\ minutes
remaining.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Madam Chair, Democrats used to be the antiwar
party. Yet, every single Democrat voted to fund the war in Ukraine.
This funding has been approximately $175 billion of the American
people's hard-earned tax dollars. Yet, the American people are in debt
by $37 trillion.
It is said that the Ukrainian people didn't ask for that war. The
American people didn't ask for this debt. The American people are not
obligated to defend every single country around the world.
At what point do we defend our own citizens and their ability to
actually be able to afford life in America? As our debt continues to
climb because Congress refuses to stop spending on priorities that put
America last and refuses
[[Page H3444]]
to stop spending on foreign aid and foreign wars, the American people
will have no chance.
Now that our border is closed--thank God for Tom Homan, ICE, and
President Trump and his administration--we are conducting the largest
deportation operations our country has ever seen. We must continue to
put America first and continue to address the needs of our own people
within our own homeland.
This means no more assistance to Ukraine. The only assistance that
America should be providing is a pathway to peace and not furthering a
war. That is not what the American people want. That is not what the
American people voted for.
Americans do not deserve to have their hard-earned tax dollars fund a
bloody and deadly war in Ukraine. We need peace, and we need peace all
over the world.
This is an unwinnable war in which Americans are footing the bill,
and it has resulted in mass casualties in both Nations. Americans don't
want to pay for murder.
Rough estimates show that over 1.5 million people have been killed
and injured since the start of this war. A Ukrainian assessment earlier
in 2024 placed Ukrainian troop losses at 80,000 killed and 400,000
wounded. Estimates from June of this year show that approximately 1
million Russian soldiers have been killed or wounded.
These are people's sons. These are people's brothers. They are their
cousins and their husbands. An entire generation of Ukrainian men are
being wiped out. Russian men are, as well. This isn't something the
American people should pay for.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Chair, I would stress to the body that the
majority has already eliminated any funding for the Ukraine Security
Assistance Initiative in this bill. I believe this is a huge mistake.
The amendment does not accomplish cutting the funding.
I would point out again, Madam Chair, when I talked about
international war crimes and when the previous speaker was talking
about the loss of life in Ukraine, there are 20,000 Ukrainian children
who have been kidnapped by Russia. They were ripped from their homes
and the arms of their mothers and fathers. That is a war crime, and we
should not be silent on that.
Madam Chair, I thank President Trump for now realizing it is
important we come to Ukraine's aid through our NATO partners.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Georgia (Ms. Greene).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes
appeared to have it.
Ms. GREENE. Madam Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Georgia
will be postponed.
Amendment No. 159 Offered by Mr. Joyce of Pennsylvania
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 159
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
On page 28, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $30,000,000)''.
On page 39, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $30,000,000)''.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. Joyce) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Pennsylvania.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Chair, I rise today to speak in
support of amendment No. 159, to provide funding for the purchase of
heavy dump trucks, or HDTs, for the Active Army, the Army National
Guard, and the Army Reserve.
While much of the focus in our FY26 Defense appropriations bill is on
weapons and on other Defense materials, the tools that our military use
to ensure that the infrastructure is in place to support our
servicemembers are just as critical to our Nation's success.
HDTs are necessary for the construction and the maintenance of supply
routes, airfields, helipads, and logistical facilities in both combat
and noncombat zones.
Currently, our military is forced to rely on an outdated and an
unreliable fleet of trucks. Upgrading these vehicles will provide our
servicemembers with up-to-date safety features such as blind spot
detection, collision avoidance, and antilock brakes that are common in
most modern vehicles.
Additionally, modernization of the fleet will also accommodate
armored ballistic cabs, vitally critical for protecting our
warfighters.
Not only will this amendment ensure that our servicemembers can
utilize modern technology when building the infrastructure that our
warfighters rely on, but it also puts millions of dollars into local
economies throughout our country.
From my home State of Pennsylvania to Minnesota, communities across
the United States play a vital role in supporting the HDT industrial
base. This amendment will continue to support the hardworking Americans
who build these trucks.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense
amendment to ensure our servicemembers have the most up-to-date
technology to support our warfighters.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
{time}  1420
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Chair, I yield to the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. Mackenzie).
Mr. MACKENZIE. Madam Chair, I rise in support of this amendment by my
colleague from Pennsylvania that increases funding by $30 million for
procurement of the Army's heavy dump trucks and offsets it with a $30
million reduction to future tactical unmanned aircraft system
development. While that development remains important, the Army's heavy
dump trucks are critical to current operational needs.
These trucks are manufactured by companies like Mack Defense in
Allentown, Pennsylvania. I have had the opportunity to tour that
facility and see firsthand how this facility provides well-paying jobs
in our community while at the same time reinforcing the strength of our
Nation's defense industrial base.
This amendment delivers the tactical vehicles our troops rely on that
are built by a critical manufacturer right in the Lehigh Valley.
Madam Chair, I am proud to cosponsor this amendment, and I urge my
colleagues to join me in supporting its passage.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman has the only time.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Joyce).
The amendment was agreed to.
Amendment No. 221 offered by Mrs. Miller-Meeks
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 221
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Madam Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of the bill (before the short title) insert the
following:
Sec. __. None of the funds made available by this Act be
used to reduce the workforce at any active United States Army
arsenal.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentlewoman
from Iowa (Mrs. Miller-Meeks) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Iowa.
Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Madam Chair, America's warfighters rely on more
than courage and training. They rely on an uninterrupted supply of
expertly manufactured weapons, parts, and ammunition. That lifeline
begins with our Army arsenals.
[[Page H3445]]
My amendment to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act protects
that lifeline by prohibiting any Federal funds from being used to
reduce the workforce at Rock Island Arsenal, Joint Munitions Command,
Army Sustainment Command, or any other active U.S. Army arsenal.
Rock Island Arsenal is more than just a military installation. It is
a critical node in our Nation's defense infrastructure. Its civilian
experts, many of them veterans, produce, repair, and innovate the
equipment our troops depend on from the front lines to forward
operating bases.
Every rifle sight calibrated, every artillery shell inspected, and
every 3D-printed replacement part shipped from Rock Island shortens the
time between a soldier's need and the answer that keeps that soldier
alive.
When rumors surfaced of workforce reductions at the island, I wrote
to Secretary of the Army Driscoll, made a site visit with him, and
spoke directly with the men and women whose skills cannot be replicated
overnight. This amendment cements their mission readiness. It prevents
talent loss, preserves irreplaceable know-how, and keeps our defense
industrial base resilient against any adversary who hopes to see it
weakened.
In addition to being a pillar of our national defense, Rock Island
Arsenal supports more than 15,000 jobs. Nearly one-half of those
workers live in Iowa. It also contributes over $1.2 billion annually to
the economy of the Quad Cities region. These are good-paying jobs that
support families, grow our communities, and, most importantly, provide
the backbone of our military supply chain.
As a 24-year Army veteran, I know how vital these arsenals are, not
just to the military, but to the Nation. This is about protecting
readiness, our military, and America.
With the assurance of the chair that he will work with me to ensure
that this amendment does what we intend it to do and continues to
supply our military with the munitions they need, I will always fight
for Rock Island Arsenal, and the men and women in and out of uniform
who power its mission and protect our Nation.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I claim the time in opposition but not the
intent of the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objection, the gentleman from California is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I state to the gentlewoman that certainly I
look forward to working with her as we move forward with this
legislation to make sure that we have the right type of language.
What I am going to do is work with the gentlewoman as we move forward
on this legislation to make sure that we don't have any unintended
consequences in the language. We will do that as we move this
legislation forward. I appreciate the gentlewoman withdrawing the
amendment.
Mrs. MILLER-MEEKS. Madam Chair, with the assurance that the chairman
and I will work together, I yield back the balance of my time, and I
withdraw the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The amendment is withdrawn.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Amendment No. 248 Offered by Mr. Ogles
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 248
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Amendment No. 277 Offered by Mr. Steube
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 277
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Mr. STEUBE. Madam Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of the bill (before the short title) insert the
following:
Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act be
used for assistance to the Lebanese Armed Forces.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentleman
from Florida (Mr. Steube) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Florida.
Mr. STEUBE. Madam Chair, it is our duty to afford the American people
the assurance that their tax dollars are spent fulfilling the needs of
the American people, not funneled to terrorist proxies that threaten
our very existence.
My amendment would ensure that not a single taxpayer dollar would be
sent to the Lebanese Armed Forces, a military force riddled with
Hezbollah sympathizers that acts as yet another proxy of the Iranian
terror regime.
To say that Hezbollah and its allies do not have any control over the
Lebanese state is just categorically false. Hezbollah and other terror
groups that operate freely throughout the country have launched
countless attacks on our ally Israel.
In the past year alone, Hezbollah has indiscriminately launched
nearly 2,000 missiles into Israeli territory, attempting to replicate
the horrific atrocities that occurred on October 7, yet the Lebanese
military has consistently failed to take any substantive action to
eliminate Hezbollah from its control over the Lebanese state.
Not only do Hezbollah and its allies control dozens of seats in
Lebanon's Parliament, but they literally sit at the helm of the
military force that the American taxpayer has been propping up since
2006.
As a matter of fact, Nabih Berri, the speaker of the Lebanese
Parliament, is a Hezbollah sympathizer himself. As the head of the Amal
Movement, his group joined Hezbollah in their war against Israel and
launched attacks upon the IDF. Like Hezbollah, Amal is just another
proxy of the Iranian terror regime.
Why should we trust the Lebanese Government that our assistance to
their military wouldn't be funneled to terrorism when their own speaker
of parliament is a terrorist supporter himself?
While the Lebanese military alleges a willingness to disband and
disarm Hezbollah, their actions prove otherwise. The Lebanese military
is conveniently absent in Hezbollah strongholds and is far too
reluctant to take any meaningful action to eliminate Hezbollah once and
for all.
That is why I introduced legislation providing for an eight-point
plan to condition aid to the Lebanese military, including provisions
that would disband Hezbollah, eliminate all coordination with and
support from the Iranian regime, and end persecution of American
citizens who have advocated against Hezbollah's influence over the
Government of Lebanon.
This bill, the PAGER Act, offers a clear roadmap to strategically
realign the Lebanese Government to no longer threaten the United States
or our allies and interests in the Middle East.
In fact, a significant portion of Lebanon's military expenditures
don't even go toward its defense. Over 70 percent of its budget has
consistently been allocated for personnel salaries and excessive
benefits, including domestic servants and drivers for high-ranking
officers. American taxpayers expect their hard-earned tax dollars to be
spent on American interests, not armored Mercedes and other luxury
goods for Lebanese generals.
This really should be a bipartisan issue. Where are the Democrats
complaining about Lebanon's human rights atrocities?
The Democrats were silent when the Lebanese military shot protesters,
silent when they forcibly repatriated Syrian refugees, and silent when
the Lebanese military failed to prevent Hezbollah from indiscriminately
targeting our ally Israel. Yet, they tell us to turn a blind eye and
let the Lebanese military abuse the generosity of the American
taxpayer.
We cannot, in good conscience, continue sending U.S. taxpayer dollars
to Lebanon when they are complicit in empowering a terrorist
organization whose primary mission is to destroy America and Israel.
Money is fungible, and every dollar funneled to Lebanon is another
resource aiding Hezbollah's operations, undermining regional stability,
and threatening Israel's security.
Until they finally eliminate Hezbollah and stop reporting to their
handlers in Tehran, any more funds to the Lebanese military are simply
unjustifiable.
I encourage my colleagues to recognize the pressing danger that still
exists within the Lebanese military and vote for my amendment.
[[Page H3446]]
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
{time}  1430
Mr. ISSA. Madam Chair, I claim the time in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from California is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. ISSA. Madam Chair, I yield such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. LaHood).
Mr. LaHOOD. Madam Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this
misguided amendment.
The longstanding U.S. military investment for the independent
Lebanese Armed Forces, also known as the LAF, has worked to support
U.S. security interests in the Middle East for close to 20 years.
As co-chair of the U.S.-Lebanon Friendship Caucus and a member of the
House Intelligence Committee, I work closely with the brave men and
women in the U.S. military who work alongside the LAF to ensure robust
oversight of U.S. military funding and training resources.
The stability of the LAF is important not only to the security of
Lebanon but also their neighboring countries and the United States.
That stability is more important than ever as the LAF works to
permanently disarm and destroy Hezbollah's presence in Lebanon.
Building on the tremendous success of Israel in weakening Iran and
eliminating Hezbollah's terrorist leader network, Hezbollah is now at
its weakest point. This is a tremendous opportunity for the LAF and for
the people of Lebanon to root out terror proxy influence from within
their borders.
The LAF has an active mission and expectation from the United States
and others to fully disarm Hezbollah, and they are working to
accomplish that every day.
Eliminating military funding from the LAF now will only serve to
further embolden Hezbollah and allow them to regroup. This cannot
happen with Hezbollah on their back foot. U.S. support and funding for
the LAF is more important than ever.
This amendment is misguided. To prove that point, I will reference an
article from earlier this week, from July 12 of 2025: This week the
Trump administration, the State Department, and the DOD approved $100
million to go to the LAF for the Super Tucano aircraft.
In listening to what the State Department said regarding the sale of
military equipment to Lebanon, this is their statement: ``This proposed
sale will support the foreign policy and national security of the
United States by improving the security of a partner country,
[Lebanon,] that continues to be an important force for political
stability and economic progress in the Middle East.''
Madam Chair, I include in the Record an article dated July 12, 2025,
which shows that the current Trump administration supports military
funding to the LAF.
[From L'Orient Today, July 12, 2025]
US Approves Potential $100 Million Sale to Lebanon for A-29 Super
Tucano Maintenance
Beirut--The U.S. State Department has approved a potential
$100 million sale to Lebanon for maintenance services and
support equipment for the A-29 Super Tucano aircraft, the
Pentagon announced in a statement Friday. The Super Tucano is
a multi-mission aircraft used for training and light attack
operations.
According to the statement, the ``government of Lebanon has
requested to buy support equipment, and other related
elements of a logistics program and support.''
``This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and
national security of the United States by improving the
security of a partner country that continues to be an
important force for political stability and economic progress
in the Middle East,'' the statement read.
The State Department noted that the Lebanese Armed Forces
(LAF) were deployed to southern Lebanon to help implement the
November 2024 cease-fire, which followed 13 months of
conflict between Hezbollah and Israel.
``Sustainment of the A-29 fleet will support the LAF's role
in maintaining the cessation of hostilities by ensuring
maintenance of this critical aircraft, which is used for
Close Air Support in ground maneuver operations, as well as
manned Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance
missions,'' the statement added.
``The sale of A-29 sustainment will support the LAF's
implementation of the cessation of hostilities by providing
maintenance for this critical aircraft, which is used to
conduct Close Air Support as part of ground maneuver
operations, as well as manned Intelligence, Surveillance, and
Reconnaissance,'' the statement adds.
Moreover, the State Department noted that the ``principal
contractor will be Sierra Nevada Corporation [SNC], located
in Sparks, NV'', adding that at this time, the ``U.S.
Government is not aware of any offset agreement proposed in
connection with this potential sale.''
During the clashes in March between clans close to
Hezbollah and the Syrian army along the Lebanese-Syrian
border, the LAF deployed its Super Tucano attack aircraft to
strike at a position in Syria, demonstrating its growing
operational capabilities and use of such weapons. Despite the
cease-fire agreement, Israel has continued to carry out near-
daily airstrikes, mainly in southern Lebanon, and maintains
control over five areas within Lebanese territory.
Mr. LaHOOD. Madam Chair, I oppose this misguided amendment, and I
urge my colleagues to do the same.
Mr. STEUBE. Madam Chair, may I inquire as to the time remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Florida has 1\1/2\ minutes
remaining.
Mr. STEUBE. Madam Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ISSA. Madam Chair, may I inquire as to the time remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from California has 2\1/2\ minutes
remaining.
Mr. ISSA. Madam Chair, in closing, the gentleman from Florida is
entitled to his opinion. It is an opinion he has brought to us not
once, but multiple times. Each time this body has voted down, on a
broad bipartisan basis, this amendment.
There is reason for that, Madam Chair. It has been voted down
repeatedly because, in fact, it is misguided, and it relies on facts
that simply aren't facts.
I don't know about the author of this bill, where he got it, but I
can tell you this. I have stood in Lebanon with our Special Forces who
are training and working on a constant basis with the LAF. I have stood
in Lebanon and seen the destruction of Hezbollah caches, massive
amounts. More than that, I have met with our ally Israel, and in
conversation with Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu, I asked him: Should we
continue to give money to the LAF? His answer was short: Give them
more.
Madam Chair, King Abdullah of Jordan has been passing on necessary
vehicles to help them do their job better, and Israel created the
opportunity for them to retake all of Lebanon and rid it of the Iranian
influence and Hezbollah once and for all.
Our President; his predecessor, Joe Biden; his predecessor, Donald
Trump; his predecessor, Barack Obama; and his predecessor, George W.
Bush, don't agree on much, but they agree on this: It has been worth
the investment. It is paying dividends. You do not let up just at a
point when they are clearing out and making safe for a democracy that,
in fact, would work there but for foreign forces with weapons.
Madam Chair, this has been defeated before, but before we didn't have
the good news and the support of every neighbor and our President the
way we do today.
I ask all Members to vote against this, not because they can't make a
point that Lebanon is a country that has been influenced but because
they can't make a point that the LAF is anything but the only force
that can, in fact, bring an eradication of Hezbollah and keep Iran from
reoccupying that, something that Israel supports and we support.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. STEUBE. Madam Chair, this is a headline from 2 days ago:
``Israeli military attacks Hezbollah sites in eastern Lebanon.''
``The Israeli military on Tuesday said it attacked Hezbollah
positions in Lebanon. Fighter jets targeted military sites in the
eastern Bekaa Valley, which the Iran-backed militia used for training
purposes.''
I include in the Record this Yahoo News report.
Israeli Military Attacks Hezbollah Sites in Eastern Lebanon
July 15, 2025
The Israeli military on Tuesday said it attacked Hezbollah
positions in Lebanon.
Fighter jets targeted military sites in the eastern Bekaa
Valley, which the Iran-backed militia used for training
purposes, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said.
``The military compounds that were struck were used by the
Hezbollah terrorist organization for training and exercising
terrorists
[[Page H3447]]
to plan and carry out terrorist attacks against IDF troops
and the State of Israel,'' the IDF stated.
``As part of the terrorists' exercises and training at
these military sites, the terrorists carried out drills for
gunfire combat and the use of various weapons,'' it added.
The Israeli military said ``the storage of weapons and the
activities of the Hezbollah terrorist organization at these
sites constitute a blatant violation of the understandings
between Israel and Lebanon.''
Lebanese security sources said that Israeli warplanes flew
more than 10 attacks in several eastern locations early on
Tuesday.
According to residents, loud explosions could be heard in
the region. The area is known as a Hezbollah stronghold.
Israel and Hezbollah agreed on a ceasefire November 2024
after more than a year of mutual shelling.
Nevertheless, the Israeli military continues to attack
targets in Lebanon. Both sides accuse each other of violating
the agreement.
Mr. STEUBE. Madam Chair, I also include in the Record another one
from 2 days ago: ``12 said killed as Israel hits elite Hezbollah force
deep inside Lebanon.''
``Israeli jets carried out a wave of airstrikes deep inside Lebanon
aimed at stopping an elite Hezbollah unit from regrouping and
rebuilding . . .''
``The military camps that were targeted are used by the Hezbollah
terror organization for training and preparing terrorists for the
planning and execution of terror operations against IDF forces and the
State of Israel.' ''
12 Said Killed as Israel Hits Elite Hezbollah Force Deep Inside Lebanon
(By Emanuel Fabian)
Military says targets in northeastern Beqaa Valley include
Radwan unit facilities, where military activity was taking
place in `blatant violation' of November ceasefire.
Israeli jets carried out a wave of airstrikes deep inside
Lebanon aimed at stopping an elite Hezbollah unit from
regrouping and rebuilding its strength, authorities said
Tuesday.
Lebanese state media reported that 12 people were killed.
``Enemy warplanes launched raids on the Wadi Fara area in
the northern Beqaa Valley, one of which targeted a camp for
displaced Syrians, resulting in the deaths of 12 martyrs,
including seven Syrians, and eight wounded,'' the country's
state-run National News Agency reported.
The strikes in Lebanon's northeastern Beqaa Valley were
aimed at military facilities belonging to the Hezbollah
terror group's Radwan force, where operatives and weapon
depots had been detected, the Israel Defense Forces said.
``The military camps that were targeted are used by the
Hezbollah terror organization for training and preparing
terrorists for the planning and execution of terror
operations against IDF forces and the State of Israel,'' the
military said in a statement.
The weapons stored at the sites and Hezbollah's activity
``constitute a blatant violation of the understandings
between Israel and Lebanon, and pose a future threat to the
State of Israel,'' the statement added.
Defense Minister Israel Katz called the strikes ``a clear
message to the Hezbollah terror organization, which is
plotting to rebuild its invasion-of-Israel capabilities
through the Radwan force, and also to the Lebanese
government, which is responsible for upholding the
agreement.''
``We will strike every terrorist and thwart any threat to
the residents of the north and to the State of Israel, and we
will respond with maximum force against any attempt [by
Hezbollah] to rebuild,'' he added.
Israel has carried out dozens of strikes in southern
Lebanon targeting Hezbollah operatives and arms since
reaching a ceasefire with the group in November following
several weeks of intense fighting, while attacks deeper
inside Lebanon are less common.
There was no immediate comment from the Lebanese government
about Tuesday's strikes, though the official National News
Agency reported that ``enemy warplanes launched a raid''
southeast of Baalbek, the main city in the region.
The rugged Beqaa Valley is seen as a stronghold for
Hezbollah, and had been considered a key conduit for
smuggling weapons into Lebanon via Syria before Hezbollah
ally Bashar al-Assad was ousted from the leadership of Syria
late last year.
On Sunday, the IDF said Israeli troops had raided military
facilities of the deposed Syrian regime last week, seizing
some three tons of weapons. It indicated that the arms had
been intended to be smuggled into Lebanon.
According to Israel, the Radwan force had in recent years
planned to carry out a large-scale invasion of northern
Israel, but was forced to shelve the scheme after Hamas
attacked southern Israel from Gaza on October 7, 2023,
plunging the region into war.
A day after the attack, Hezbollah began firing rockets,
drones, and anti-tank missiles at northern Israeli
communities, carrying out attacks on a near-daily basis in
solidarity with Hamas.
The rocket fire displaced some 60,000 residents of northern
Israel. In a bid to ensure their safe return, Israel stepped
up operations in Lebanon in September, leading to two months
of open warfare with Hezbollah in which the terror group's
leadership and arsenal were decimated.
A ceasefire in November largely stopped the fighting, but
Israeli strikes against Hezbollah operatives have continued
on a regular basis. The agreement allows Israel to strike
imminent threats, though Jerusalem is required to bring less
urgent concerns to an international committee.
Hezbollah is currently under pressure from Lebanon's
Western-backed government to disarm as part of an arrangement
that could reportedly see Israel halt attacks and pull its
troops south of the border.
Mr. STEUBE. We should put America first, not Lebanon first and
America last.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Steube).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes
appeared to have it.
Mr. STEUBE. Madam Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Florida will
be postponed.
Amendment No. 287 Offered by Ms. Tenney
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 287
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Ms. TENNEY. Madam Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Page 40, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $71,000,000) (increased by $71,000,000)''.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentlewoman
from New York (Ms. Tenney) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from New York.
Ms. TENNEY. Madam Chair, I rise today to offer and withdraw my
amendment No. 287 to provide $71 million for nonrecurring engineering
expenses associated with designing the new LC-130J as part of LC-130
recapitalization project.
LC-130s are polar ski planes that possess the unique capability of
being able to land on snow instead of solely on a paved runway. The LC-
130 is the only plane in the world with this capability and provides
the United States with a key competitive edge in the Arctic and
Antarctic domains.
The LC-130 fleet is wholly operated by the 109th Airlift Wing of the
New York Air National Guard at Stratton Air National Guard Base in
Scotia, New York.
Beyond its national security importance in supporting our Arctic
strategy, the LC-130 fleet is also critical in supporting our Nation's
scientific research efforts.
Each year, the current LC-130 fleet assists in critical missions in
both Greenland and Antarctica pursuant to President Ronald Reagan's
Presidential memorandum 6646.
However, our current LC-130H fleet is aging quickly, with some planes
over 50 years old. Despite the great work of the 109th Airlift Wing in
maintaining these planes, we must quickly recapitalize these planes to
ensure the U.S. does not lose the critical capabilities provided by the
LC-130 fleet.
Before I conclude, I want to thank Bob Epp and Dennis Feeney from the
New York National Guard's legislative team, General Steven Slosek from
the 109th Airlift Wing, General Michael Bank, the New York Air National
Guard Commander; and General Ray Shields, the New York Adjutant
General, for their tireless efforts in advocating alongside me for the
LC-130 recapitalization.
Last year, with the help of these individuals and Chairman Calvert,
we were able to secure $29 million in the FY25 CR spend plan for the
Department of Defense for these nonrecurring engineering expenses.
Rest assured, I will continue fighting to secure the additional
funding in the final FY26 Defense bill.
Before I withdraw this amendment, I ask Chairman Calvert to commit to
working with me on the continued LC-130 recapitalization project as you
have so graciously in the past.
Madam Chair, I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman
from California (Mr. Calvert).
[[Page H3448]]
{time}  1440
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I look forward to working with the
gentlewoman. We need a place for those aircraft to land in Greenland.
Ms. TENNEY. Madam Chair, that is a mission of our President, of
course.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time, and I withdraw my
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The amendment is withdrawn.
Amendment No. 293 Offered by Mr. Tiffany
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 293
printed in part A of House Report 119-199.
Mr. TIFFANY. Madam Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of the bill (before the short title), add the
following:
Sec. _. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made
available by this Act may be expended to create, procure, or
display any map that depicts Taiwan, Kinmen, Matsu, Penghu,
Wuciou, Green Island, or Orchid Island as part of the
territory of the People's Republic of China.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 580, the gentleman
from Wisconsin (Mr. Tiffany) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Wisconsin.
Mr. TIFFANY. Madam Chair, my amendment would prohibit the Department
of Defense from creating, procuring, or displaying any map which
depicts Taiwan as a part of the territory of the People's Republic of
China.
The House approved a similar amendment as part of the State
Department appropriations bill last Congress, and today's amendment
would simply extend this policy to the Department of Defense.
This is not a controversial amendment since all of us know that
Taiwan is not, nor has it ever been, part of Communist China, even for
a single day.
The people of Taiwan elect their own leaders, deploy their own armed
forces, conduct their own foreign policy, and maintain their own trade
agreements with other countries.
By every measure, Taiwan is a sovereign, democratic, and independent
nation, and any claims to the contrary are simply false.
Since the 1970s, America's so-called One China policy has
acknowledged Beijing's unsubstantiated claims over Taiwan. This is an
antiquated and dishonest policy, and it is one that we should abandon.
While my amendment will not end that misguided policy, it will at least
require that the maps that we use reflect a simple reality: China is
China. Taiwan is Taiwan.
Madam Chair, I ask for a ``yes'' vote on my honest maps amendment,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Chair, I rise in opposition to this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Minnesota is recognized for 5
minutes.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Madam Chair, I understand why the gentleman from
Wisconsin is offering this, and I don't agree with the spirit in which
it is being offered.
The Department of Defense, the administration, this Congress, and I
have been pretty clear on opposition to the unwelcome assertions of
China's control over Taiwan.
As a former social studies teacher, geography was part of what I
would teach. I would never use or display in my classroom a map showing
that China is in possession of Taiwan, but let me take the teaching
just one step further.
This amendment would prevent the Department of Defense from buying or
displaying a map that shows how China views itself in the world, how
China is putting out mis- and disinformation on what they think the
world should look like according to them.
It would force the Department, in my opinion, to put its head in the
sand when showing at the military academies China's view of the world
and why we have to work so hard to defeat that.
I hope we can all agree that it is important to know what our allies
and our adversaries are thinking and that we have adults at our
military academies who can sort out the difference and see the
differences in the maps.
As a geography teacher and a person who used to use maps, that is my
only opposition to the gentleman's amendment.
I know what he is getting at. I don't disagree with it, but sometimes
you have to have what your enemy has, how they view the world and what
they are showing the world, in juxtaposition to how we view the world
and how Taiwan needs to remain independent.
Congress and the Department should focus our time and energy on being
clear about China with respect to international boundaries and rule of
law.
As a geography teacher, I had to say something, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. TIFFANY. Madam Chair, I yield such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert).
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I certainly rise in support of the
amendment. The amendment prohibits the expenditure of funds to create,
procure, or display any map that depicts Taiwan as part of the
territory of the People's Republic of China.
Let's be clear: Taiwan is not a part of the People's Republic of
China. We should not appease the desires of the Communist Chinese
leadership by pretending that it is. Our maps should accurately reflect
this reality.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues to support the amendment, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. TIFFANY. Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Arizona (Mr. Biggs).
Mr. BIGGS of Arizona. Madam Chair, Taiwan is a great friend of the
United States, and it is a unique friend to Arizona.
The CCP uses every tool it can, including maps, to undermine truth
and assert illegitimate claims over sovereign territory. Congress
should not fund anything that supports the CCP's disinformation
efforts, and now is the time for strategic clarity, with rising
bellicosity coming from the CCP.
We cannot allow authoritarian regimes to dictate how our government
communicates facts. If we truly stand for freedom, sovereignty, and
truth, then we must also stand with Taiwan. This is one way to do so.
Mr. TIFFANY. Madam Chair, I will close by saying that I appreciate
the consistency by the gentlewoman from Minnesota because she said the
same thing a couple of years ago. Yet, this body was excluded back in
1979 when the One China policy was implemented by President Carter, and
it is up to this body to make sure that it claims its rightful place in
foreign policy when we have an issue like this before us.
The gentlewoman talks about the spirit of this amendment. This
amendment is issued in the spirit of freedom, and that is all that
Taiwan is looking for, to defend its freedom, and it should be able to
do it.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr. Tiffany).
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. The Chair understands that amendment No. 303 will
not be offered.
Mr. CALVERT. Madam Chair, I move that the Committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
Fine) having assumed the chair, Ms. Malliotakis, Acting Chair of the
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, reported that
that Committee, having had under consideration the bill (H.R. 4016)
making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2026, and for other purposes, had come to no
resolution thereon.
____________________