[Congressional Record Volume 167, Number 215 (Tuesday, December 14, 2021)]
[House]
[Pages H7816-H7820]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
JOINT RESOLUTION RELATING TO INCREASING THE DEBT LIMIT
Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 852, I call up
the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 33) joint resolution relating to
increasing the debt limit, and ask for its immediate consideration in
the House.
The Clerk read the title of the joint resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 852, the joint
resolution is considered read.
The text of the joint resolution is as follows:
S.J. Res. 33
Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, The the
limiation under section 3101(b) of title 31, United States
Code, as most recently increased by Public Law 117-50 (31
U.S.C. 3101 note), is increased by $2,500,000,000,000.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The joint resolution shall be debatable for
1 hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective
designees.
The gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Beyer) and the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. Brady) each will control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Virginia.
General Leave
Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks
and insert extraneous material on Senate Joint Resolution 33.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from Virginia?
There was no objection.
Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I am pleased that today the House will take action to
protect our Nation's full faith and credit. S.J. Res. 33 will ensure
that the United States continues to be a nation that pays its bills,
period.
Without today's action, for the first time in our history, the United
States Government could default on its debt obligations because of the
debt limit, and this would be ruinous for U.S. workers and their
families.
It would trigger a financial crisis on par with that of 2008,
resulting in catastrophic economic damage with millions of jobs lost,
businesses shuttered, and a banking system in chaos.
At a time when our recovery is strong but uncertain, we risk the loss
of six million jobs, an unemployment rate of nearly 9 percent, the
elimination of $15 trillion in household wealth, and a decline in real
GDP of 4 percent.
Nonpartisan Moody's Analytics economist Mark Zandi predicted that
following a default, a global market panic on the scale of the 2008
financial crisis would ensue.
J.P. Morgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon predicted that such a default could
``cause an immediate, literally cascading catastrophe of unbelievable
proportions and damage America for 100 years.''
If the United States were to default, it would likely prompt a
lasting downgrade of the country's credit that would drastically
increase costs for mortgages, car loans, student loans, credit card
bills, and other borrowing. This would threaten the livelihoods of the
very people we are here to represent.
I want to be very clear. Raising the debt ceiling is not about
incurring new debts. We are simply ensuring the Federal Government
keeps its existing commitments, that it pays the bills we have already
racked up.
By raising the debt limit, we are meeting our existing obligations to
members of the military, veterans, and recipients of Medicare,
Medicaid, and Social Security.
In fact, 97 percent of the debts currently necessitating an increase
were accrued prior to the Biden administration, many of which were
passed with bipartisan support. This includes emergency pandemic relief
measures, increased defense spending, and continued government
operations.
Madam Speaker, the time to act is now. Treasury Secretary Yellen has
issued a dire warning: Without congressional action by tomorrow, the
government will be left with insufficient funds to finance government
operations.
Over 50 million seniors could stop receiving Social Security checks
for a time. Troops would go unpaid. Millions of families who rely on
the monthly child tax credit could see delays. Our current economic
recovery would reverse into recession, with billions of dollars of
growth and millions of jobs lost.
As the 2011 debt ceiling crisis shows, even narrowly avoiding a
default costs
[[Page H7817]]
the country billions of dollars. While raising the debt ceiling does
not, on its own, create new debts for the United States Government, a
failure to do so certainly would.
Congress has addressed the debt limit 79 times since 1960 to prevent
default; 30 times with a Democrat in the White House, 49 times under a
Republican President. In fact, under President Trump, Congress took
action to address the debt limit three times and did so without drama.
Today's action should be no different.
I urge my colleagues to support this measure to lift the debt
ceiling, continue paying our bills, and ensure our continued economic
recovery.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
In 2018, Democrat Leader Nancy Pelosi, Leader Hoyer, Whip Clyburn,
and 116 other House Democrats voted to default on the debt, shut down
the government, and refuse disaster relief to devastated communities
across America like mine.
One even said, Republicans control the House, the Senate, and the
White House; responsibility to govern rests squarely on their
shoulders.
Well, right now the Democrats control the House, the Senate, and the
White House. Responsibility rests squarely on their shoulders.
Make no mistake, Democrats have known this day has been coming for 2
years and did absolutely nothing. They passed no budget, passed no
appropriations bills, and they didn't spend a moment in bipartisan
outreach to address the debt ceiling.
I agree, Congress should not play political games with the debt
ceiling, but neither should it ignore the future financial crisis at
risk of accelerating if President Biden and congressional Democrats
pass their nearly $5 trillion socialist welfare plan.
Despite its desperate bid to shift blame for this debt ceiling crisis
Democrats themselves created, increasing America's national debt is
necessary to make room in the so-called Build Back Better bill for
trillions of wasteful spending and special interest handouts for the
wealthy and big business.
Make no mistake, the debt ceiling is not merely about paying for past
spending, it is about making room for new wasteful spending, trillions
that will pour more fuel on the inflation fire that marks Joe Biden's
Presidency, the highest rate in decades, that has robbed families of
their real wage gains from the past 3 years.
Although the President and Democrats in Congress continue to deny
that inflation is real, this is now a crisis for families, and
especially seniors on fixed incomes. Their claims that this costs zero
has been debunked by the independent Congressional Budget Office and
multiple organizations, and fact-checked as false and misleading by The
Washington Post.
And Democrats' insistence that future permanence will be paid for
begs the question they refuse to answer. How? Everyone knows there are
only two ways to raise trillions of dollars more: Tax middle-class
families or rob from entitlement programs like Social Security,
Medicare, Medicaid.
The truth is, the Democrats need this debt ceiling to fund special
interests, give tax subsidies for luxury electric vehicles, and tax
windfalls to millionaires, while the middle class gets nothing, or even
a tax hike.
{time}  2340
They need this debt ceiling to give tax breaks to trial lawyers,
local media corporations, and pay 1.5 million workers more to stay home
than go back to work.
Democrats need a quarter of a trillion dollars to lift the SALT cap
so that two out of three millionaires will get a huge tax break.
Meanwhile, for working families, inflation grows worse. Main Street
businesses continue to struggle hard to find workers, and many parents
will pay over $1,000 a month more for childcare under Build Back
Better.
These are President Biden's priorities. Congressional Democrats,
these are their priorities. The question to America is, are these your
priorities? The answer is no, which is why so many Americans
overwhelmingly question the competence of President Biden and Democrats
to lead this country.
I urge a strong ``no'' vote on this bill, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. Davidson).
Mr. DAVIDSON. Madam Speaker, it is not compassionate to bankrupt
America. That is exactly what this plan does. It equips this country
with more debt to pay for the past debt with no plan to pay for the
future debt. The only thing is more debt. It is a debt bomb, and it is
something that this body has an obligation to stop.
This country is on auto pilot for a crash site, and the only plan is
to keep riding on auto pilot right into the crash site. The whole point
of the debt ceiling is to force this body to do its duty and to come up
with a plan to not default.
The only question isn't whether we default tomorrow, which we
shouldn't, of course we should pay our debts, but we shouldn't default
in the future either. And unless we come up with a different course of
action, this is going to ride all the way to the crash site.
I will oppose this, and I encourage all of my colleagues to do the
same, and we should continue to oppose it until there is a plan to
avert the crisis in the crash that is coming.
Don't bankrupt America.
Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. Palmer).
Mr. PALMER. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Texas for his
leadership. A lot has been said about the Congressional Budget Office
scoring the Build Back Better bill, that it increases the deficit by $3
trillion, putting truth to the lie that the bill is paid for. It is
not.
What the American people need to know is that there is another CBO
report that was released earlier this fall that should be front and
center of this debate over raising the debt limit.
Here is what that report says about the direction America is heading.
According to the CBO, by 2051, America's debt-to-GDP ratio will be over
200 percent. In other words, our debt will be twice the size of our
entire economy.
That CBO report said a growing debt burden would increase the risk of
a fiscal crisis and higher inflation, as well as undermine confidence
in the U.S. dollar, making it more costly to finance public and private
activity in international markets.
The CBO reported that, with growing debt and rising interest rates,
net spending for interest more than triples relative to the size of the
economy.
A New York Times article reported that the CBO warned that such high
debt levels will lift borrowing costs, slow economic output, and raise
the risk of a fiscal crisis.
The Committee for a Responsible Budget warned that the Nation's long-
term output was an air raid siren that can be heard for miles. It said
the mounting debt will make it harder to address income inequality and
to make needed infrastructure improvements. Apparently, my Democratic
colleagues are deaf to that siren.
Now my colleagues want to raise the debt limit by another $2.5
trillion so they can continue down the path of reckless spending with
no regard for the consequences for our Nation's future. That is the
wrong path. That is the dangerous path. And that is why every Member
should heed the warnings and vote ``no.''
Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. Pelosi), the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Ms. PELOSI. Madam Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding me the
time, and more importantly, for bringing this important legislation to
the floor. Now we say that with many bills, and let me tell you, Madam
Speaker, what this means to America's families.
America's families, as they gather around the kitchen table and
figure out their priorities and how they are going to pay their bills
is what keeps them up at night.
We must lift the debt ceiling to cover the expenses already incurred.
It is important to note over 95 percent of it occurred during the Trump
administration, under 4 percent of it during the Biden administration.
But sadly, Republicans have not only abandoned the responsibility
they have
[[Page H7818]]
in all of this, this is what it means to you.
For families, a default could mean millions of American jobs
eliminated, trillions in household wealth erased, reducing the value of
the dollar and an immediate reversal of our strong economic recovery--
six million jobs already under Joe Biden--and having a terrible impact
globally for decades to come.
Just the discussion of not lifting the debt ceiling a number of years
ago when the Republicans in Congress were refusing to do so lowered the
credit rating of the United States of America.
Our Constitution says and it makes clear the validity of the public
debt of the United States authorized by law shall not be questioned.
I point out this other fact. If you have a car loan, if you have a
mortgage, if you have a student loan, if you have credit card bills,
any other borrowing, your interest rates will go up unless we lift the
debt ceiling. So this has a direct impact on the pockets of the
American people on the prospects for their success.
Let's be clear, Republicans want less money in the pockets of the
American people for whatever reason. I don't know what the middle class
and working families ever did to them for them to want to exact this
toll on our economy, on our standing in the world and what it means
globally, but very importantly when you are discussing your finances
over the kitchen table, understand that if your interest rates go up it
is because the refusal of the Republicans to lift the debt ceiling.
I close by saying the full faith and credit of the United States
should never be questioned. The health of our economy should never be
threatened. The financial security of our families must never be
gambled.
I urge a strong ``yes'' vote for this legislation so that we
strengthen our economic recovery, spare families the pain of a
catastrophic default and uphold our duty in the Constitution of the
United States to uphold the full faith and credit of the United States
of America.
Madam Speaker, I urge an ``aye'' vote, and I thank Mr. Beyer for his
leadership on this issue and Mr. Richie Neal, the chair of the
committee, as well.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, sort of a gentle reminder, 2018 Democratic leader
Nancy Pelosi, Leader Hoyer, Whip Clyburn, and 116 other Democrats voted
to default on America's debt to shut down our government at the same
time and refused disaster relief to devastated communities across
America, including in Texas. And as they said, Republicans controlled
the House, the Senate, and the White House, and the responsibility to
govern rests squarely on their shoulders.
And another gentle reminder to the American public, our Democratic
friends have known this day has been coming for 2 years. This is a
crisis that they created. Didn't bother to pass a budget, didn't do
their appropriations bill, no bipartisan outreach. Waited again and
again for this cliff and created this crisis. It has been frustrating
to watch this go on.
And, too, I know middle-class Americans, one out of every three, will
see a tax hike in the Build Back Better bill, but two out of three
millionaires get a huge tax cut. A quarter of a trillion dollars of
this debt ceiling, a quarter of a trillion dollars of this increase
will go to millionaires and billionaires and other wealthy Americans.
{time}  2350
Not to mention the heat your home tax on middle-class families, the
toddler tax on middle-class families, the made in America tax on our
Main Street businesses. What is now clear is that President Biden is a
pay-cut President. Even as most Americans work hard to get ahead in
their careers and their workplaces, they are now falling behind every
month of this Presidency.
They have lost 3 years' worth of real wage growth, went backward in
getting ahead. And just since spring, Americans are losing an average
of $377 a month in real purchasing power.
Who is the party for the middle class and working families? Not
Democrats, who are robbing--inflation--from their paychecks. Adding
another $5 trillion to the inflation fire will only cause prices to
continue to grow faster than paychecks.
The middle class is on the hook for Democrats' handouts to the
highest earners, including their government checks to the top 1 percent
and the biggest corporations, lavish subsidies for luxury electric
vehicles, and tax cuts for the wealthiest.
Over half of families with two kids who pay for childcare will be
forced to pay a $27,000 toddler tax each year under the Democrats'
Washington takeover of childcare. All this hurts American workers and
their families, the poor, and the seniors.
We ought to stop this economic strain. We ought to stop this economic
suppression. We ought to stop this attack on middle-class and working
families. We ought to make progrowth tax reform permanent. It lifted
millions of Americans out of poverty, brought jobs back from overseas,
and, for the first time, started to shrink income inequality.
Madam Speaker, you may remember, in 2019, families in America, their
household income grew more in 1 year under President Trump and the
Republicans than in all 8 years of President Obama and Biden combined.
We believe there is a smarter way to help American working families,
but I know this: Democrats are wrong to fight for $5 trillion of social
spending that will send jobs overseas, limit choice in childcare,
worsen healthcare, and lower paychecks by flaming inflation longer and
making the worker shortage worse.
Madam Speaker, we can't afford this pay-cut Presidency. I once again
urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this measure, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. BEYER. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, very briefly, it seems my Republican friends would
like to make this debate about the bipartisan infrastructure bill and
about the Build Back Better bill despite the fact that these were
wildly popular with the American people. Listening to my Republican
friends, it sounds like we are in a desperate country instead of one
that has created 6 million jobs so far this year, an all-time record
that has 6 percent GDP growth expected this year. Our unemployment rate
is 4.2 percent. It has recovered faster than any time in American
history.
We are about to fund daycare for American working families, bring 3-
and 4-year-olds to school. The child tax credit will be extended.
Our infrastructure bills are going to build more roads and highways,
electric grid, broadband, fix the lead pipes.
All this is in two bills that are paid for--that are paid for--every
penny. When people suggest that the benefits may be extended, we have
also promised to pay for them if that, in fact, happens.
You complain that we haven't done the appropriations bill. This House
did the appropriations bill. But in the Senate, which requires 60
votes, the appropriations bill didn't happen over there.
Madam Speaker, this is not about two very good bills, two paid-for
bills that don't increase the deficit, that don't add to inflation. It
is about the simple fact that we need to pay our bills.
It is a simple bill. This vote should be simple.
During the Trump administration, the Republicans added $7.9
trillion--50 percent--to the national debt. Their Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
alone added $1.9 trillion. We have to pay for that. That is what we are
paying for tonight.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues, Democrat and Republican, to vote
for this good Senate joint resolution to lift the debt ceiling.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. OBERNOLTE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to oppose this $2.5
trillion debt limit increase which this Congress is voting on without
any discussion of how this debate will ever be repaid.
Over the past year, Congress' record levels of spending has sparked
record-breaking inflation. Just last week, our nation hit its highest
inflation rate in 40 years with current annual inflation for the twelve
months ending in November at 6.8%. As a consequence, real average
hourly earnings decreased by half a percent in November. Surging costs
for food, energy, housing, and other items have left the average
American family reeling. In my California district, the average price
of a tank of
[[Page H7819]]
gasoline has increased over $20 since January, while the price of
natural gas is up more than 25 percent.
Congress is not only spending at a level that is well beyond our
self-imposed limits, but also beyond what our economy can safely
handle, and Madam Speaker, instead of reducing our spending and finding
places to save as any American family would, this institution is
working to push through another multi-trillion-dollar social spending
package that would drive our debt and our inflation further into
crisis.
Madam Speaker, this unconscionable spending is the epitome of
irresponsible governance. We must take measures to end this reckless
spending and put our financial house in order. To that end I have
introduced two bills that the House might better spend its time
considering in the coming weeks instead of continuing debate on the
reckless social spending bill.
My Constitutional Amendment to balance the budget would amend the
U.S. Constitution to ensure total federal spending for a fiscal year
does not exceed the total amount of federal revenue. It includes off-
ramps that encourage bipartisanship in times of crisis and would end
the seemingly-endless cycle of budget deficits.
Likewise, my Finding Federal Savings Committee Resolution would help
to cut back on government waste by creating a bipartisan committee in
this body to identify underperforming and nonessential federal programs
and recommend their elimination or modification. Neither of these ideas
are partisan, nor are they radical. They simply take steps to solve a
problem that this body has continued to kick down the road for future
generations to repay.
Madam Speaker, this Congress must do better. I call on my colleagues
to reverse course, to stop this reckless spending, and to vote no on
raising the debt ceiling without a plan to repay our debt.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, as a senior member of the Committees
on the Judiciary, on Homeland Security, and on the Budget, I rise in
support of S.J. Res. 33--Joint resolution relating to increasing the
debt limit, a measure raising the national debt limit by $2.5 trillion,
which is imperative to avoid a wasteful, irresponsible, reckless
threatening of the nation's singular indispensable asset: the full
faith and credit of the United States.
Madam Speaker, preserving the full faith and credit of the United
States by raising to the debt limit to ensure that America pays the
bills for past expenditures when they come due is not a partisan
exercise but an act of patriotism, a recognition and embrace of the
solemn obligation to preserve the unrivaled advantages that flow from
the ability provided in the Article I, Section 8, clause 2 of the
Constitution to ``borrow money on the credit of the United States.''
Long ago, in 1789, Alexander Hamilton, the nation's first and
greatest Treasury Secretary, understood that the path to American
prosperity and greatness lay in its creditworthiness which provided the
affordable access to capital needed to fund internal improvements and
economic growth.
It is because of the existence and wise use of the Borrowing Power
that the nation was able to expand its reaches, resources, and riches
by financing the Louisiana Purchase, the purchase of Alaska from
Russia, to fund the investments to end the Great Depression, to finance
the mobilization of resources needed in World War II to defeat fascism
and save freedom in the nation and the world, to revive the economy
after the catastrophic Great Recession of 2008, and most recently, to
protect the public health and safety and restore the economy during the
COVID-19 pandemic.
This is why the ability to borrow money on the credit of the United
States to finance its growth and protect its people and interests is
essential to the national security and led Hamilton to proclaim that
``the proper funding of the present debt, will render it a national
blessing.''
But to maintain this blessing, or to ``render public credit
immortal,'' Hamilton understood that it was necessary that: ``the
creation of debt should always be accompanied with the means of
extinguishment.''
In other words, to retain and enjoy the prosperity that flows from
good credit, it is necessary for a nation to pay its bills.
The United States has never defaulted on the payment of any debt
incurred, and because of the size and strength of its economic and
unmatched creditworthiness, is able to borrow on the lowest and most
favorable terms of any nation or entity in the history of the world.
So secure and reliable is a bond issues by the Department of Treasury
that the United States is the preferred haven for investments of
foreign governments, corporations, and sovereign wealth funds.
The interest rate charged the federal government of the United States
is the base for which every rate, from the prime rate charged the
richest corporation to rates charged small business on purchases to the
mortgages rates and students loans taken out by consumers.
If you raise the cost of borrowing for the government of the United
States, you set off a chain reaction of increased interest rates for
every other borrower in the United States and around the world.
This is why leading public finance experts and agencies, like Moody's
Chief Economist Mark Zandi, have said it would be ``cataclysmic'' for
the United States to default on its loan obligations.
Republicans know the debt ceiling needs to be raised; in 2019 during
the Trump Administration, the Republican Senate Majority Leader
marshalled Senate Republicans to vote to raise the debt ceiling,
saying: ``We raised the debt ceiling because America can't default[,]
that would be a disaster.''
Madam Speaker, this debate over extending the debt limit is not about
restraining future spending, it is about paying the bills piled up
already under both Republican and Democratic administrations.
The question of raising the national debt limit does not depend on
how one feels about the Build Back Better agenda, as wildly popular as
it is among all Americans, Democrats, Independents, and Republicans
included.
It is instead about preserving the singular asset of the United
States, its enviable and unrivaled creditworthiness, to finance future
investments beneficial to the national interest, like the provision of
free college for two years, or $2 billion investment to reduce violence
in communities approved by the Committee on the Judiciary, or
investments to preserve and strengthen Medicaid expansion programs, or
extend broadband to underserved rural and urban areas, an action that
will be as life-changing as the rural electrification program was in
the 1930s.
Madam Speaker, if our friends across the aisle really want to shrink
the deficit, reduce the national debt, practice fiscal responsibility,
and bring about sustained economic growth and prosperity, there is a
much better, easier, and more certain way to achieve these goals than
by tampering with the U.S. Constitution.
The easier and better way is for the American people to keep a
Democrat in the White House and place Democratic majorities in the
House and Senate.
In the 1990s under the leadership of President Clinton the budget was
balanced for four consecutive years, the national debt was paid down,
the national debt, 23 million new jobs were created, and projected
surpluses exceeded $5 trillion.
Under President Obama the financial crisis and economic meltdown
inherited from his Republican predecessor was ended, the annual deficit
was reduced by 67 percent, the auto industry was saved from collapse,
and 15 million jobs were created.
In contrast, under every Republican administration since President
Reagan the size of the deficit bequeathed to his successor was
substantially larger than the deficit he inherited, a major economic
recession occurred, and economic growth was lower than it was at the
beginning of his administration.
To preserve the sanctity of the full faith and credit of the United
States, protect American jobs and businesses of all sizes, and ensure
the continued growth of the economy, I support and urge all Members to
join me in voting for S.J. Res. 33--Joint resolution relating to
increasing the debt limit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time for debate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the previous question is ordered on the joint
resolution.
The question is on the third reading of the joint resolution.
The joint resolution was ordered to be read a third time, and was
read the third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the passage of the joint
resolution.
The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to section 3(s) of House Resolution
8, the yeas and nays are ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 221,
nays 209, not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 449]
YEAS--221
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Auchincloss
Axne
Barragan
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bourdeaux
Bowman
Boyle, Brendan F.
Brown (MD)
Brown (OH)
Brownley
Bush
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cardenas
Carson
Carter (LA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu
Cicilline
Clark (MA)
[[Page H7820]]
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael F.
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel, Lois
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez, Vicente
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jacobs (CA)
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Jones
Kahele
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim (NJ)
Kind
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Leger Fernandez
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lieu
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney, Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Manning
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mfume
Moore (WI)
Morelle
Moulton
Mrvan
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newman
Norcross
O'Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Ross
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sanchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stansbury
Stanton
Stevens
Strickland
Suozzi
Swalwell
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres (NY)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Velazquez
Wasserman Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Williams (GA)
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS--209
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bentz
Bergman
Bice (OK)
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Boebert
Bost
Brady
Brooks
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Calvert
Cammack
Carey
Carl
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Clyde
Cole
Comer
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Donalds
Duncan
Dunn
Ellzey
Emmer
Estes
Fallon
Feenstra
Ferguson
Fischbach
Fitzgerald
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fortenberry
Foxx
Franklin, C. Scott
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garbarino
Garcia (CA)
Gibbs
Gimenez
Gohmert
Gonzales, Tony
Gonzalez (OH)
Good (VA)
Gooden (TX)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Greene (GA)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Harshbarger
Hartzler
Hern
Herrell
Herrera Beutler
Hill
Hinson
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Issa
Jackson
Jacobs (NY)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kim (CA)
Kustoff
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
LaTurner
Lesko
Letlow
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Mace
Malliotakis
Mann
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClain
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meijer
Meuser
Miller (IL)
Miller (WV)
Miller-Meeks
Moolenaar
Mooney
Moore (AL)
Moore (UT)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Nehls
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Obernolte
Owens
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Pfluger
Posey
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose
Rosendale
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Salazar
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sessions
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spartz
Stauber
Steel
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Tiffany
Timmons
Turner
Upton
Valadao
Van Drew
Van Duyne
Wagner
Walberg
Walorski
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams (TX)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING--4
Cawthorn
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Vela
{time}  0020
So the joint resolution was passed.
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
Stated for:
Mr. VELA. Madam Speaker, I was present and voted ``yea'' on rollcall
No. 449, final passage of S.J. Res. 33. However, it has come to my
attention that my vote was not recorded, and I would like the record to
show how my vote would have been counted on S.J. Res. 33. Had I been
present, I would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall No. 449.
members recorded pursuant to house resolution 8, 117th congress
Amodei (Balderson)
Armstrong (Johnson (SD))
Axne (Wild)
Baird (Bucshon)
Barragan (Beyer)
Bass (Cicilline)
Beatty (Blunt Rochester)
Bera (Aguilar)
Bilirakis (Fleischmann)
Blumenauer (Beyer)
Bonamici (Kuster)
Bowman (Pocan)
Boyle, Brendan F. (Evans)
Brooks (Moore (AL))
Brownley (Kuster)
Buchanan (Waltz)
Butterfield (Kildee)
Carl (Joyce (PA))
Calvert (Garcia (CA))
Cardenas (Gomez)
Carter (TX) (Weber (TX))
Case (Correa)
Clark (MA) (Kuster)
Cohen (Beyer)
Cole (Lucas)
Crist (Soto)
Cuellar (Green (TX))
Curtis (Stewart)
DeFazio (Brown (MD))
DelBene (Larsen (WA))
DeGette (Blunt Rochester)
DeSaulnier (Beyer)
Diaz-Balart (Burgess)
Doggett (Raskin)
Doyle, Michael F. (Evans)
Escobar (Garcia (TX))
Espaillat (Correa)
Fletcher (Raskin)
Frankel, Lois (Kuster)
Fulcher (Johnson (OH))
Garamendi (Sherman)
Gimenez (Cammack)
Gohmert (Weber (TX))
Gonzalez, Vicente (Correa)
Gosar (Boebert)
Gottheimer (Sherrill)
Granger (Arrington)
Graves (MO) (Fleischmann)
Green (TN) (Fleischmann)
Grijalva (Stanton)
Guthrie (Bucshon)
Hagedorn (Moolenaar)
Hartzler (DesJarlais)
Hayes (Wild)
Hern (Lucas)
Herrera Beutler (Rice (SC))
Horsford (Carter (LA))
Huffman (Levin (CA))
Jacobs (CA) (Correa)
Jacobs (NY) (Garbarino)
Jackson (Van Duyne)
Jayapal (Raskin)
Johnson (TX) (Beyer)
Jones (Craig)
Joyce (OH) (Garbarino)
Kahele (Mrvan)
Katko (Meijer)
Khanna (Connolly)
Kilmer (Kildee)
Kim (CA) (Gonzalez (OH))
Kinzinger (Meijer)
Kirkpatrick (Pallone)
Krishnamoorthi (Brown (MD))
LaHood (Wenstrup)
Lamborn (Bacon)
Lawson (FL) (Evans)
Leger Fernandez (Gallego)
Lesko (Joyce (PA))
Long (Banks)
Loudermilk (Fleischmann)
Lowenthal (Beyer)
Luetkemeyer (McHenry)
Maloney, Carolyn B. (Wasserman Schultz)
Mast (Waltz)
McCaul (Burgess)
McEachin (Brown (MD))
Meng (Kuster)
Meuser (Burgess)
Miller (WV) (Van Duyne)
Moore (UT) (Stewart)
Moulton (Beyer)
Nadler (Pallone)
Napolitano (Correa)
Neal (Beyer)
Neguse (Perlmutter)
Nehls (Fallon)
Newman (Wild)
Nunes (Garcia (CA))
Ocasio-Cortez (Garcia (IL))
O'Halleran (Stanton)
Owens (Stewart)
Pascrell (Pallone)
Payne (Pallone)
Peters (Kildee)
Pingree (Kuster)
Porter (Aguilar)
Posey (Cammack)
Price (NC) (Connolly)
Reed (Rice (SC))
Reschenthaler (Burgess)
Rodgers (WA) (Joyce (PA))
Roybal-Allard (Connolly)
Ruiz (Aguilar)
Ruppersberger (Aguilar)
Rush (Quigley)
Salazar (Cammack)
Sanchez (Costa)
Schrader (Correa)
Sewell (Cicilline)
Simpson (Stewart)
Sires (Pallone)
Speier (Scanlon)
Stansbury (Kuster)
Stefanik (Burgess)
Strickland (Schrier)
Suozzi (Kildee)
Swalwell (Gomez)
Titus (Connolly)
Tonko (Pallone)
Torres (NY) (Cicilline)
Trahan (McGovern)
Trone (Brown (MD))
Underwood (Casten)
Van Drew (Burgess)
Vargas (Correa)
Velazquez (Clarke (NY))
Wagner (McHenry)
Walorski (Banks)
Watson Coleman (Pallone)
Welch (McGovern)
Wilson (FL) (Brown (MD))
Wilson (SC) (Dunn)
Zeldin (Timmons)
=========================== NOTE ===========================
December 14, 2021, on page H7820 (second column), the following
appeared: Hagedorn (Moolenaar) Hartzler (DesJarlais) Hayes (Wild)
Hern (Lucas)Herrera Beutler (Rice (SC)) Horsford(Carter (LA))
Huffman(Levin (CA)) Jacobs (CA)------------------------
The online version has been corrected to read: Hagedorn
(Moolenaar) Hartzler (DesJarlais) Hayes (Wild) Hern (Lucas)
Herrera Beutler (Rice (SC)) Horsford (Carter (LA)) Huffman (Levin
(CA)) Jacobs (CA) (Correa)
========================= END NOTE =========================
____________________