well, hello south dakota greetings from montana. i am honored to be here as neighbors to be part of this great rally. and i will say let me start off by saying this. you have a great governor here as south dakota named kristi nome. i had a chance to serve the kristi back when she was in washington. i knew there was something real special there. and people are moving to south dakota not just because of your great quality of life and fesence. it is also because of quality of leadership. but i got to tell you when i fly back to dc i flew back home to montana last night and then came over here this afternoon. in washington i have a small little apartment. i do not have a car back there. i cannot stand traveling on tantan kid. i walk to work every day. i have got about a five or six block walk to capitol hill. it gives you time to think every morning. and i was thinking the other day what would be like in january of 2025? when, as i am walking to work my grandma always told me counter blessings. i am thankful for our four children, our five soon to be six grandchildren. but i got to tell you i am going to be saying a thankful prayer saying thank god joe biden is no longer president of the united states. so before i got elected congress i had a legitimate day job in business. i am the son of a u.s. marine from montana. and i have now been in washington hard to believe 11 years. i will tell you something. the best four years of my time in washington was when president trump was in the oval office. think about what happened in that short period of time. we cut taxes. one of the biggest tax cuts in our nation's history. we had a booming economy. president trump restored sanity to the supreme court. president trump also signed an law. the greatest conservation win in 50 years called the great america outdoors act. that was signed by president trump. we had low gas prices, lower cost groceries, a secure border back in those days. and we were respected on the world stage. think about what president trump did. he got the abraham accord sign. the most significant peace agreement in the middle east in a generation. he moved the embassy in israel from tel aviv to jerusalem. but compare that for a moment to joe biden. joe biden's energy policies. is to shut down made in america oil as we are all staring at $4 plus gas. shutting down made in american natural gas. and i think there is strategies to shut down oil and gas and replace it with chinese batteries. that is what they are doing. we have seen the highest inflation in 40 years. interest rates that we have not seen at this level in a generation. the botched afghanistan withdrawal. and then here's another one that hits close to home. so the chinese launched a spy balloon. look, it came over montana first and it came over south dakota, i know. it came right over our intercontinental ballistic missiles. why did not they shoot it down? i told the president, i said, you shoot that down. the worst thing that happened, we might hit a cow or a mule deer or an antelope. but it was embarrassing. and it made the united states look weak, weak on the world stage. and look, when you have got adversaries in places like china, north korea, iran, russia, look, they exploit weakness. in conclusion, one of the responses i have been given in this election cycle is to win back the majority in the united states senate and to gavilline a chuck schumer's hands. remember something, when president trump is elected in november of 24, the first call he will make is to the united states senate because he is got to move his cabinet officials through and are founding fathers gave that responsibility to the united states senate. imagine for a moment we are not in majority control and he is calling chuck schumer, it would be a disaster. so that is why we are working really hard to win the majority back. and i will tell you, there is three states, three states will decide the majority. it is west virginia, it is montana, and it is ohio. those three states all have democrats up in states where every single elected official in those three states are now republicans. so if you are a democrat in that state and you are trying to run for election in the united states senate, get ready because we are coming for you. we are. now i have got one final question i need to ask. there is a lot of polls going on out there. some are fake polls, many are fake polls. but let me tell you, i got to ask you all a question. if the election were held today between joe biden and donald j. trump, how many of you voting for donald j. trump? well, the president's smiling right now backstage, i know that for sure. thank you. and i will just say i am looking forward to working together here to make america great again. thank you and god bless.