the zubamontana. i will tell you what a night like tonight. this is a moment we say, thank god we get to call montana home. and you know this is also a time where we can say this, thank god, a hillary clinton is not present for the united states. this is also a time when we can say, thank god, justice, cabinet is on the u.s. and we can say this, thank god, air force 1 is going to be landing right here behind me. i am so thankful that president trump is the president of this great nation. thanks to president trump, we have more jobs now and we have less government. but 19 days from today, there will be an election. and if you saw what happened in that battle in the u.s. senate over judge kevin, i understand why every senate vote matters. i understand why every election matters because how your u.s. senator and how your u.s. congressman votes it matters. when i go to work in washington dc on your behalf, i walk into a senate that is 51 republicans in 49 democrats. the republicans are so very, very thin. we need leaders back in washington who will stand with president trump versus working against president trump. now we are getting close to how long we let you share with you our really scary 5th. nancy pelosi has saved from the house. what do you mean another scary 5th? chuck schumer as the senate majority leader. let me tell you something. if that were to happen in this nation, we would have more government, higher taxes, fewer jobs, and there would be more liberal judges on the u.s. supreme court. let me tell you what montana needs. montana needs a u.s. senator, who will take cut taxes, not to raise them. montana needs a u.s. senator that will fight to keep your right to bear arms and not take it away. in fact, just between you and me, i would say we out of luck the u.s. senator that has an a rating for the nra. we need a senator in montana that will work with president trump to pass term limits that the band members from everlobe will leave office. and i will tell you what montana needs a u.s. senator that believes that congress cannot balance the budget they should not ever get paid when it is start right now. look at that landscape here behind you. we need a senator that will stop the radical environmentalists who are locking the senator of our force by washington. i will tell you what montana needs a u.s. senator who is going to secure our borders. who is going to stop the flow of math and illegal drugs imported across our border. they are destroying our communities right here in montana. we need a u.s. senator that will stand with president trump and bill. we need a u.s. senator and we need a u.s. congressman who believes in the rule of law not law rule. i will tell you what u.s. senator and the u.s. congressman who believes in results not resistance. now tell you what, i could use a u.s. senator to stand with me who would vote for a judge coming on and not against him. i think that tells me is montana needs matt rose and the ellen gregg jr. for today. now when i was in billings, the president trump was there last time, we did a poll. let us start that poll here tonight because we are just 19 days away from election. so let us do a poll here by a pause. so here's the first question. in the election we are held today, how many of you would vote for matt rose and dale for u.s. senator? i think that is very clear. if the election were held today, how many of you would vote for u.s. congressman craig g. n. morton? thank you. we will thank you. if you have not already voted, you have 50 ballots around. i was out at a little plenty of couple of days ago, just got our ballots here in the team. we will be voting here in the next 24 hours to get your ballots in. maybe you sure you vote.