[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 16 (Wednesday, January 27, 2016)]
[Senate]
[Pages S247-S248]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
WILDFIRE FUNDING AND FOREST MANAGEMENT
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent to enter into a
colloquy with the chairman of the Budget Committee, Senator Enzi of
Wyoming, and the chairman of the Agriculture Committee, Senator Roberts
of Kansas.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Last session, I came to the floor to speak about the
significant wildfire provisions we included in the Omnibus
appropriations bill, why Congress could not accept a flawed proposal
supported by this administration and a handful of Senators, and to
outline a path forward on this important issue in 2016.
As we begin consideration of the energy bill, I have come to the
floor to add further definition to that path forward. As many of you
know, wildfire budgeting and forest management overlap jurisdictionally
with several other Committees so I want to thank my colleagues,
Senators Enzi and Roberts, for joining me here.
In my view, the time has come to find real solutions to the
challenges we face in each of these areas. This crisis has gone on for
long enough. It has grown worse and worse. Our lands are burning.
Communities are being devastated. And it is time for Congress to act.
I want to start first with wildfire budgeting. For some time now,
Members of this Chamber have been talking past each other. Before we
can come up with a solution, we have to at least agree on the problem
we are trying to solve.
We have all been saying that we want to solve the problem of ``fire
borrowing''--the unsustainable practice of borrowing from non-fire
government programs so that fire response activities can continue when
wildfire suppression accounts are depleted.
One way to fix the problem of ``fire borrowing'' is to continue to
fully fund the predicable costs of wildfire suppression, the 10-year
rolling average, while allowing access to additional funds through a
limited cap adjustment when the agencies run out of suppression funds,
for the emergency and unpredictable costs of wildfire suppression.
Another issue relating to wildfire budgeting is the percentage of the
Forest Service's discretionary budget
[[Page S248]]
spent on wildfire. The Forest Service has said that it now spends
nearly half of its discretionary budget on wildfire. Some of our
colleagues and this administration have conflated the fire borrowing
problem with this budgeting issue. They have sought to shift
anticipated wildfire suppression costs off-budget to limit how much of
the Forest Service's discretionary budget is spent on fire with the
goal of ``freeing up'' dollars for other programs under the
discretionary cap.
Cap adjustments and budgeting generally are within your committee's
jurisdiction. I say to Senator Enzi. Have I properly characterized the
wildfire budgeting issues we are wrestling with?
Mr. ENZI. I agree with Senator Murkowski that fire borrowing has been
mischaracterized and conflated with the Forest Service's overall
concern about its discretionary budget. Although I recognize the fact
that the Forest Service has serious management challenges, consensus
doesn't exist in the Senate to adjust the caps so the Forest Service
can spend more money on other programs within its discretionary budget.
That said, Congress must find a fiscally responsible solution to
wildfire funding and fire borrowing. I welcome the opportunity to
review the fire borrowing issue in my committee and how the
unpredictable costs of wildfire suppression have forced Congress to
appropriate emergency dollars in past years. We can find a solution to
budgeting for wildfires. We cannot, however, only work on the budget
issues without also making changes to the way we manage our forests. It
is crucial to ensure taxpayer dollars are being used efficiently and
effectively.
Just as there are many State, local, and Federal partners in the
field when it comes to suppressing wildfires during the fire season, it
is important that all the necessary committees in the Senate work
together on this issue. I look forward to addressing these issues with
Senator Murkowski and Senator Roberts, with my committee members, and
with other Western Senators interested in the outcome.
Mr. ROBERTS. Thank you to my colleagues, Senator Enzi and Senator
Murkowski, for their work on these important issues related to wildfire
and forest management. I would like to echo their concerns and share
with the rest of my colleagues that I agree with them entirely that
this is a critical issue that needs to be addressed. Coming off the end
of a catastrophic wildfire season with a record amount of acres burned,
it is essential that the Senate turn its attention to finding a
wildfire solution in 2016--and through regular order.
As chairman of the Agriculture Committee, it is my first and foremost
priority that the committee serve as the platform for America's
farmers, ranchers, small businesses, rural communities--and forest land
owners and forestry stakeholders, a constituency sometimes forgotten.
As chairman of the Agriculture Committee, we intend to serve and
represent all of agriculture, of which forestry plays an important
role.
Last November, the Agriculture Committee held a hearing on the
effects of wildfire and heard testimony from stakeholders on the
budgetary impacts and threats to natural resources on Federal, State,
and private forest lands. The message from that hearing was unanimous
and clear: it is time for Congress to act and advocate for solutions
that not only address funding fixes, but more importantly advocate for
solutions that improve the management of our national forests.
H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015, which passed
the House last summer, has been referred to the Senate Agriculture
Committee. This legislation, while not perfect, includes provisions
that attempt to address both the funding mechanism and incorporate
meaningful forest management tools which are the paramount issues in
the overall wildfire debate. I recognize the challenges that remain
ahead with crafting such a legislative proposal that satisfies all
interested parties involved in this larger debate. With that being
said, I stand ready to work with my colleagues to find areas where
common ground and consensus can be achieved to address the overall
wildfire issues facing us today.
I look forward to working together with Senator Murkowski, Senator
Enzi, and others to provide the necessary tools to expedite the much
needed work on not just Western forests, but also nationwide,
encompassing Federal, State, and private forest lands.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. I thank Senator Roberts. I look forward to working
with him as well. And he is right. The wildfire problem is not just a
budgeting problem--it is also a management problem. Reforming the way
we manage our forests is absolutely crucial. Healthy, resilient forests
are fire-resistant forests; yet despite knowing the value of fuel
reduction treatments in mitigating wildfire risks, increasing
firefighter safety, and protecting and restoring the health of our
forests, active management is still often met with a series of
discouraging and near insurmountable obstacles.
High upfront costs, long planning horizons, and regulatory
requirements--including what seem like unending environmental reviews--
are impeding our ability to implement treatments at the pace and scale
these wildfires are occurring. We must also work with our State
agencies, local communities, and the public to increase community
preparedness and install fuel breaks to break up fuel connectivity to
keep fires small.
As you can see here, the chairmen of the committees with jurisdiction
over the wildfire budgeting and forest management issues are ready to
roll up our sleeves in 2016. We are going to work through regular
order, in a transparent and collaborative manner, to come up with a
legislative solution.
We look forward to the input of our colleagues, who also care deeply
about these issues. My plan is to dedicate whatever time we have in
February after this bill clears the floor--and the entire month of
March--to producing this legislative product. I appreciate Members'
willingness to work with us and believe we are on a good track to find
real solutions to our wildfire challenges.
____________________