San Diego, CA –
Today, Rep. Scott Peters hosted a roundtable with local nonprofit and government leaders to discuss the nation’s affordability crisis as families struggle to afford groceries and other critical bills this Thanksgiving.
The cost of everything from food and household goods to healthcare, housing, childcare and electricity continue to rise. In California alone, families have spent
over $1,100 more
on the same items each month since President Trump took office.
According to the Department of Agriculture and the Bureau of Labor Statistics
, turkey prices are up 40 percent from last year, beef prices are up 15 percent, and even canned vegetables are up 5 percent. And drastic SNAP and Medi-Cal funding cuts in Republicans’ “Big Beautiful Bill” will soon make it even harder for families to afford health insurance and basic groceries.
“President Trump says he ‘doesn’t want to hear about affordability,’ but I do,”
said Rep. Peters.
“During Thanksgiving and the holiday season, families should be focused on time with loved ones, enjoying cherished traditions, and recharging for the year ahead. Instead, far too many San Diegans are worried about how they’re going to afford their bills and everyday expenses. Congress and the President must tackle the high cost of living.”
Rep. Peters brought together community leaders who spoke about how President Trump’s economic policies are raising prices for hard-working San Diegans and straining the services their organizations provide.
"We're grateful to Congressman Scott Peters for visiting Feeding San Diego today and listening to the challenges nonprofits are facing. The rising cost of living is driving more families to seek food assistance, particularly as the holidays approach. It will take all of us working together to support the thousands of children, seniors, and military families who depend on Feeding San Diego,"
said Robert Kamensky, CEO, Feeding San Diego
“The San Diego Food Bank is seeing growing demand as the cost of basic necessities rises. Seniors are choosing between food and medicine, and military families are struggling to afford essentials like diapers. Recent policy changes will also reduce SNAP benefits for about 100,000 San Diegans. We are committed to meeting this challenge and ensuring every neighbor has access to nutritious food,”
said Casey Castillo, CEO, San Diego Food Bank
“Every day, we hear from San Diegans who are struggling to afford food, healthcare, and basic necessities. With new federal cuts approaching, this need will only increase. At 211 San Diego, our focus is to make sure people can still access the services that keep them stable — and that our partners across the region can respond together. This moment calls for coordination, compassion, and strong community leadership,”
said Bill York, President and CEO, 211 San Diego.
“The affordability crisis is in every aspect of life and likely to impact the health outcomes of many Californians. When families are having trouble budgeting for day-to-day needs, budgeting for healthcare emergencies is out of the conversation. And with the impending loss of insurance coverage for millions of Californians, members of our community will delay care for easily preventable illnesses, get sicker, and further put financial strain on both families and healthcare providers when health conditions inevitably worsen. Emergency rooms will become even more overburdened. Families of all backgrounds will emerge sicker and economically worse off,”
said
Briana Cardoza, Chief Business Development Officer, TrueCare
“Safety net programs such as CalFresh and Medi-Cal help support our most vulnerable residents.  About 1.4 million San Diegans, or one in three residents, rely on safety net programs to meet their basic needs to provide housing, healthcare, and food for their families. The majority of the households we support are vulnerable populations, including working families with children, seniors and individuals with disabilities. Cutting safety net programs puts many vulnerable residents at risk of not being able to meet their basic needs,”
said
Assmaa Elayyat, Deputy Director of Self-Sufficiency Services, San Diego County
Access to affordable, high-quality childcare has never been more vital. It’s the foundation of early learning and family well-being, and it fuels economic stability in entire communities. That stability is now at risk, as mixed-status families face reduced resources, the early childhood workforce is stretched thin, and changes to the childcare tax benefit add new uncertainty for families,”
said Kim McDougal, Chief Impact Officer, YMCA
“On top of tariffs and the One Big Beautiful Bill threatening healthcare and food security, the administration is now proposing drastic funding changes at HUD. These cuts would strip critical resources from supportive services and building affordable homes at the very moment communities need them most. Redirecting funds away from long-term solutions means fewer families will find stability and many people who are housed today could be pushed back into homelessness,”
said
Zach Schlagel, Senior Director of Public Policy, PATH
Rep. Peters continues to do everything in his power to make it easier for San Diego families to make ends meet. He voted against the disastrous One Big Beautiful Bill Act because it will force millions of Americans off their health insurance, cut food assistance for hungry families, wipe away clean energy investments, and add trillions to the national debt.  He has introduced the
Build More Housing Near Transit Act
and the
Faith in Housing Act
to address the housing shortage, the
Providing Childcare for Police Officers Act
to increase childcare options for those who work irregular hours, and he is working to extend critical Affordable Care Act subsidies to prevent 28,000 CA50 residents from paying higher health insurance premiums and out-of-pocket caps.
Additional photos from the event are available courtesy of Rep. Peters’ office
here
.
###