[congressional record volume 162, number 1 (monday, january 4, 2016)] [extensions of remarks] [pages e1-e2] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] honoring cliff koroll ______ hon. mike quigley of illinois in the house of representatives monday, january 4, 2016 mr. quigley. mr. speaker, i rise today to recognize cliff koroll, a chicago blackhawks legend. cliff koroll is a canadian ukrainian born in canora, saskatchewan, canada. he played his youth hockey for the saskatoon wesleys and helped them win a provincial championship. cliff continued his education with his childhood friend keith magnuson at the university of denver. both players were standouts and were key factors in winning the ncaa championship for denver university. both cliff koroll and keith magnuson signed with the blackhawks in 1969. cliff played 11 seasons in the nhl, all with the chicago blackhawks and became their assistant coach for six seasons. i believe cliff to be one of the proudest players to wear the blackhawks sweater. cliff is the current president of the chicago blackhawks alumni association, a group of retired blackhawks players that give back to the chicago community. throughout the hard work and dedication of the late president, keith magnuson, and other key individuals, the chicago blackhawks alumni association has become a huge success, giving over one million dollars in college scholarships to the most deserving high school hockey players in illinois. the group is also very supportive of the ronald mcdonald house. cliff has also been supportive to the chicago legal clinic, which has a thirty-four year history of providing legal services to the poor and elderly in the chicago area. while serving a host of legal needs, the clinic focuses on vulnerable populations, such as immigrants, the disabled, victims of domestic violence, those facing foreclosure, children in the midst of divorce, consumers with serious debt issues, and those confronting urban environmental problems. cliff has been inducted into the saskatchewan sports hall of fame, saskatoon sports hall of fame, the chicago sports hall of fame, illinois amateur hockey hall of fame, the university of denver hall of fame, and the ukrainian national museum in chicago. i ask my colleagues to join me in honoring and celebrating his work and accomplishments. senate committee meetings title iv of senate resolution 4, agreed to by the senate of february 4, 1977, calls for establishment of a system for a computerized schedule of all meetings and hearings of senate committees, subcommittees, joint committees, and committees of conference. this title requires all such committees to notify the office of the senate daily digest--designated by the rules committee--of the time, place and purpose of the meetings, when scheduled and any cancellations or changes in the meetings as they occur. as an additional procedure along with the computerization of this information, the office of the senate daily digest will prepare this information for printing in the extensions of remarks section of the congressional record on monday and wednesday of each week. meetings scheduled for tuesday, january 5, 2016 may be found in the daily digest of today's record. [[page e2]] meetings scheduled january 12 10 a.m. committee on armed services to hold hearings to examine defense health care reform. sd-g50 committee on health, education, labor, and pensions business meeting to consider the nomination of robert mckinnon califf, of south carolina, to be commissioner of food and drugs, department of health and human services. sd-430 january 20 2:30 p.m. committee on armed services subcommittee on readiness and management support to hold an oversight hearing to examine task force for business and stability operations projects in afghanistan. sr-232a