[congressional record volume 170, number 36 (wednesday, february 28, 2024)] [house] [pages h721-h722] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] doe and sba research act mr. williams of texas. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 4669) to provide for department of energy, national laboratories, and small business administration joint research and development activities, and for other purposes, as amended. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 4669 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``doe and sba research act''. sec. 2. department of energy and small business administration joint research and development activities. (a) in general.--the secretary of energy and the administrator of the small business administration (in this section referred to as the ``covered officials'') shall enter into a memorandum of understanding or other appropriate agreement to carry out cross-cutting and collaborative research and development activities focused on the joint advancement of department of energy and small business administration mission requirements and priorities. (b) memorandum of understanding or agreement.--the covered officials shall carry out and coordinate the activities described in subsection (a) by entering into one or more memoranda of understanding or other appropriate agreements, as jointly determined by the covered officials. (c) inclusion of small business concerns.--in carrying out the activities described in subsection (a), the covered officials shall ensure the inclusion of small business concerns (as defined under section 3 of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 632)) in such activities, as appropriate. (d) other requirements.--in carrying out the activities described in subsection (a), the covered officials may-- (1) carry out reimbursable agreements between the department of energy, the small business administration, and appropriate entities in order to maximize the effectiveness of research and development activities carried out pursuant to a memorandum or agreement described in subsection (b); and (2) collaborate with other federal agencies as appropriate to carry out such activities. (e) report.--not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this act, the covered officials shall submit to congress a report on activities carried out pursuant to a memorandum or agreement described in subsection (b) that includes the following: (1) coordination between the covered officials involved in such activities. (2) potential opportunities to expand the technical capabilities of the department of energy and the small business administration. (3) collaborative research achievements. (4) areas of future mutually beneficial success. (5) continuation of coordination activities between the department of energy and the small business administration. (f) research security.--the activities carried out pursuant to a memorandum or agreement described in subsection (b) shall be applied in a manner consistent with subtitle d of title vi of the research and development, competition, and innovation act (public law 117-167; 42 u.s.c. 19231 et seq.). sec. 3. compliance with cutgo. no additional amounts are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this act or the amendments made by this act. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from texas (mr. williams) and the gentlewoman from new york (ms. velazquez) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from texas. general leave mr. williams of texas. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on the bill. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from texas? there was no objection. mr. williams of texas. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of h.r. 4669, the doe and sba research act, sponsored by my good friend, representative lalota, from the great state of new york. our national laboratories provide some of the most cutting-edge scientific research initiated by the u.s. government. the 17 national labs across the country help ensure we remain world leaders in a variety of disciplines, including our nation's self-defense. this legislation will ensure that the great work of our national labs and sba are ensuring small businesses can play a part in these crucial activities. small businesses play an important role in american innovation. the committee on small business has heard countless testimonies from entrepreneurs who have found inefficiencies in many different industries and have since gone to work fixing these problems. this is very similar to the work of our national labs as this bill, establishing a memorandum of understanding, will prove mutually beneficial to both parties. the doe and sba research act is vital to increasing the opportunities that innovative small businesses must work with some of the most innovative federally funded research organizations in the world. mr. speaker, i urge all of my colleagues to join me in voting for h.r. 4669, and i reserve the balance of my time. house of representatives, committee on science, space, and technology washington, dc, december 1, 2023. hon. roger williams, chairman, committee on small business, house of representatives, washington, dc. dear chairman williams: i am writing concerning h.r. 4669, the ``doe and sba research act'', which was referred primarily to the committee on science, space, and technology, with an additional referral to the committee on small business. h.r. 4669 contains provisions within the committee on science, space, and technology's rule x jurisdiction. as a result of your having consulted with the committee and in order to expedite this bill for floor consideration, the committee on science, space, and technology will forego action on the bill. this is being done on the basis of our mutual understanding that doing so will in no way diminish or alter the jurisdiction of the committee on science, space, and technology with respect to the appointment of conferees, or to any future jurisdictional claim over the subject matters contained in the bill or similar legislation. i would appreciate your response to this letter confirming this understanding, and would request that you include a copy of this letter and your response in in the congressional record during the floor consideration of this bill. thank you in advance for your cooperation. sincerely, frank d. lucas, chairman. ____ house of representatives, committee on small business, washington, dc, december 1, 2023. hon. frank lucas, chairman, committee on science, space, and technology, house of representatives, washington, dc. dear chairman lucas: thank you for your letter regarding h.r. 4669, the doe and sba research act. i appreciate your willingness to work cooperatively to ensure that h.r. 4669 is considered expeditiously before the house of representatives. i recognize that this bill contains provisions that fall within the jurisdiction of the committee on science, space, and technology. i also acknowledge that your committee's decision to forgo consideration would not prejudice your committee regarding the appointment of conferees, to any future jurisdictional claim over the subject matters contained in the bill, or to similar legislation falling under your committee's rule x jurisdiction. in addition, should a conference on this bill become necessary, i would support your request to have members of the committee on science, space, and technology represented on the conference committee. i will ensure that our exchange of letters is included the congressional record during consideration on the house floor. thank you again, i appreciate your cooperation regarding this legislation and look forward to continuing to work with you as this measure moves through the legislative process. sincerely, roger williams, chairman. ms. velazquez. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of h.r. 4669, as amended. this legislation would allow sba and the department of energy to enter into an mou to formalize the research and [[page h722]] development activities that are currently under way. investments in r&d are critical to providing high-paying jobs for americans, increasing small business innovation, and ensuring our country remains competitive. mr. speaker, i thank mr. lalota and mr. thanedar for their bipartisan work, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. williams of texas. mr. speaker, i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from new york (mr. lalota). mr. lalota. mr. speaker, i thank chairman williams for yielding and for his leadership on the small business committee. mr. speaker, i rise to speak in support of my bill, the bipartisan doe and sba research act. the doe and sba research act would simply require the small business administration and america's 17 national labs to collaborate to ensure that small businesses are better utilized within the department of energy procurement process. the department of energy is one of the largest procurers of small business goods and services in the government. through the doe's national laboratories, small businesses can play a critical role in executing the doe's mission. my district, which is home to one of these laboratories, brookhaven national lab, which is leading the way by prioritizing working with small businesses, specifically bnl and suffolk county small businesses have created a mutually beneficial relationship based upon cooperative research and technical assistance. despite good intentions throughout the federal system, far too often small businesses have been made to endure tremendous frustrations related to federal contracting because the federal contracting process is incredibly complex and bureaucratic and plagued with many inconsistencies and nuances. some programs, such as the small business innovation research program, operate differently in each agency. this means a small business utilizing the same program may have to meet significantly different requirements from one agency to the next. my bill, the doe and sba research act, seeks to remedy this problem. a small business' work with the federal government can be a frustrating maze, and this bipartisan bill will help bring existing resources and opportunities to innovative and successful small businesses. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to support the doe and sba research act. mr. williams of texas. mr. speaker, i have no further speakers. i am ready to close, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. velazquez. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time to close. mr. speaker, small businesses produce more than 14 times more patents than large businesses and universities and employ nearly 40 percent of scientists and engineers. enhancing coordination between the small business administration and the department of energy will hopefully increase opportunities for small businesses. mr. speaker, i thank the sponsors for their work, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. williams of texas. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this commonsense legislation from mr. thanedar and mr. lalota, and i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from texas (mr. williams) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 4669, as amended. the question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed. the title of the bill was amended so as to read: ``a bill to provide for department of energy and small business administration joint research and development activities, and for other purposes.''. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. ____________________