[congressional record volume 162, number 6 (monday, january 11, 2016)] [house] [pages h244-h246] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] grants oversight and new efficiency act mr. chaffetz. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (s. 1115) to close out expired grants. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: s. 1115 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``grants oversight and new efficiency act'' or the ``gone act''. sec. 2. identifying and closing out expired federal grant awards. (a) expired federal grant award report.-- (1) in general.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the director of the office of management and budget shall instruct the head of each agency, in coordination with the secretary, to submit to congress and the secretary a report, not later than december 31 of the first calendar year beginning after the date of the enactment of this act, that-- (a) lists each federal grant award held by such agency; (b) provides the total number of federal grant awards, including the number of grants-- (i) by time period of expiration; (ii) with zero dollar balances; and (iii) with undisbursed balances; [[page h245]] (c) for an agency with federal grant awards, describes the challenges leading to delays in grant closeout; and (d) for the 30 oldest federal grant awards of an agency, explains why each federal grant award has not been closed out. (2) use of data systems.--an agency may use existing multiagency data systems in order to submit the report required under paragraph (1). (3) explanation of missing information.--if the head of an agency is unable to submit all of the information required to be included in the report under paragraph (1), the report shall include an explanation of why the information was not available, including any shortcomings with and plans to improve existing grant systems, including data systems. (b) notice from agencies.-- (1) in general.--not later than 1 year after the date on which the head of an agency submits the report required under subsection (a), the head of such agency shall provide notice to the secretary specifying whether the head of the agency has closed out grant awards associated with all of the federal grant awards in the report and which federal grant awards in the report have not been closed out. (2) notice to congress.--not later than 90 days after the date on which all of the notices required pursuant to paragraph (1) have been provided or march 31 of the calendar year following the calendar year described in subsection (a)(1), whichever is sooner, the secretary shall compile the notices submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) and submit to congress a report on such notices. (c) inspector general review.--not later than 1 year after the date on which the head of an agency provides notice to congress under subsection (b)(2), the inspector general of an agency with more than $500,000,000 in annual grant funding shall conduct a risk assessment to determine if an audit or review of the agency's grant closeout process is warranted. (d) report on accountability and oversight.--not later than 6 months after the date on which the second report is submitted pursuant to subsection (b)(2), the director of office of management and budget, in consultation with the secretary, shall submit to congress a report on recommendations, if any, for legislation to improve accountability and oversight in grants management, including the timely closeout of a federal grant award. (e) definitions.--in this section: (1) agency.--the term ``agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, united states code. (2) closeout.--the term ``closeout'' means a closeout of a federal grant award conducted in accordance with part 200 of title 2, code of federal regulations, including sections 200.16 and 200.343 of such title, or any successor thereto. (3) federal grant award.--the term ``federal grant award'' means a federal grant award (as defined in section 200.38(a)(1) of title 2, code of federal regulations, or any successor thereto), including a cooperative agreement, in an agency cash payment management system held by the united states government for which-- (a) the grant award period of performance, including any extensions, has been expired for more than 2 years; and (b) closeout has not yet occurred in accordance with section 200.343 of title 2, code of federal regulations, or any successor thereto. (4) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of health and human services. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from utah (mr. chaffetz) and the gentlewoman from the district of columbia (ms. norton) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from utah. general leave mr. chaffetz. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous materials on the bill under consideration. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from utah? there was no objection. mr. chaffetz. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i really want to, first, thank senator fischer for the great work done in a bipartisan way in order to move this bill forward. that combination, working with a member who serves on our committee, mr. walberg, and the relentless work on this piece of legislation, it is often referred to as the gone act, grants oversight and new efficiency act. it is a good piece of bipartisan, bicameral legislative effort. i believe the bill will be effective in bringing about greater reforms for the grants closeout process, allowing agencies to save dollars and make better use of constrained resources. we cannot afford to allow grants to remain open year after year of their expiration date. the gone act is an important step in addressing this issue. again, i want to thank the gentleman from michigan for championing this bill and working through this through his work on h.r. 3089, as well as working with the senate in order to bring it to this point this day. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. norton. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, the bill before us, the grants oversight and new efficiency act, or gone act--and i like that name, it is a very catchy name, and you will see why in a moment--it seeks to improve the grant management process by requiring federal agencies to report on expired grants. the government accountability office has found that expired grants are not always closed out properly. in fact, gao found that nearly $1 billion in undisbursed balances remained in expired and dormant grant accounts; therefore, the gone act's name. but, mr. speaker, i would call this found money, not gone money. it is still there. improving the grant closeout process will help protect taxpayer dollars and ensure that those dollars can be redirected to better uses. this act may also incline agencies and localities to use funds they have asked for. this legislation would require agencies to report to the secretary of health and human services and to congress on the number of expired grants and those with undisbursed balances. for the oldest expired grants, agencies will need to explain why those grants have not been closed. the bill would also require agencies to report a year after the initial report on progress made on grant closure. hopefully, this increased accountability will bring improvement to grant management. i commend representatives walberg and lawrence for their work on this bipartisan, commonsense legislation. i reserve the balance of my time. {time} 1700 mr. chaffetz. mr. speaker, i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from michigan (mr. walberg), who is the lead person sponsoring this piece of legislation here in the house companion. mr. walberg. mr. speaker, i thank the chairman. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of s. 1115, the grants oversight and new efficiency act, or as we call it, the gone act. as the lead house sponsor of this bill, i am proud of the bipartisan, bicameral effort that has gone into this legislation. i especially want to thank the senate champion of this bill, my colleague in the senate, senator deb fischer, and also my michigan colleague, congresswoman brenda lawrence, along with the staff who have worked so hard to bring this bill to the floor today. last year, we marked up this legislation in the oversight and government reform committee and passed it on to the house floor. after some additional fine-tuning made by our colleagues in the senate, i am pleased to have the opportunity to see the gone act take the final step toward becoming law. even as we debate this bill today, the federal government is racking up service fees to administer thousands of expired empty grant accounts--costing taxpayers millions of dollars per year. i introduced the gone act to bring some common sense to the grant management process and require federal agencies to finally take action to identify these accounts with a zero balance which should be closed out. specifically, the gone act will direct agencies to work with the department of health and human services to identify the total number of grant awards that remain open but have been expired for 2 years or more. hhs was chosen for this role because of the work it has done in closing out expired accounts--good work--and for its role as the agency which houses the payment management system. in addition to the total number of expired grants, the bill requires each agency to explain to congress why the 30 oldest grants that remain open have not been closed. the bill also directs inspectors general for certain larger grant-making agencies to conduct a risk assessment to determine if a further review of that agency's grant [[page h246]] closeout process is necessary. all of this information will give agencies and congress valuable insight into issues that agencies face when it comes to a timely closeout of grants. it is my hope that this information will inform future efforts to streamline the grant's lifecycle, specifically the closeout process. in fact, s. 1115 requires omb and hhs to submit a report to congress on potential legislative reforms that are necessary to improve the grants lifecycle. i look forward to hearing from omb and hhs on this topic, and i thank those agencies for the feedback they have offered on this bill. for months, members of the house and senate on both sides of the aisle have worked to develop this bill into one that will serve to advance the efficiency of the grants process. omb, hhs, and the inspector general community have all provided helpful comments as we worked to finalize this legislation, and i am grateful for their assistance. mr. speaker, spending taxpayer dollars on expired and empty grant accounts is the definition of government waste. i urge my colleagues to support this bill today and send the gone act to the president's desk. ms. norton. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. chaffetz. mr. speaker, it is a good bipartisan bill. i urge its passage. i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from utah (mr. chaffetz) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, s. 1115. the question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the rules were suspended and the bill was passed. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. ____________________