[congressional record volume 170, number 40 (wednesday, march 6, 2024)] [house] [pages h830-h831] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] honoring colleen pobur the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from michigan (ms. stevens) for 5 minutes. ms. stevens. mr. speaker, i rise today to shine a spotlight on a truly extraordinary woman, my good friend and amazing district chief of staff, colleen pobur. today is colleen's birthday, and i am delighted to recognize her on this special occasion. colleen is not only a leader in my office, but she is a leader in oakland county, michigan, and throughout the metro detroit region. as a lifelong michiganian, colleen is a proud, if not the proudest, graduate of the university of michigan. she graduated with a degree in french and obtained the ability to speak the language fluently. of course, she has an undying passion for michigan football. whether in the stadium or in her living room, she can be found avidly cheering on the wolverines during every single game and, of course, adorning her u of m paraphernalia. suffice to say, last fall was a pretty good one for colleen when the u of m wolverines were the undefeated champions. since graduating, in reality, if not in spirit, colleen has spent her extraordinary career making life better for the people of michigan. colleen's contributions as a businesswoman and a public servant are truly too numerous to count, but here are just a few. if you have ever flown through the detroit airport and gotten something to eat, that is thanks to colleen, who developed the award- winning buffet of concession options at dtw. if you have ever had a beer in michigan, that is thanks to colleen. she kept bars open and legally serving after being appointed by governor jennifer granholm to the michigan liquor control commission. of course, if you are a constituent in michigan's 11th district and have ever had a federal government case solved, well, that is thanks to colleen, who oversees our exceptional casework program and has helped the team return thousands of dollars to michiganders' [[page h831]] pockets. yes, she even regularly picks up the phone in our office to engage and talk with constituents directly. no task is too big or too small for colleen. colleen has also worked in the private sector where she served as vice president of strategic public affairs and as director of the new product launch strategies for the compuware corporation, as well as the director of external relations and economic development for ameritech michigan. colleen has also worked tirelessly to represent her community as a member of the plymouth city commission for over a decade, in addition to chairing the plymouth's brownfield redevelopment authority, serving on the plymouth economic development corp, and overseeing the fire department that serves the communities of northville and plymouth. if there is an arcane or overly complicated municipal precedent, colleen has the ability to explain it and already knows all about it. when she is not making oakland county run, colleen is also a mom to college-age twins, caroline and will. whether visiting caroline in england or cheering on will at a game, colleen is a woman on the move. she is a dedicated friend, sister, and public servant. she is whip smart and has a one-liner for every situation. she makes us all laugh regularly and makes sure we are up to date on michigan sports stats. she is truly a renaissance woman, a role model, and a leader. colleen's drive and dedication to oakland county are unmatched. she is clearly not someone to rest on her laurels. she has a heart for michigan and a head for business, and i could not be luckier that she is on my team. i truly could not imagine these terms in congress without her counsel, advice, and willingness to talk to me on the phone or in person, no matter the hour. mr. speaker, i say to colleen on her special day, from all of us in oakland county and here in the congress, happy birthday. as the washington post or the wall street journal has recognized people born in her birth year, she continues to redefine norms and transform society. here's to many more years of making life just a little bit better for the people of michigan. ____________________