[congressional record volume 162, number 6 (monday, january 11, 2016)] [house] [pages h247-h249] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] presidential library donation reform act of 2016 mr. chaffetz. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 1069) to amend title 44, united states code, to require information on contributors to presidential library fundraising organizations, and for other purposes, as amended. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 1069 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``presidential library donation reform act of 2016''. sec. 2. presidential libraries. (a) in general.--section 2112 of title 44, united states code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: ``(h) presidential library fundraising organization reporting requirement.-- ``(1) reporting requirement.--not later than 15 days after the end of a calendar quarter and until the end of the requirement period described in paragraph (2), each presidential library fundraising organization shall submit to the archivist information for that quarter in an electronic searchable and sortable format with respect to every contributor who gave the organization a contribution or contributions (whether monetary or in-kind) totaling $200 or more for the quarterly period. [[page h248]] ``(2) duration of reporting requirement.--the requirement to submit information under paragraph (1) shall continue until the later of the following occurs: ``(a) the archivist has accepted, taken title to, or entered into an agreement to use any land or facility for the presidential archival depository for the president for whom the presidential library fundraising organization was established. ``(b) the president whose archives are contained in the deposit no longer holds the office of president. ``(3) information required to be published.--the archivist shall publish on the website of the national archives and records administration, within 30 days after each quarterly filing, any information that is submitted under paragraph (1), without a fee or other access charge in a downloadable database. ``(4) submission of false material information prohibited.-- ``(a) individual.-- ``(i) prohibition.--it shall be unlawful for any person who makes a contribution described in paragraph (1) to knowingly and willfully submit false material information or omit material information with respect to the contribution to an organization described in such paragraph. ``(ii) penalty.--the penalties described in section 1001 of title 18, united states code, shall apply with respect to a violation of clause (i) in the same manner as a violation described in such section. ``(b) organization.-- ``(i) prohibition.--it shall be unlawful for any presidential library fundraising organization to knowingly and willfully submit false material information or omit material information under paragraph (1). ``(ii) penalty.--the penalties described in section 1001 of title 18, united states code, shall apply with respect to a violation of clause (i) in the same manner as a violation described in such section. ``(5) prohibition on contribution.-- ``(a) in general.--it shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly and willfully-- ``(i) make a contribution described in paragraph (1) in the name of another person; ``(ii) permit his or her name to be used to effect a contribution described in paragraph (1); or ``(iii) accept a contribution described in paragraph (1) that is made by one person in the name of another person. ``(b) penalty.--the penalties set forth in section 309(d) of the federal election campaign act of 1971 (2 u.s.c. 437g(d)) shall apply to a violation of subparagraph (a) in the same manner as if such violation were a violation of section 316(b)(3) of such act (2 u.s.c. 441b(b)(3)). ``(6) regulations required.--the archivist shall promulgate regulations for the purpose of carrying out this subsection. ``(7) definitions.--in this subsection: ``(a) information.--the term `information' means the following: ``(i) the amount or value of each contribution made by a contributor referred to in paragraph (1) in the quarter covered by the submission. ``(ii) the source of each such contribution, and the address of the entity or individual that is the source of the contribution. ``(iii) if the source of such a contribution is an individual, the occupation of the individual. ``(iv) the date of each such contribution. ``(b) presidential library fundraising organization.--the term `presidential library fundraising organization' means an organization that is established for the purpose of raising funds for creating, maintaining, expanding, or conducting activities at-- ``(i) a presidential archival depository; or ``(ii) any facilities relating to a presidential archival depository.''. (b) applicability.--section 2112(h) of title 44, united states code (as added by subsection (a))-- (1) shall apply to an organization established for the purpose of raising funds for creating, maintaining, expanding, or conducting activities at a presidential archival depository or any facilities relating to a presidential archival depository before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this act; and (2) shall only apply with respect to contributions (whether monetary or in-kind) made after the date of the enactment of this act. sec. 3. no additional funds authorized. no additional funds are authorized to carry out the requirements of this act and the amendments made by this act. such requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from utah (mr. chaffetz) and the gentlewoman from the district of columbia (ms. norton) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from utah. general leave mr. chaffetz. i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on the bill under consideration. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from utah? there was no objection. mr. chaffetz. mr. speaker, i yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from tennessee (mr. duncan), the gentleman who has championed this issue as the prime sponsor. mr. duncan of tennessee. mr. speaker, i thank chairman chaffetz for his support and for yielding me this time. this is a bill that has passed in three separate congresses with overwhelming bipartisan support and very, very little opposition. in fact, in this congress, it is cosponsored by ranking member elijah cummings. in past congresses, it has been cosponsored by ranking member edolphus towns; and in one congress, chairman waxman became the primary sponsor. so it is a very bipartisan bill. it is a very simple bill, one that i think can be supported by anyone who is opposed to secrecy in government and believes in an open, transparent system. the presidential library donation reform act simply requires that donations to a president's library greater than $200 be disclosed to the public and posted online. it is very surprising to people that there are no laws governing these donations at this time. in fact, any person, corporation, or foreign government can donate any amount, unreported, while a president is still in office. i first introduced this bill in the 106th congress after reading a front-page story in the washington times reporting that foreign governments from the middle east were making very large donations to the proposed library for president clinton. i was concerned about the influence of donations being made by foreign governments. however, i hasten to say this is not directed toward former president clinton or anyone else. this bill has been introduced and passed, and i have sponsored this bill under both republican and democratic presidents. i did read at one point that after i introduced this bill that president clinton's library had received a $450,000 contribution from the ex-wife of marc rich, who had fled the country to evade $40 million in taxes. so these types of things have certainly raised concern. in 2013, the sunlight foundation's policy director endorsed my bill during a hearing on federal government transparency in the house oversight and government reform committee, saying: ``it would provide valuable information on special interests whose donations put them in close proximity with presidents.'' {time} 1715 presidential libraries were once modest structures, but they have grown rapidly over the years into megamuseums devoted to a president's life and legacy. president george w. bush's library topped $500 million in costs. that is seven times the cost of his father's library. a recent report in the new york times noted that president obama's library could end up costing $1 billion. as costs soar, clearly there is potential for abuse, no matter who is president. this is, as i said, not a partisan issue. it is not directed at any president. it is simply a good government bill that i think almost everyone can support, and certainly they have in the past. i urge support for this legislation. ms. norton. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i support this bill, mr. speaker. i want to thank representative duncan and ranking member cummings for sponsoring this legislation. representative duncan first sponsored a bill to improve presidential libraries 16 years ago. what has happened that we cannot get this bill through the congress? i hope this bill this year will prove different. this congress, i hope we can finally get this important reform on the president's desk where i am sure it will be signed. the presidential library donation reform act would provide transparency to the process for building presidential libraries. the practice of creating a presidential library began decades ago with president franklin delano roosevelt. the tradition has carried on through every president since that time, and it is going to continue. presidential libraries have become increasingly more expensive as they [[page h249]] have evolved into multipurpose centers that do more than simply house presidential records. for example, the william j. clinton library cost an estimated $165 million, while the george w. bush presidential center cost an estimated $250 million to build, with president bush having raised approximately half a billion dollars for his library, museum, and institute. we can expect that with each new president, these libraries are going to cost more. that is just natural. under current law, there is no requirement to disclose the identities of those who donate to a presidential library, and a president is able to secure an unlimited amount of private donations while still in office. the bill before us would make a simple but very important change in existing law. under this bill, organizations that raise money to build presidential libraries would be required to disclose the identity of any individual who donates more than $200. it seems reasonable to me, mr. speaker. the national archives and records administration would then be required to post the donation information in a manner that is free to access and downloadable. additionally, this legislation would create criminal penalties for individuals who report false information on donations and for fundraising organizations that omit donation information. a group of 15 good government organizations, including citizens for responsibility and ethics in washington and the sunlight foundation, sent a letter urging the house to support this bill. here is what they wrote: ``under the current opaque system, presidents raise funds privately to establish their presidential libraries. these efforts, which often begin long before they leave office, are unregulated and undisclosed, creating opportunities for, or the appearance of, influence-peddling. improved transparency would help reduce the appearance of impropriety and help deter inappropriate behavior.'' the appearance is just as important as the behavior itself, i emphasize, mr. speaker. this bill was approved without opposition by the committee on oversight and government reform in march and has passed the house several times before. as i noted, companion legislation sponsored by senators corker and johnson was approved by the homeland security and governmental affairs committee earlier this year. it looks like this bill may become law after all, mr. duncan. i urge every member of this body to support transparency by voting for this important legislation. i yield back the balance of my time. mr. chaffetz. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i urge its passage. it is high time that this passed. it is bipartisan, it is bicameral, and it is done with some good leadership from mr. duncan. i urge its adoption. i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from utah (mr. chaffetz) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 1069, as amended. the question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. ____________________