[congressional record volume 170, number 40 (wednesday, march 6, 2024)] [house] [page h831] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] recognizing the life and legacy of pat o'toole the speaker pro tempore (mr. d'esposito). the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from wyoming (ms. hageman) for 5 minutes. ms. hageman. mr. speaker, i rise today to recognize the life and legacy of my friend, mr. pat o'toole, a wyoming cattle and sheep rancher and hay grower whose deeply rooted passion for agriculture and love for his community and state will never be forgotten. i first met pat when he served with my father in the wyoming house of representatives. he championed numerous agriculture issues during his time in the state legislature and with the many organizations that he was a part of. he worked with several governors' administrations to advocate for agriculture on the state level and testified before the u.s. house of representatives and u.s. senate on multiple occasions. pat was one of the first individuals to ever call my congressional office. he did so seeking help for farmers and ranchers in southwestern wyoming who were experiencing record amounts of snow and winter kill. because of his efforts working with state and federal leaders, a state of emergency was declared for the impacted area. pat, along with his wife, sharon, and their family, operated ladder ranch in the little snake river valley and were the recipients of the 2014 wyoming leopold environmental stewardship award. ladder ranch has been in sharon's family since 1881, 9 years before wyoming even became a state, and is an excellent tribute to the o'tooles' devotion to agriculture and conservation. pat loved his neighbors, cared for his community and state, and sacrificed his time to bless the lives of others. he passed away peacefully on february 25, leaving behind a legacy of selfless service that will be forever cherished by those who knew him. mr. speaker, i urge all my colleagues to join me in remembering the life of mr. pat o'toole. recognizing the life and legacy of nevada krinkee ms. hageman. mr. speaker, i rise today to recognize the life and legacy of sergeant nevada krinkee, a wyomingite who courageously defended our country and whose selfless service to his community will be remembered for generations. sergeant krinkee dedicated his life to serving others and was a proud member of the 82nd airborne division of the u.s. army during the global war on terrorism. during his 8 years in the army, sergeant krinkee earned the rank of staff sergeant and was awarded numerous accolades, including the afghanistan campaign medal, army commendation medal, army achievement medal, combat infantryman badge, and his jump master wings. following his time in the army, sergeant krinkee joined the sheridan police department as a patrol officer, where he quickly rose in the ranks to patrol sergeant. sergeant krinkee cared deeply for his community, our great state, his wife, karla, and daughter, bella. although bella may not remember her father, she will grow up knowing that his heroic actions protected the lives of all of those around her. sergeant krinkee's integrity, selflessness, and leadership will always be remembered by his colleagues and community. on february 13, sergeant krinkee tragically lost his life while serving and protecting his community. mr. speaker, i urge all my colleagues to join me in remembering the life of sergeant nevada krinkee. recognizing the life and legacy of kelly krause ms. hageman. mr. speaker, i rise today to recognize the life and legacy of mr. kelly krause, a wyomingite whose love for his neighbors and the culinary arts will continue to live on through all who knew him, just as wyoming will continue to cherish him for many years to come. kelly was a remarkable individual whose presence graced the lives of everyone he came across. kelly, along with his wife, lynette, owned a local jackson eatery called the virginian restaurant, where his passion for his community was evident by all who visited. he always greeted guests with a smile and made them feel as if they were right at home. on march 1, kelly tragically lost his life in a skiing accident. as his family, friends, and the jackson community mourn his passing, please know that my sincere prayers and thoughts are with you. mr. speaker, i urge all of my colleagues to join me in remembering the wonderful life of kelly krause and standing with his loved ones during these difficult times. recognizing the goshen county irrigation district ms. hageman. mr. speaker, i rise today to recognize goshen county irrigation district's 100 years of dedicated service to wyoming water users. the district covers hundreds of miles of laterals, drains, and canals and delivers water to over 52,000 acres of farmland in my state. it maintains and operates a portion of the fort laramie canal in partnership with the gering-fort laramie irrigation district, improving the lives of farmers, ranchers, and everyone who lives in the region. its work is absolutely vital to the prosperity of these local communities. unfortunately, in july of 2019, tunnel number 2 on the fort laramie canal collapsed, impacting more than 100,000 production acres in wyoming and nebraska and causing $89 million in economic impact. updating and repairing this collapsed tunnel has been an incredibly arduous process, and there is still so much more work to be done. however, goshen irrigation district was both resourceful and quick to respond. its efforts have helped wyoming to optimize water usage, balancing the needs of agriculture, industry, and the environment more effectively. it has been instrumental in mitigating the challenges of water in the west. mr. speaker, i urge all of my colleagues to join me in celebrating goshen irrigation district's 100 years of development and prosperity. ____________________