[congressional record volume 162, number 5 (friday, january 8, 2016)] [house] [pages h200-h210] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] fairness in class action litigation act of 2015 the committee resumed its sitting. amendment no. 10 offered by mr. nadler the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 10 printed in house report 114-389. mr. nadler. madam chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: beginning on page 2, strike line 5 and all that follows through line 2 on page 3, and insert the following: ``(8) a trust described in paragraph (2) shall file with the bankruptcy court, not later than 60 days after the end of every quarter, a report that shall be made available on the court's public docket and with respect to each such reporting period contains an aggregate list of demands received and an aggregate list of payments made.''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 581, the gentleman from new york (mr. nadler) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from new york. mr. nadler. madam chair, my amendment would address the bill's serious violation of the privacy of asbestos victims. instead of requiring asbestos trusts to disclose detailed personal information about asbestos victims, as the bill would do, my amendment would require aggregate reporting of the demands received and payments made by those trusts. this would ensure transparency of the trusts without jeopardizing the privacy of the victims. let us remember why these asbestos trusts are established in the first place. corporations that knowingly produced a toxic substance that killed or seriously injured unsuspecting american consumers and workers have since been held accountable for their practices through litigation. asbestos companies that enter bankruptcy have the option of establishing a trust to satisfy the obligations to their victims while shielding themselves from future claims when they emerge from bankruptcy. as if contracting a painful and life-threatening disease like lung cancer or mesothelioma from exposure to asbestos is not bad enough, this bill would further victimize claimants by putting their personal information on the internet, available to anyone who may seek to take advantage of them. the bill would require each asbestos trust to list the payment demands it has received, the amounts demanded, as well as the names and exposure histories of each claimant, along with the basis for any payment from the trust of such claimant. this information would be posted on the public docket of the court that established the trust, a docket that is easily accessible on the internet through paying a nominal fee. now, it is true that the reports required under this bill would not include any ``confidential medical record''--a term that is undefined-- or a claimant's full social security number, but with just the information that the bill requires to be provided, one can still learn a tremendous amount of sensitive health information about a victim. releasing such information is an invitation to scam artists, to identity thieves, as well as to data brokers who may use the information collected to deny employment or credit or insurance to the victims. to prevent this totally unnecessary and wrong invasion of privacy, my amendment would say, okay, we will release aggregate data from the trust sufficient to ensure transparency and to combat the imagined fraud claimed by supporters of the bill, but we will not expose the personal information of asbestos victims and make them vulnerable to further victimization. rather than standing with the corporations supporting this legislation, which spent decades poisoning americans with asbestos, i urge my colleagues to stand with susan vento, a fierce opponent of this bill and the widow of our former colleague bruce vento, who lost his life due to asbestos exposure. stand with the many organizations opposing this bill that do not wish to see asbestos victims' personal information compromised. stand with the victims who have suffered enough. if you believe there is fraud, fine. the amendment would say present the aggregate information which would prevent or reveal the fraud, but do not further victimize the victims by putting their personal information on the internet so that they can be further victimized in their privacy, and in reality they can be victimized by scam artists or employers or others. i urge adoption of the nadler amendment. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. farenthold. madam chair, i claim the time in opposition to the gentleman's amendment. the acting chair. the gentleman from texas is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. farenthold. madam chair, the fact act requires increased transparency to combat fraud committed against the asbestos trusts. this amendment strikes the requirement that the asbestos trusts publish the very data that would be necessary to detect the fraud between the trusts and state court tort proceedings. in its place, the amendment calls for quarterly reports under the bill to publish only aggregate lists of demands received and aggregate lists of payments made by the trusts. simple aggregation of information is not enough to allow defendants and state court parties and sister asbestos trusts to make meaningful inquiry into whether or not they are being defrauded. the amendment also removes the requirement that the asbestos trusts respond to information requests from parties subject to asbestos- related suits and imposes the cost of such requests on the inquiring parties. the cost-shifting element of this provision is significant. in fact, a gao report found that one asbestos trust had to pay over $1 million to respond to a discovery request. rather than have asbestos trust money used to comply with discovery requests, they should be preserved for the payment to the victims of asbestos-related illnesses. this amendment not only guts the transparency requirements and elements of the bill, it also removes meaningful cost-saving measures. in fact, the bill is carefully crafted to protect folks' privacy. here is what happens: the legislation ensures that claimants' confidential medical records and full social security numbers will not be made public. trust reports are also subject to the bankruptcy code's existing privacy protections. section 107 of the code, for example, allows courts to protect any information that would present an undue risk of identity theft or injure a claimant if disclosed. rule 9037 of the federal rules of bankruptcy procedure, privacy protection for filings made with the court, would also apply to these public reports. the rule would allow the courts to require redactions of personal and private information. finally, rule 9037 will allow the courts to limit or prohibit electronic access to the trust reports. courts throughout the country already use these rules to protect the personal information of individuals who file claims during asbestos bankruptcies. for example, the court, in overseeing a garlock bankruptcy, redacted trust claims information that was introduced into a hearing record and later released to the public. other courts have required anyone reviewing bankruptcy claims to agree to strict protective ordinances. witnesses at the house committee on the judiciary on the fact act have explained that the bill does not threaten asbestos victims' privacy and that asbestos claimants routinely disclose more information than the trust would be required to report in the course of tort litigation and bankruptcy proceedings. [[page h201]] for these and other reasons, i urge my colleagues to oppose the nadler amendment. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. nadler. madam chair, we should realize that the bankruptcy code sections cited by the distinguished gentleman from texas are permissive, not mandatory. bankruptcy code section 107(c), for example, permits, but does not require, the bankruptcy court to issue an order prohibiting the disclosure of certain information pertaining to an individual's for cause if the court finds that disclosure of such information would create undue risk of identity theft or other unlawful injury to the individual or the individual's property. in other words, the victim here, who has been victimized by the people who produced the asbestos, would now have to go into court and request the protective order. the burden would be on the victim. why are we putting the burden on the victim instead of on the tortfeasor? the bill would do that. the bankruptcy code's section 107 so-called privacy protection is not automatic. as a result, the asbestos victim would have to retain counsel and go to court to prove cause to obtain relief. again, you are shifting the burden further to the victim from the tortfeasor. that is not a very good idea, and there is no great necessity for it. if the court finds or if a trust believes that it is being defrauded, it can request the court to get this information. it can ask for discovery. yes, discovery is expensive, but you want to shift the expense to the victim. that is highly unfair. this bill shifts tremendous burden to the victim. if he does not pick up that burden and go in for protective orders, it puts personal information that can be used to further victimize him open to anyone who wants to get it on the internet. my amendment would say no, to publish aggregate data that will help prevent fraud--i am not sure that there is much fraud--but publish aggregate data that would help prevent fraud; and if you have a reason, then you can go and ask the court for more, instead of the other way around. the question is: should the burden be on the tortfeasor or on the victim? i side with the victim. i urge the adoption of this amendment. madam chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. farenthold. madam chair, i think we are going down a rabbit trail here. i agree with mr. nadler. this bill is designed to protect victims. it is not intended to increase the burdens or the cost on the victim. it does require the trusts to publish the name and the basis of the claim of folks who claim trust so that they are not double-dipped and pay more than one claim for the same person. that is what we are trying to do here. as we start to get into the additional information, that is further down the road. that is not part of the disclosure requirements of the fact act. but once the litigation proceeds and we have determined that somebody has filed a claim and they are in another court, the further information requested would normally be part of that proceeding and then would fall under the bankruptcy code rules. the disclosures of the fact act requirements from the asbestos trust are very limited: name and the nature of the claim and where they were exposed. that is less information than you have to release when you file any sort of tort case in a state court. it is basically what we consider to be the bare minimum in order to allow defendants to sniff out the possibility of double-dipping and fraudulent claims. madam chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from new york (mr. nadler). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the noes appeared to have it. mr. nadler. madam chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from new york will be postponed. announcement by the acting chair the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, proceedings will now resume on those amendments printed in house report 114-389 on which further proceedings were postponed, in the following order: amendment no. 1 by mr. cohen of tennessee. amendment no. 3 by mr. conyers of michigan. amendment no. 4 by mr. deutch of florida. amendment no. 5 by ms. moore of wisconsin. amendment no. 6 by ms. moore of wisconsin. amendment no. 7 by ms. maxine waters of california. amendment no. 8 by mr. johnson of georgia. amendment no. 9 by ms. jackson lee of texas. amendment no. 10 by mr. nadler of new york. the chair will reduce to 2 minutes the minimum time for any electronic vote after the first vote in this series. amendment no. 1 offered by mr. cohen the acting chair. the unfinished business is the demand for a recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. cohen) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote. the clerk will redesignate the amendment. the clerk redesignated the amendment. recorded vote the acting chair. a recorded vote has been demanded. a recorded vote was ordered. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 158, noes 211, not voting 64, as follows: [roll no. 23] ayes--158 adams aguilar ashford bass beatty becerra bera bishop (ga) blumenauer bonamici boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brownley (ca) bustos butterfield capps carney carson (in) cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) cicilline clark (ma) clarke (ny) clay clyburn cohen connolly conyers cooper courtney crowley cuellar cummings curbelo (fl) davis (ca) davis, danny defazio degette delaney delbene deutch dingell doyle, michael f. duckworth duncan (tn) edwards eshoo esty fattah foster frankel (fl) fudge gabbard gallego garamendi gibson graham green, al green, gene grijalva gutierrez hahn hastings heck (wa) higgins himes hinojosa honda hoyer israel jeffries johnson (ga) jones kaptur katko keating kelly (il) kildee kilmer kirkpatrick kuster langevin larsen (wa) lawrence lee levin lewis lieu, ted lipinski loebsack lofgren lowenthal lowey lujan grisham (nm) lujan, ben ray (nm) lynch maloney, carolyn maloney, sean massie matsui mccollum mcdermott mcgovern mcnerney meehan meng moore moulton murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal nolan norcross o'rourke pallone pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters polis price (nc) quigley rangel rice (ny) richmond roybal-allard ruppersberger sanchez, linda t. schiff scott, david serrano sherman sinema sires slaughter speier stefanik swalwell (ca) takai takano thompson (ca) tonko torres tsongas van hollen vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky walz waters, maxine watson coleman wilson (fl) yarmuth noes--211 abraham aderholt allen amash amodei babin barletta barr barton benishek bilirakis bishop (mi) bishop (ut) blackburn blum bost boustany brat bridenstine brooks (al) brooks (in) buchanan bucshon burgess byrne calvert carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot clawson (fl) coffman cole collins (ga) collins (ny) comstock conaway cook costello (pa) cramer crawford crenshaw davis, rodney denham dent desantis desjarlais diaz-balart dold donovan duffy duncan (sc) ellmers (nc) emmer (mn) farenthold fitzpatrick fleischmann fleming flores forbes fortenberry foxx franks (az) frelinghuysen garrett gibbs goodlatte gosar gowdy granger graves (ga) graves (la) graves (mo) griffith grothman guinta guthrie hanna hardy harris hartzler heck (nv) hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. hill holding hudson huelskamp huizenga (mi) hultgren hunter hurd (tx) jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (oh) johnson, sam jolly jordan kelly (ms) kelly (pa) king (ny) kinzinger (il) [[page h202]] kline knight labrador lahood lamalfa lamborn lance latta lobiondo long loudermilk love lucas luetkemeyer lummis macarthur marchant marino mcclintock mchenry mckinley mcmorris rodgers mcsally meadows mica miller (fl) moolenaar mooney (wv) mullin mulvaney murphy (pa) neugebauer newhouse noem nunes olson palazzo palmer paulsen pearce perry peterson pittenger pitts poe (tx) poliquin pompeo posey ratcliffe reichert renacci ribble rice (sc) rigell roby roe (tn) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rohrabacher rokita rooney (fl) roskam ross rothfus rouzer royce salmon scalise schrader schweikert scott, austin sensenbrenner sessions shimkus shuster simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (tx) stewart stutzman thompson (pa) thornberry tiberi tipton trott turner upton valadao walberg walden walorski walters, mimi weber (tx) wenstrup westmoreland whitfield williams wilson (sc) wittman womack woodall yoder yoho young (ia) young (in) zeldin zinke not voting--64 beyer black brady (tx) brown (fl) buck capuano cardenas chaffetz chu, judy cleaver costa culberson delauro desaulnier doggett ellison engel farr fincher gohmert grayson harper huffman hurt (va) issa jackson lee johnson, e. b. joyce kennedy kind king (ia) larson (ct) mccarthy mccaul meeks messer miller (mi) nugent pingree pocan price, tom reed ros-lehtinen ruiz rush russell ryan (oh) sanchez, loretta sanford sarbanes schakowsky scott (va) sewell (al) smith (wa) stivers thompson (ms) titus wagner walker wasserman schultz webster (fl) welch westerman young (ak) {time} 1203 messrs. peterson, bridenstine, hensarling, and stewart changed their vote from ``aye'' to ``no.'' ms. stefanik and mr. meehan changed their vote from ``no'' to ``aye.'' so the amendment was rejected. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. stated for: ms. sewell of alabama. madam chair, during rollcall vote number 23 on january 8, 2016, i was unavoidably detained. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' stated against: mr. hurt of virginia. madam chair, i was not present for rollcall vote no. 23 on the cohen of tennessee amendment no. 1 on h.r. 1927. had i been present, i would have voted ``no.'' amendment no. 3 offered by mr. conyers the acting chair. the unfinished business is the demand for a recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from michigan (mr. conyers) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote. the clerk will redesignate the amendment. the clerk redesignated the amendment. recorded vote the acting chair. a recorded vote has been demanded. a recorded vote was ordered. the acting chair. this will be a 2-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 163, noes 221, not voting 49, as follows: [roll no. 24] ayes--163 adams aguilar ashford bass beatty becerra bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer bonamici boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brownley (ca) bustos butterfield capps carney cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) cicilline clarke (ny) clay clyburn cohen connolly conyers cooper courtney crowley cuellar cummings curbelo (fl) davis (ca) davis, danny defazio degette delaney delbene desaulnier deutch dingell doggett doyle, michael f. duckworth edwards ellison eshoo esty fattah foster frankel (fl) fudge gabbard gallego garamendi gibson graham grayson green, al green, gene grijalva gutierrez hahn hastings heck (wa) higgins himes hinojosa honda hoyer huffman israel jeffries johnson (ga) kaptur katko keating kelly (il) kildee kilmer kirkpatrick kuster langevin larsen (wa) lawrence levin lewis lieu, ted lipinski loebsack lofgren lowenthal lowey lujan grisham (nm) lujan, ben ray (nm) lynch maloney, sean matsui mccollum mcdermott mcgovern mcnerney meeks meng moore murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal norcross o'rourke pallone pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters polis price (nc) quigley rangel rice (ny) richmond roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger russell ryan (oh) sanchez, linda t. sanchez, loretta sarbanes schakowsky schiff scott (va) scott, david serrano sherman sinema sires slaughter speier swalwell (ca) takai takano thompson (ca) tonko torres tsongas van hollen vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky walz wasserman schultz waters, maxine watson coleman welch wilson (fl) yarmuth noes--221 abraham aderholt allen amash amodei babin barletta barr barton benishek bilirakis bishop (mi) bishop (ut) blackburn blum bost boustany brat bridenstine brooks (al) brooks (in) buchanan buck bucshon burgess byrne calvert carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot clawson (fl) coffman cole collins (ga) collins (ny) comstock conaway cook costa costello (pa) cramer crawford crenshaw culberson davis, rodney denham dent desantis desjarlais diaz-balart dold donovan duffy duncan (sc) duncan (tn) ellmers (nc) emmer (mn) farenthold fitzpatrick fleischmann fleming flores forbes fortenberry foxx franks (az) frelinghuysen garrett gibbs gohmert goodlatte gosar gowdy granger graves (ga) graves (la) graves (mo) griffith guinta guthrie hanna hardy harris hartzler heck (nv) hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. hill holding hudson huelskamp huizenga (mi) hultgren hunter hurd (tx) hurt (va) jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (oh) johnson, sam jolly jones jordan joyce kelly (ms) king (ny) kinzinger (il) kline knight labrador lahood lamalfa lamborn lance latta lobiondo long loudermilk love lucas luetkemeyer lummis macarthur marchant marino massie mccaul mcclintock mchenry mckinley mcmorris rodgers mcsally meadows meehan messer mica miller (fl) moolenaar mooney (wv) mullin mulvaney murphy (pa) neugebauer newhouse noem nunes olson palazzo palmer paulsen pearce perry peterson pittenger pitts poe (tx) poliquin pompeo posey ratcliffe reed reichert renacci rice (sc) rigell roby roe (tn) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rokita rooney (fl) roskam ross rothfus rouzer royce salmon sanford scalise schrader schweikert scott, austin sensenbrenner sessions shimkus simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (tx) stefanik stewart stutzman thompson (pa) thornberry tiberi tipton trott turner upton valadao walberg walden walorski walters, mimi weber (tx) wenstrup westerman westmoreland whitfield williams wittman womack woodall yoder yoho young (ia) young (in) zeldin zinke not voting--49 black brady (tx) brown (fl) capuano cardenas carson (in) chaffetz chu, judy clark (ma) cleaver delauro engel farr fincher grothman harper issa jackson lee johnson, e. b. kelly (pa) kennedy kind king (ia) larson (ct) lee maloney, carolyn mccarthy miller (mi) moulton nolan nugent pingree pocan price, tom ribble rohrabacher ros-lehtinen rush sewell (al) shuster smith (wa) stivers thompson (ms) titus wagner walker webster (fl) wilson (sc) young (ak) announcement by the acting chair the acting chair (during the vote). there is 1 minute remaining. {time} 1207 so the amendment was rejected. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. stated for: ms. sewell of alabama. madam chair, during rollcall vote number 24 on january 8, 2016, i was unavoidably detained. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' amendment no. 4 offered by mr. deutch the acting chair. the unfinished business is the demand for a recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from florida (mr. deutch) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote. the clerk will redesignate the amendment. [[page h203]] the clerk redesignated the amendment. recorded vote the acting chair. a recorded vote has been demanded. a recorded vote was ordered. the acting chair. this will be a 2-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 163, noes 232, not voting 38, as follows: [roll no. 25] ayes--163 adams aguilar ashford beatty becerra bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer bonamici boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brownley (ca) bustos butterfield capps cardenas carney carson (in) cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) cicilline clarke (ny) clay clyburn cohen connolly conyers courtney crowley cuellar cummings davis (ca) davis, danny defazio degette delaney delbene deutch dingell doggett doyle, michael f. duckworth edwards ellison engel esty fattah foster frankel (fl) fudge gabbard gallego garamendi graham green, al green, gene grijalva gutierrez hahn hastings heck (wa) higgins himes hinojosa honda hoyer huffman israel jackson lee jeffries johnson (ga) kaptur keating kelly (il) kildee kilmer kirkpatrick kuster langevin larsen (wa) lawrence lee levin lewis lieu, ted lipinski loebsack lofgren lowenthal lowey lujan grisham (nm) lujan, ben ray (nm) lynch maloney, carolyn maloney, sean matsui mccollum mcdermott mcgovern mcnerney meeks meng moore moulton murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal norcross o'rourke pallone pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters pingree polis price (nc) quigley rangel rice (ny) richmond roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger ryan (oh) sanchez, linda t. sanchez, loretta sarbanes schakowsky schiff scott (va) scott, david serrano sewell (al) sherman sinema sires slaughter speier swalwell (ca) takai takano thompson (ca) tonko torres tsongas van hollen vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky walz wasserman schultz waters, maxine watson coleman welch wilson (fl) yarmuth noes--232 abraham aderholt allen amash amodei babin barletta barr barton benishek bilirakis bishop (mi) bishop (ut) blackburn blum bost boustany brady (tx) brat bridenstine brooks (al) brooks (in) buchanan buck bucshon burgess byrne calvert carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot clawson (fl) coffman cole collins (ga) collins (ny) comstock conaway cook cooper costa costello (pa) cramer crawford crenshaw culberson curbelo (fl) davis, rodney denham dent desantis desjarlais diaz-balart dold donovan duffy duncan (sc) duncan (tn) ellmers (nc) emmer (mn) farenthold fitzpatrick fleischmann fleming flores forbes fortenberry foxx franks (az) frelinghuysen garrett gibbs gibson gohmert goodlatte gosar gowdy granger graves (ga) graves (la) graves (mo) griffith guinta guthrie hanna hardy harris hartzler heck (nv) hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. hill holding hudson huelskamp huizenga (mi) hultgren hunter hurd (tx) hurt (va) jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (oh) johnson, sam jolly jones jordan joyce katko kelly (ms) kelly (pa) king (ny) kinzinger (il) kline knight labrador lahood lamalfa lamborn lance latta lobiondo long loudermilk love lucas luetkemeyer lummis macarthur marchant marino massie mccaul mcclintock mchenry mckinley mcmorris rodgers mcsally meadows meehan messer mica miller (fl) moolenaar mooney (wv) mullin mulvaney murphy (pa) neugebauer newhouse noem nunes olson palazzo palmer paulsen pearce perry peterson pittenger pitts poe (tx) poliquin pompeo posey ratcliffe reed reichert renacci ribble rice (sc) rigell roby roe (tn) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rohrabacher rokita rooney (fl) roskam ross rothfus rouzer royce russell salmon sanford scalise schrader schweikert scott, austin sensenbrenner sessions shimkus shuster simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (tx) stefanik stewart stutzman thompson (pa) thornberry tiberi tipton trott turner upton valadao walberg walden walorski walters, mimi weber (tx) wenstrup westerman westmoreland whitfield williams wilson (sc) wittman womack woodall yoder yoho young (ia) young (in) zeldin zinke not voting--38 bass black brown (fl) capuano chaffetz chu, judy clark (ma) cleaver delauro desaulnier eshoo farr fincher grayson grothman harper issa johnson, e. b. kennedy kind king (ia) larson (ct) mccarthy miller (mi) nolan nugent pocan price, tom ros-lehtinen rush smith (wa) stivers thompson (ms) titus wagner walker webster (fl) young (ak) announcement by the acting chair the acting chair (during the vote). there is 1 minute remaining. {time} 1210 so the amendment was rejected. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. stated for: ms. eshoo. madam chair, i was not present during rollcall vote number 25 on january 8, 2016. had i been present, i would have voted ``yes.'' personal explanation ms. clark of massachusetts. madam chair, i was unavoidably detained during rollcall votes 24 and 25. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea'' on conyers amendment to h.r. 1927, and ``yea'' on the deutch amendment to h.r. 1927. amendment no. 5 offered by ms. moore the acting chair. the unfinished business is the demand for a recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from wisconsin (ms. moore) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote. the clerk will redesignate the amendment. the clerk redesignated the amendment. recorded vote the acting chair. a recorded vote has been demanded. a recorded vote was ordered. the acting chair. this will be a 2-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 172, noes 229, not voting 32, as follows: [roll no. 26] ayes--172 adams aguilar ashford bass beatty becerra bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer bonamici boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brownley (ca) bustos butterfield capps cardenas carney carson (in) cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) cicilline clark (ma) clarke (ny) clay clyburn cohen connolly conyers cooper courtney crowley cuellar cummings curbelo (fl) davis (ca) davis, danny defazio degette delaney delbene desaulnier deutch dingell doggett doyle, michael f. duckworth edwards ellison engel eshoo esty fattah foster frankel (fl) fudge gabbard gallego garamendi graham green, al green, gene grijalva gutierrez hahn hastings heck (wa) higgins himes hinojosa honda hoyer huffman israel jackson lee jeffries johnson (ga) kaptur keating kelly (il) kildee kilmer kirkpatrick kuster langevin larsen (wa) lawrence lee levin lewis lieu, ted lipinski loebsack lofgren lowenthal lowey lujan grisham (nm) lujan, ben ray (nm) lynch maloney, carolyn maloney, sean matsui mccollum mcdermott mcgovern mcnerney meeks meng moore moulton murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal nolan norcross o'rourke pallone pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters pingree polis price (nc) quigley rangel rice (ny) richmond roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger russell ryan (oh) sanchez, linda t. sanchez, loretta sarbanes schakowsky schiff schrader scott (va) scott, david serrano sewell (al) sherman sinema sires slaughter speier swalwell (ca) takai takano thompson (ca) tonko torres tsongas van hollen vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky walz wasserman schultz waters, maxine watson coleman welch wilson (fl) yarmuth noes--229 abraham aderholt allen amash amodei babin barletta barr barton benishek bilirakis bishop (mi) bishop (ut) blackburn blum bost boustany brady (tx) brat bridenstine brooks (al) [[page h204]] brooks (in) buchanan buck bucshon burgess byrne calvert carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot clawson (fl) coffman cole collins (ga) collins (ny) comstock conaway cook costa costello (pa) cramer crawford crenshaw culberson davis, rodney denham dent desantis desjarlais diaz-balart dold donovan duffy duncan (sc) duncan (tn) ellmers (nc) emmer (mn) farenthold fitzpatrick fleischmann fleming flores forbes fortenberry foxx franks (az) frelinghuysen garrett gibbs gibson gohmert goodlatte gosar gowdy granger graves (ga) graves (la) graves (mo) griffith grothman guinta guthrie hanna hardy harris hartzler heck (nv) hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. hill holding hudson huelskamp huizenga (mi) hultgren hunter hurd (tx) hurt (va) jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (oh) johnson, sam jolly jones jordan joyce katko kelly (ms) kelly (pa) king (ny) kinzinger (il) kline knight labrador lahood lamalfa lamborn lance latta lobiondo long loudermilk love lucas luetkemeyer lummis macarthur marchant marino massie mccaul mcclintock mchenry mckinley mcmorris rodgers mcsally meadows meehan messer mica miller (fl) moolenaar mooney (wv) mullin mulvaney murphy (pa) neugebauer newhouse noem nunes olson palazzo palmer paulsen pearce perry peterson pittenger pitts poe (tx) poliquin pompeo posey ratcliffe reed reichert renacci ribble rice (sc) rigell roby roe (tn) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rohrabacher rokita rooney (fl) roskam ross rothfus rouzer royce salmon sanford scalise schweikert scott, austin sensenbrenner sessions shimkus shuster simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (tx) stefanik stewart stutzman thompson (pa) thornberry tiberi tipton trott turner upton valadao walberg walden walorski walters, mimi weber (tx) wenstrup westerman westmoreland whitfield williams wilson (sc) wittman womack woodall yoder yoho young (ia) young (in) zeldin zinke not voting--32 black brown (fl) capuano chaffetz chu, judy cleaver delauro farr fincher grayson harper issa johnson, e. b. kennedy kind king (ia) larson (ct) mccarthy miller (mi) nugent pocan price, tom ros-lehtinen rush smith (wa) stivers thompson (ms) titus wagner walker webster (fl) young (ak) {time} 1214 so the amendment was rejected. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. amendment no. 6 offered by ms. moore the acting chair. the unfinished business is the demand for a recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from wisconsin (ms. moore) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote. the clerk will redesignate the amendment. the clerk redesignated the amendment. recorded vote the acting chair. a recorded vote has been demanded. a recorded vote was ordered. the acting chair. this will be a 2-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 177, noes 224, not voting 32, as follows: [roll no. 27] ayes--177 adams aguilar ashford bass beatty becerra bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer bonamici boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brownley (ca) bustos butterfield capps carney carson (in) cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) cicilline clark (ma) clarke (ny) clay clyburn cohen connolly conyers cooper courtney crowley cuellar cummings curbelo (fl) davis (ca) davis, danny defazio degette delaney delbene desaulnier deutch dingell doggett dold doyle, michael f. duckworth edwards ellison engel eshoo esty fattah foster frankel (fl) fudge gabbard gallego garamendi gibson graham grayson green, al green, gene grijalva gutierrez hahn hastings heck (wa) higgins himes hinojosa honda hoyer huffman israel jackson lee jeffries johnson (ga) jones kaptur katko keating kelly (il) kildee kilmer kirkpatrick kuster langevin larsen (wa) lawrence lee levin lewis lieu, ted lipinski loebsack lofgren lowenthal lowey lujan grisham (nm) lujan, ben ray (nm) lynch maloney, carolyn maloney, sean matsui mccollum mcdermott mcgovern mcnerney meeks meng moore moulton murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal nolan norcross o'rourke pallone pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters peterson pingree polis price (nc) quigley rangel rice (ny) richmond roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger russell ryan (oh) sanchez, linda t. sanchez, loretta sarbanes schakowsky schiff schrader scott (va) scott, david serrano sewell (al) sherman sinema sires slaughter speier swalwell (ca) takai takano thompson (ca) tonko torres tsongas van hollen vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky walz wasserman schultz waters, maxine watson coleman welch wilson (fl) yarmuth noes--224 abraham aderholt allen amash amodei babin barletta barr barton benishek bilirakis bishop (mi) bishop (ut) blackburn blum bost boustany brady (tx) brat bridenstine brooks (al) brooks (in) buchanan buck bucshon burgess byrne calvert carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot clawson (fl) coffman cole collins (ga) collins (ny) comstock conaway cook costa costello (pa) cramer crawford crenshaw culberson davis, rodney denham dent desantis desjarlais diaz-balart donovan duffy duncan (sc) duncan (tn) ellmers (nc) emmer (mn) farenthold fitzpatrick fleischmann fleming flores forbes fortenberry foxx franks (az) frelinghuysen garrett gibbs gohmert goodlatte gosar gowdy granger graves (ga) graves (la) graves (mo) griffith grothman guinta guthrie hanna hardy harris hartzler heck (nv) hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. hill holding hudson huelskamp huizenga (mi) hultgren hunter hurd (tx) hurt (va) jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (oh) johnson, sam jolly jordan joyce kelly (ms) kelly (pa) king (ny) kinzinger (il) kline knight labrador lahood lamalfa lamborn lance latta lobiondo long loudermilk love lucas luetkemeyer lummis macarthur marchant marino massie mccaul mcclintock mchenry mckinley mcmorris rodgers mcsally meadows meehan messer mica miller (fl) moolenaar mooney (wv) mullin mulvaney murphy (pa) neugebauer newhouse noem nunes olson palazzo palmer paulsen pearce perry pittenger pitts poe (tx) poliquin pompeo posey ratcliffe reed reichert renacci ribble rice (sc) rigell roby roe (tn) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rohrabacher rokita rooney (fl) roskam ross rothfus rouzer royce salmon sanford scalise schweikert scott, austin sensenbrenner sessions shimkus shuster simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (tx) stefanik stewart stutzman thompson (pa) thornberry tiberi tipton trott turner upton valadao walberg walden walorski walters, mimi weber (tx) wenstrup westerman westmoreland whitfield williams wilson (sc) wittman womack woodall yoder yoho young (ia) young (in) zeldin zinke not voting--32 black brown (fl) capuano cardenas chaffetz chu, judy cleaver delauro farr fincher harper issa johnson, e. b. kennedy kind king (ia) larson (ct) mccarthy miller (mi) nugent pocan price, tom ros-lehtinen rush smith (wa) stivers thompson (ms) titus wagner walker webster (fl) young (ak) announcement by the acting chair the acting chair (during the vote). there is 1 minute remaining. {time} 1218 mr. dold changed his vote from ``no'' to ``aye.'' so the amendment was rejected. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. amendment no. 7 offered by ms. maxine waters of california the acting chair. the unfinished business is the demand for a recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from california (ms. maxine waters) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote. the clerk will redesignate the amendment. [[page h205]] the clerk redesignated the amendment. recorded vote the acting chair. a recorded vote has been demanded. a recorded vote was ordered. the acting chair. this will be a 2-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 177, noes 223, not voting 33, as follows: [roll no. 28] ayes--177 adams aguilar ashford bass beatty becerra bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer bonamici boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brownley (ca) bustos butterfield capps cardenas carney carson (in) cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) cicilline clark (ma) clarke (ny) clay clyburn cohen connolly conyers cooper courtney crowley cuellar cummings curbelo (fl) davis (ca) davis, danny defazio degette delaney delbene desaulnier deutch dingell doggett doyle, michael f. duckworth edwards ellison engel eshoo esty fattah foster frankel (fl) fudge gabbard gallego garamendi gibson graham grayson green, al green, gene grijalva gutierrez hahn hastings heck (wa) higgins himes hinojosa honda hoyer huffman israel jackson lee jeffries johnson (ga) jones kaptur katko keating kelly (il) kildee kilmer kirkpatrick kuster langevin larsen (wa) lawrence lee levin lewis lieu, ted lipinski loebsack lofgren lowenthal lowey lujan grisham (nm) lujan, ben ray (nm) lynch maloney, carolyn maloney, sean massie matsui mccollum mcdermott mcgovern mcnerney meehan meeks meng moore moulton murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal nolan norcross o'rourke pallone pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters pingree polis price (nc) quigley rangel rice (ny) richmond roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger russell ryan (oh) sanchez, linda t. sanchez, loretta sarbanes schakowsky schiff scott (va) scott, david serrano sewell (al) sherman sinema sires slaughter speier swalwell (ca) takai takano thompson (ca) tonko torres tsongas van hollen vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky walz wasserman schultz waters, maxine watson coleman welch wilson (fl) yarmuth noes--223 abraham aderholt allen amash amodei babin barletta barr barton benishek bilirakis bishop (mi) bishop (ut) blackburn blum bost boustany brady (tx) brat bridenstine brooks (al) brooks (in) buchanan buck bucshon burgess byrne calvert carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot clawson (fl) coffman cole collins (ga) collins (ny) comstock conaway cook costa costello (pa) cramer crawford crenshaw culberson denham dent desantis desjarlais diaz-balart dold donovan duffy duncan (sc) duncan (tn) ellmers (nc) emmer (mn) farenthold fitzpatrick fleischmann fleming flores forbes fortenberry foxx franks (az) frelinghuysen garrett gibbs gohmert goodlatte gosar gowdy granger graves (ga) graves (la) graves (mo) griffith grothman guinta guthrie hanna hardy harris hartzler heck (nv) hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. hill holding hudson huelskamp huizenga (mi) hultgren hunter hurd (tx) hurt (va) jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (oh) johnson, sam jolly joyce kelly (ms) kelly (pa) king (ny) kinzinger (il) kline knight labrador lahood lamalfa lamborn lance latta lobiondo long loudermilk love lucas luetkemeyer lummis macarthur marchant marino mccaul mcclintock mchenry mckinley mcmorris rodgers mcsally meadows messer mica miller (fl) moolenaar mooney (wv) mullin mulvaney murphy (pa) neugebauer newhouse noem nunes olson palazzo palmer paulsen pearce perry peterson pittenger pitts poe (tx) poliquin pompeo posey ratcliffe reed reichert renacci ribble rice (sc) rigell roby roe (tn) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rohrabacher rokita rooney (fl) roskam ross rothfus rouzer royce salmon sanford scalise schrader schweikert scott, austin sensenbrenner sessions shimkus shuster simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (tx) stefanik stewart stutzman thompson (pa) thornberry tiberi tipton trott turner upton valadao walberg walden walorski walters, mimi weber (tx) wenstrup westerman westmoreland whitfield williams wilson (sc) wittman womack woodall yoder yoho young (ia) young (in) zeldin zinke not voting--33 black brown (fl) capuano chaffetz chu, judy cleaver davis, rodney delauro farr fincher harper issa johnson, e. b. jordan kennedy kind king (ia) larson (ct) mccarthy miller (mi) nugent pocan price, tom ros-lehtinen rush smith (wa) stivers thompson (ms) titus wagner walker webster (fl) young (ak) announcement by the acting chair the acting chair (during the vote). there is 1 minute remaining. {time} 1222 so the amendment was rejected. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. amendment no. 8 offered by mr. johnson of georgia the acting chair. the unfinished business is the demand for a recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from georgia (mr. johnson) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote. the clerk will redesignate the amendment. the clerk redesignated the amendment. recorded vote the acting chair. a recorded vote has been demanded. a recorded vote was ordered. the acting chair. this will be a 2-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 177, noes 223, answered ``present'' 1, not voting 32, as follows: [roll no. 29] ayes--177 adams aguilar amash ashford bass beatty becerra bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer bonamici boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brownley (ca) bustos butterfield capps cardenas carney carson (in) cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) cicilline clark (ma) clarke (ny) clay clyburn cohen connolly conyers cooper courtney crowley cuellar cummings curbelo (fl) davis (ca) davis, danny defazio degette delaney delbene desaulnier deutch dingell doggett doyle, michael f. duckworth duncan (tn) edwards ellison engel eshoo esty fattah foster frankel (fl) fudge gabbard gallego garamendi graham grayson green, al green, gene grijalva gutierrez hahn hastings heck (wa) higgins himes hinojosa honda hoyer huffman israel jackson lee jeffries johnson (ga) jones kaptur keating kelly (il) kildee kilmer kirkpatrick kuster langevin larsen (wa) lawrence lee levin lewis lieu, ted lipinski loebsack lofgren lowenthal lowey lujan grisham (nm) lujan, ben ray (nm) lynch maloney, carolyn maloney, sean massie matsui mccollum mcdermott mcgovern mcnerney meeks meng moore moulton murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal nolan norcross o'rourke pallone pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters pingree polis price (nc) quigley rangel rice (ny) richmond roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger russell ryan (oh) sanchez, linda t. sanchez, loretta sarbanes schakowsky schiff schrader scott (va) scott, david serrano sewell (al) sherman sinema sires slaughter speier swalwell (ca) takai takano thompson (ca) tonko torres tsongas van hollen vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky walz wasserman schultz waters, maxine watson coleman welch wilson (fl) yarmuth noes--223 abraham aderholt allen amodei babin barletta barr barton benishek bilirakis bishop (mi) bishop (ut) blackburn blum bost boustany brady (tx) brat bridenstine brooks (al) brooks (in) buchanan buck bucshon burgess byrne calvert carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot clawson (fl) coffman cole collins (ga) collins (ny) comstock conaway cook costa costello (pa) cramer crawford crenshaw culberson davis, rodney denham dent desantis desjarlais diaz-balart dold donovan duffy duncan (sc) ellmers (nc) emmer (mn) farenthold [[page h206]] fitzpatrick fleischmann fleming flores forbes fortenberry foxx franks (az) frelinghuysen garrett gibbs gibson gohmert goodlatte gosar gowdy granger graves (ga) graves (la) graves (mo) grothman guinta guthrie hanna hardy harris hartzler heck (nv) hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. hill holding hudson huelskamp huizenga (mi) hultgren hunter hurd (tx) hurt (va) jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (oh) johnson, sam jolly jordan joyce katko kelly (ms) kelly (pa) king (ny) kinzinger (il) kline knight labrador lahood lamalfa lamborn lance latta lobiondo long loudermilk love lucas luetkemeyer lummis macarthur marchant marino mccaul mcclintock mchenry mckinley mcmorris rodgers mcsally meadows meehan messer mica miller (fl) moolenaar mooney (wv) mullin mulvaney murphy (pa) neugebauer newhouse noem nunes olson palazzo palmer paulsen pearce perry peterson pittenger pitts poe (tx) poliquin pompeo posey ratcliffe reed reichert renacci ribble rice (sc) rigell roby roe (tn) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rohrabacher rokita roskam ross rothfus rouzer royce salmon sanford scalise schweikert scott, austin sensenbrenner sessions shimkus shuster simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (tx) stefanik stewart stutzman thompson (pa) thornberry tiberi tipton trott turner upton valadao walberg walden walorski walters, mimi weber (tx) wenstrup westerman westmoreland whitfield williams wilson (sc) wittman womack woodall yoder yoho young (ia) young (in) zeldin zinke answered ``present''--1 griffith not voting--32 black brown (fl) capuano chaffetz chu, judy cleaver delauro farr fincher harper issa johnson, e. b. kennedy kind king (ia) larson (ct) mccarthy miller (mi) nugent pocan price, tom rooney (fl) ros-lehtinen rush smith (wa) stivers thompson (ms) titus wagner walker webster (fl) young (ak) announcement by the acting chair the acting chair (during the vote). there is 1 minute remaining. {time} 1225 so the amendment was rejected. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. amendment no. 9 offered by ms. jackson lee the acting chair. the unfinished business is the demand for a recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from texas (ms. jackson lee) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote. the clerk will redesignate the amendment. the clerk redesignated the amendment. recorded vote the acting chair. a recorded vote has been demanded. a recorded vote was ordered. the acting chair. this will be a 2-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 174, noes 228, not voting 31, as follows: [roll no. 30] ayes--174 adams aguilar ashford bass beatty becerra bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer bonamici boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brownley (ca) bustos butterfield capps cardenas carney carson (in) cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) cicilline clark (ma) clarke (ny) clay clyburn cohen connolly conyers cooper courtney crowley cuellar cummings curbelo (fl) davis (ca) davis, danny defazio degette delaney delbene desaulnier deutch dingell doggett doyle, michael f. duckworth edwards ellison engel eshoo esty fattah foster frankel (fl) fudge gabbard gallego garamendi graham grayson green, al green, gene grijalva gutierrez hahn hastings heck (wa) higgins himes hinojosa honda hoyer huffman israel jackson lee jeffries johnson (ga) kaptur keating kelly (il) kildee kilmer kirkpatrick kuster langevin larsen (wa) lawrence lee levin lewis lieu, ted lipinski loebsack lofgren lowenthal lowey lujan grisham (nm) lujan, ben ray (nm) lynch maloney, carolyn maloney, sean matsui mccollum mcdermott mcgovern mcnerney meeks meng moore moulton murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal nolan norcross o'rourke pallone pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters peterson pingree polis price (nc) quigley rangel rice (ny) richmond roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger russell ryan (oh) sanchez, linda t. sanchez, loretta sarbanes schakowsky schiff schrader scott (va) scott, david serrano sewell (al) sherman sinema sires slaughter speier swalwell (ca) takai takano thompson (ca) tonko torres tsongas van hollen vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky walz wasserman schultz waters, maxine watson coleman welch wilson (fl) yarmuth noes--228 abraham aderholt allen amash amodei babin barletta barr barton benishek bilirakis bishop (mi) bishop (ut) blackburn blum bost boustany brady (tx) brat bridenstine brooks (al) brooks (in) buchanan buck bucshon burgess byrne calvert carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot clawson (fl) coffman cole collins (ga) collins (ny) comstock conaway cook costa costello (pa) cramer crawford crenshaw culberson davis, rodney denham dent desantis desjarlais diaz-balart dold donovan duffy duncan (sc) duncan (tn) ellmers (nc) emmer (mn) farenthold fitzpatrick fleischmann fleming flores forbes fortenberry foxx franks (az) frelinghuysen garrett gibbs gibson gohmert goodlatte gosar gowdy granger graves (ga) graves (la) graves (mo) griffith grothman guinta guthrie hanna hardy harris hartzler heck (nv) hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. hill holding hudson huelskamp huizenga (mi) hultgren hunter hurd (tx) hurt (va) jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (oh) johnson, sam jolly jones jordan joyce katko kelly (ms) kelly (pa) king (ny) kinzinger (il) kline knight labrador lahood lamalfa lamborn lance latta lobiondo long loudermilk love lucas luetkemeyer lummis macarthur marchant marino massie mccaul mcclintock mchenry mckinley mcmorris rodgers mcsally meadows meehan messer mica miller (fl) moolenaar mooney (wv) mullin mulvaney murphy (pa) neugebauer newhouse noem nunes olson palazzo palmer paulsen pearce perry pittenger pitts poe (tx) poliquin pompeo posey ratcliffe reed reichert renacci ribble rice (sc) rigell roby roe (tn) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rohrabacher rokita rooney (fl) roskam ross rothfus rouzer royce salmon sanford scalise schweikert scott, austin sensenbrenner sessions shimkus shuster simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (tx) stefanik stewart stutzman thompson (pa) thornberry tiberi tipton trott turner upton valadao walberg walden walorski walters, mimi weber (tx) wenstrup westerman westmoreland whitfield williams wilson (sc) wittman womack woodall yoder yoho young (ia) young (in) zeldin zinke not voting--31 black brown (fl) capuano chaffetz chu, judy cleaver delauro farr fincher harper issa johnson, e. b. kennedy kind king (ia) larson (ct) mccarthy miller (mi) nugent pocan price, tom ros-lehtinen rush smith (wa) stivers thompson (ms) titus wagner walker webster (fl) young (ak) announcement by the acting chair the acting chair (during the vote). there is 1 minute remaining. {time} 1228 so the amendment was rejected. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. amendment no. 10 offered by mr. nadler the acting chair. the unfinished business is the demand for a recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from new york (mr. nadler) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the noes prevailed by voice vote. the clerk will redesignate the amendment. the clerk redesignated the amendment. recorded vote the acting chair. a recorded vote has been demanded. [[page h207]] a recorded vote was ordered. the acting chair. this will be a 2-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 179, noes 222, not voting 32, as follows: [roll no. 31] ayes--179 adams aguilar ashford bass beatty becerra bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer bonamici boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brownley (ca) bustos butterfield capps cardenas carney carson (in) cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) cicilline clark (ma) clarke (ny) clay clyburn cohen connolly conyers cooper courtney crowley cuellar cummings curbelo (fl) davis (ca) davis, danny defazio degette delaney delbene desaulnier deutch dingell doggett doyle, michael f. duckworth duncan (tn) edwards ellison engel eshoo esty fattah foster frankel (fl) fudge gabbard gallego garamendi graham grayson green, al green, gene grijalva gutierrez hahn hastings heck (wa) higgins himes hinojosa honda hoyer huffman israel jackson lee jeffries johnson (ga) jones kaptur keating kelly (il) kildee kilmer kirkpatrick kuster langevin larsen (wa) lawrence lee levin lewis lieu, ted lipinski loebsack lofgren lowenthal lowey lujan grisham (nm) lujan, ben ray (nm) lynch maloney, carolyn maloney, sean massie matsui mccollum mcdermott mcgovern mckinley mcnerney meeks meng moore moulton murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal nolan norcross o'rourke pallone pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters peterson pingree polis price (nc) quigley rangel rice (ny) richmond roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger russell ryan (oh) sanchez, linda t. sanchez, loretta sarbanes schakowsky schiff schrader scott (va) scott, david serrano sewell (al) sherman sinema sires slaughter speier swalwell (ca) takai takano thompson (ca) tonko torres tsongas van hollen vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky walz wasserman schultz waters, maxine watson coleman welch wilson (fl) yarmuth zinke noes--222 abraham aderholt allen amash amodei babin barletta barr barton benishek bilirakis bishop (mi) bishop (ut) blackburn blum bost boustany brady (tx) brat bridenstine brooks (al) brooks (in) buchanan buck bucshon burgess byrne calvert carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot clawson (fl) coffman cole collins (ga) collins (ny) comstock conaway cook costa costello (pa) cramer crawford crenshaw culberson davis, rodney denham dent desantis desjarlais diaz-balart dold donovan duffy duncan (sc) ellmers (nc) emmer (mn) farenthold fitzpatrick fleischmann fleming flores forbes fortenberry foxx franks (az) frelinghuysen garrett gibbs gibson gohmert goodlatte gosar gowdy granger graves (ga) graves (la) graves (mo) griffith grothman guinta guthrie hanna hardy harris hartzler heck (nv) hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. hill holding hudson huelskamp huizenga (mi) hultgren hunter hurd (tx) hurt (va) jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (oh) johnson, sam jolly jordan joyce katko kelly (ms) kelly (pa) king (ny) kinzinger (il) kline knight labrador lahood lamalfa lamborn lance latta lobiondo long loudermilk love lucas luetkemeyer lummis macarthur marchant marino mccaul mcclintock mchenry mcmorris rodgers mcsally meadows meehan messer mica miller (fl) moolenaar mooney (wv) mullin mulvaney murphy (pa) neugebauer newhouse noem nunes olson palazzo palmer paulsen pearce perry pittenger pitts poe (tx) poliquin pompeo posey ratcliffe reed reichert renacci ribble rice (sc) rigell roby roe (tn) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rohrabacher rokita rooney (fl) roskam ross rothfus rouzer royce salmon sanford scalise schweikert scott, austin sensenbrenner sessions shimkus shuster simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) stefanik stewart stutzman thompson (pa) thornberry tiberi tipton trott turner upton valadao walberg walden walorski walters, mimi weber (tx) wenstrup westerman westmoreland whitfield williams wilson (sc) wittman womack woodall yoder yoho young (ia) young (in) zeldin not voting--32 black brown (fl) capuano chaffetz chu, judy cleaver delauro farr fincher harper issa johnson, e. b. kennedy kind king (ia) larson (ct) mccarthy miller (mi) nugent pocan price, tom ros-lehtinen rush smith (tx) smith (wa) stivers thompson (ms) titus wagner walker webster (fl) young (ak) announcement by the acting chair the acting chair (during the vote). there is 1 minute remaining. {time} 1232 so the amendment was rejected. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment in the nature of a substitute. the amendment was agreed to. the acting chair. under the rule, the committee rises. accordingly, the committee rose; and the speaker pro tempore (mr. hultgren) having assumed the chair, ms. foxx, acting chair of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union, reported that that committee, having had under consideration the bill (h.r. 1927) to amend title 28, united states code, to improve fairness in class action litigation, and, pursuant to house resolution 581, she reported the bill back to the house with an amendment adopted in the committee of the whole. the speaker pro tempore. under the rule, the previous question is ordered. the question is on the amendment in the nature of a substitute. the amendment was agreed to. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the engrossment and third reading of the bill. the bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was read the third time. motion to recommit ms. mccollum. mr. speaker, i have a motion to recommit at the desk. the speaker pro tempore. is the gentlewoman opposed to the bill? ms. mccollum. very much so, i am opposed. the speaker pro tempore. the clerk will report the motion to recommit. the clerk read as follows: ms. mccollum moves to recommit the bill (h.r. 1927) to the committee on the judiciary, with instructions to report the bill back to the house forthwith with the following amendment: at the end of section 3 of the bill, add the following: (c) protecting the privacy of children injured by asbestos in a school.--paragraph (8) of section 524(g) of title 11 of the united states code, as added by subsection (a), shall not apply with respect to a claimant whose claim is filed by or on behalf of an individual exposed to asbestos as a child in a school environment. the speaker pro tempore. the gentlewoman from minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. mccollum. mr. speaker, this is the final amendment to the bill, which will not kill the bill or send it back to committee. if adopted, the bill will immediately proceed to final passage as amended. mr. speaker, asbestos is a known carcinogen. asbestos wreaks havoc on the health and livelihoods of the people exposed to it, killing approximately 10,000 americans each year. this deadly poison can cause lung cancer and mesothelioma, an aggressive cancer that an estimated 3,000 americans are diagnosed with each year. once detected, mesothelioma victims may only survive 8 to 14 months. this was true for my predecessor, the late congressman bruce vento. bruce proudly served minnesota's fourth district for more than 20 years in this house, and many of you served with him in this chamber. bruce died from mesothelioma in 2000, only months--only months--after he was diagnosed. i lost a friend and a mentor. his family lost a husband, a father, a son, and a brother. since then, i have worked with mesothelioma patients and their families to fight this awful disease, and to hold those responsible for asbestos exposure accountable. i can tell you, this legislation does not support the victims of asbestos. asbestos trusts would be forced--forced--to release the private information of [[page h208]] patients and their families on a public web site. listing a patient's name, their address, health and financial information, and the last four digits of their social security number exposes these patients to identity theft. h.r. 1927 would also delay any compensation victims could receive with new, cumbersome, and unnecessary procedural hurdles, meaning many victims will not live long enough to get the justice they deserve or know that their families will not be burdened with medical costs. this legislation is unacceptable for those seeking justice from asbestos exposure. it is especially outrageous when we know this legislation does not provide basic protection for children. this amendment would protect children. this amendment will ensure that children exposed to asbestos will not have their personal information disclosed--children exposed to asbestos from the walls, the ceilings, and the floors of their classrooms, or even the possible exposure from crayons that they used that were manufactured in china. our children deserve protection. their parents should have the peace of mind that their child's privacy is secure. as a mother, i cannot imagine the anguish of worrying about my child's health as they suffer from asbestos exposure, and then add the burden of worrying that my child's private information was exposed on a web site. without this amendment to the current bill, you will be voting to deliver sensitive information about children to criminals who could exploit them. let me be clear: this information will be available to identity thieves and to sexual predators. congressman vento was a dedicated public servant and an asbestos victim. i know bruce would be horrified that this house would allow a child's personal information to be exposed in this incredibly irresponsible manner, and we should stop it from happening. we can stop it from happening. congress has a responsibility to find real solutions to help and support victims, especially children of asbestos exposure and their families. this bill falls far short of it. the least we can do here today is to protect the privacy of innocent children who have already suffered enough. i urge my colleagues to pass this amendment and to protect the privacy of vulnerable children. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. farenthold. mr. speaker, i rise in opposition to the motion to recommit. the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman from texas is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. farenthold. mr. speaker, i am stunned by how many people apparently have not read this 3-page bill. nowhere in the bill does it say we are going to release addresses. nowhere does it say we are going to release medical records. it is simply the name, the basis of the claim, and exposure. furthermore, this is designed to protect victims, especially children. there needs to be money in these trusts for future claims. we want to help the children, not the plaintiffs' attorneys. this amendment is wholly unnecessary. if you look at rule 9037 of the bankruptcy code, by default, unless the court orders otherwise, information about a minor is restricted to only releasing, in any case, the last 4 digits of the social security number, the year of the individual's birth, the minor's initials, not the minor's name, and the last four digits of the financial account number. this motion to recommit is just a waste of time and it is unnecessary. it is already covered by the bankruptcy code. i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. without objection, the previous question is ordered on the motion to recommit. there was no objection. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion to recommit. the question was taken; and the speaker pro tempore announced that the noes appeared to have it. recorded vote ms. mccollum. mr. speaker, i demand a recorded vote. a recorded vote was ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 9 of rule xx, the chair will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum time for any electronic vote on the question of passage. this is a 5-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 173, noes 227, not voting 33, as follows: [roll no. 32] ayes--173 adams aguilar ashford bass beatty becerra bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer bonamici boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brownley (ca) bustos butterfield capps cardenas carney carson (in) cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) cicilline clark (ma) clarke (ny) clay clyburn cohen connolly conyers cooper costa courtney crowley cuellar cummings davis (ca) davis, danny defazio degette delaney delbene desaulnier deutch dingell doggett doyle, michael f. duckworth edwards ellison engel eshoo esty fattah foster frankel (fl) fudge gabbard gallego garamendi graham grayson green, al green, gene grijalva gutierrez hahn hastings heck (wa) higgins himes hinojosa honda hoyer huffman israel jackson lee jeffries johnson (ga) jones kaptur keating kelly (il) kildee kilmer kirkpatrick kuster langevin larsen (wa) lawrence lee levin lewis lieu, ted lipinski loebsack lofgren lowenthal lowey lujan grisham (nm) lujan, ben ray (nm) lynch maloney, carolyn maloney, sean matsui mccollum mcgovern mcnerney meeks meng moore moulton murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal nolan norcross o'rourke pallone pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters peterson pingree polis price (nc) quigley rangel rice (ny) richmond roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger ryan (oh) sanchez, linda t. sanchez, loretta sarbanes schakowsky schiff schrader scott (va) scott, david serrano sewell (al) sherman sinema sires slaughter speier swalwell (ca) takai takano thompson (ca) tonko torres tsongas van hollen vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky walz wasserman schultz waters, maxine watson coleman welch wilson (fl) yarmuth noes--227 abraham aderholt allen amash amodei babin barletta barr barton benishek bilirakis bishop (mi) bishop (ut) blackburn blum bost boustany brady (tx) brat bridenstine brooks (al) brooks (in) buchanan buck bucshon burgess byrne calvert carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot clawson (fl) coffman cole collins (ga) comstock conaway cook costello (pa) cramer crawford crenshaw culberson curbelo (fl) davis, rodney denham dent desantis desjarlais diaz-balart dold donovan duffy duncan (sc) duncan (tn) ellmers (nc) emmer (mn) farenthold fitzpatrick fleischmann fleming flores forbes fortenberry foxx franks (az) frelinghuysen garrett gibbs gibson gohmert goodlatte gosar gowdy granger graves (ga) graves (la) graves (mo) griffith grothman guinta guthrie hanna hardy harris hartzler heck (nv) hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. hill holding hudson huelskamp huizenga (mi) hultgren hunter hurd (tx) hurt (va) jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (oh) johnson, sam jolly jordan joyce katko kelly (ms) kelly (pa) king (ny) kinzinger (il) kline knight labrador lahood lamalfa lamborn lance latta lobiondo long loudermilk love lucas luetkemeyer lummis macarthur marchant marino massie mccaul mcclintock mchenry mckinley mcmorris rodgers mcsally meadows meehan messer mica miller (fl) moolenaar mooney (wv) mullin mulvaney murphy (pa) neugebauer newhouse noem nunes olson palazzo palmer paulsen pearce perry pittenger pitts poe (tx) poliquin pompeo posey ratcliffe reed reichert renacci ribble rice (sc) rigell roby roe (tn) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rohrabacher rokita rooney (fl) roskam ross rothfus rouzer royce russell salmon sanford scalise schweikert scott, austin sensenbrenner sessions shimkus shuster simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (tx) stefanik stewart stutzman thompson (pa) thornberry tiberi tipton trott turner upton valadao walberg walden walorski walters, mimi weber (tx) wenstrup westerman westmoreland whitfield williams wilson (sc) wittman womack woodall [[page h209]] yoder yoho young (ia) young (in) zeldin zinke not voting--33 black brown (fl) capuano chaffetz chu, judy cleaver collins (ny) delauro farr fincher harper issa johnson, e. b. kennedy kind king (ia) larson (ct) mccarthy mcdermott miller (mi) nugent pocan price, tom ros-lehtinen rush smith (wa) stivers thompson (ms) titus wagner walker webster (fl) young (ak) announcement by the speaker pro tempore the speaker pro tempore (during the vote). there are 2 minutes remaining. {time} 1247 mr. hurt of virginia changed his vote from ``aye'' to ``no.'' so the motion to recommit was rejected. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. stated for: mr. mcdermott. mr. speaker, on rollcall vote 32 (on motion to recommit with instructions related to h.r. 1927), had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' (by unanimous consent, ms. mcsally was allowed to speak out of order.) moment of silence commemorating fifth anniversary of shooting in tucson, arizona ms. mcsally. mr. speaker, i rise today with my colleagues from arizona and around the country to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the shooting that took place on january 8, 2011, in tucson, arizona. on that sunny, chilly saturday morning, six people were killed and 13 were wounded at a congress on your corner event, hosted by congresswoman gabrielle giffords. the congresswoman was among the injured, along with the member of her staff who would succeed her, congressman ron barber. for many, the pain of that day will always be with us, but tucson has not languished in grief. as we remember the victims, we also remember how our community rose up with courage and unity to support those grieving and to honor their loved ones. signs of that courage are all around us. the january 8th memorial foundation is working to build a permanent tribute to the victims as well as to our community's response. just feet below us in this building is the gabriel zimmerman meeting room, a lasting tribute to the congressional staffer who died while serving the men and women of southern arizona. today and this weekend people around southern arizona will be coming together to celebrate the lives of our friends and loved ones who were taken too soon and to celebrate the difference they made and continue to make. there are hikes, bike rides, runs, storytelling, discussions, gatherings, and much more. while we know some wounds may never fully heal, by carrying on the legacy of those who died, we ensure their memories are never forgotten: christina-taylor green, dorothy morris, judge john roll, phyllis schneck, dorwan stoddard, and gabe zimmerman. mr. speaker, i ask that the house observe a moment of silence in remembrance of those we lost. the speaker pro tempore. without objection, 5-minute voting will continue. there was no objection. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the passage of the bill. the question was taken; and the speaker pro tempore announced that the ayes appeared to have it. recorded vote mr. farenthold. mr. speaker, i demand a recorded vote. a recorded vote was ordered. the speaker pro tempore. this is a 5-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 211, noes 188, answered ``present'' 1, not voting 33, as follows: [roll no. 33] ayes--211 abraham aderholt allen amodei babin barletta barr barton benishek bilirakis bishop (mi) bishop (ut) blackburn blum bost boustany brady (tx) brat bridenstine brooks (al) brooks (in) buchanan buck bucshon byrne calvert carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot clawson (fl) coffman cole collins (ga) comstock conaway cook cramer crawford crenshaw culberson davis, rodney denham dent desantis desjarlais dold donovan duffy duncan (sc) ellmers (nc) emmer (mn) farenthold fleischmann fleming flores forbes fortenberry foxx franks (az) frelinghuysen garrett gibbs gohmert goodlatte gosar gowdy granger graves (ga) graves (la) graves (mo) grothman guinta guthrie hanna hardy harris hartzler heck (nv) hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. hill holding hudson huelskamp huizenga (mi) hultgren hunter hurd (tx) hurt (va) jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (oh) johnson, sam jolly jordan joyce katko kelly (ms) kelly (pa) king (ny) kinzinger (il) kline knight labrador lahood lamalfa lamborn lance latta long loudermilk love lucas luetkemeyer lummis macarthur marchant marino mccaul mcclintock mchenry mcmorris rodgers mcsally meadows messer mica miller (fl) moolenaar mooney (wv) mullin mulvaney murphy (pa) neugebauer newhouse noem nunes olson palazzo palmer paulsen pearce perry pittenger pitts poe (tx) poliquin pompeo posey ratcliffe reed reichert renacci ribble rice (sc) rigell roby roe (tn) rogers (ky) rohrabacher rokita rooney (fl) roskam ross rothfus rouzer royce salmon sanford scalise schweikert scott, austin sensenbrenner sessions shimkus shuster simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (tx) stefanik stewart stutzman thompson (pa) thornberry tiberi tipton trott turner upton valadao walberg walden walorski walters, mimi weber (tx) wenstrup westerman westmoreland whitfield williams wilson (sc) wittman womack woodall yoder yoho young (ia) young (in) zeldin noes--188 adams aguilar amash ashford bass beatty becerra bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer bonamici boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brownley (ca) burgess bustos butterfield capps cardenas carney carson (in) cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) cicilline clark (ma) clarke (ny) clay clyburn cohen connolly conyers cooper costa costello (pa) courtney crowley cuellar cummings curbelo (fl) davis (ca) davis, danny defazio degette delaney delbene desaulnier deutch diaz-balart dingell doggett doyle, michael f. duckworth duncan (tn) edwards ellison engel eshoo esty fattah fitzpatrick foster frankel (fl) fudge gabbard gallego garamendi gibson graham grayson green, al green, gene grijalva gutierrez hahn hastings heck (wa) higgins himes hinojosa honda hoyer huffman israel jackson lee jeffries johnson (ga) jones kaptur keating kelly (il) kildee kilmer kirkpatrick kuster langevin larsen (wa) lawrence lee levin lewis lieu, ted lipinski lobiondo loebsack lofgren lowenthal lowey lujan grisham (nm) lujan, ben ray (nm) lynch maloney, carolyn maloney, sean massie matsui mccollum mcgovern mckinley mcnerney meehan meeks meng moore moulton murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal nolan norcross o'rourke pallone pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters peterson pingree polis price (nc) quigley rangel rice (ny) richmond rogers (al) roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger russell ryan (oh) sanchez, linda t. sanchez, loretta sarbanes schakowsky schiff schrader scott (va) scott, david serrano sewell (al) sherman sinema sires slaughter speier swalwell (ca) takai takano thompson (ca) tonko torres tsongas van hollen vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky walz wasserman schultz waters, maxine watson coleman welch wilson (fl) yarmuth zinke answered ``present''--1 griffith not voting--33 black brown (fl) capuano chaffetz chu, judy cleaver collins (ny) delauro farr fincher harper issa johnson, e. b. kennedy kind king (ia) larson (ct) mccarthy mcdermott miller (mi) nugent pocan price, tom ros-lehtinen rush smith (wa) stivers thompson (ms) titus wagner walker webster (fl) young (ak) {time} 1256 mr. clawson of florida changed his vote from ``no'' to ``aye.'' [[page h210]] so the bill was passed. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. stated against: mr. mcdermott. mr. speaker, on rollcall vote 33 (on passage related to h.r. 1927), had i been present, i would have voted ``nay.'' personal explanation mr. larson of connecticut. mr. speaker, on january 8, 2016, i was not present for rollcall votes 23 through 33. if i had been present for these votes, i would have voted: ``aye'' on rollcall vote 23, ``aye'' on rollcall vote 24, ``aye'' on rollcall vote 25, ``aye'' on rollcall vote 26, ``aye'' on rollcall vote 27, ``aye'' on rollcall vote 28, ``aye'' on rollcall vote 29, ``aye'' on rollcall vote 30, ``aye'' on rollcall vote 31, ``aye'' on rollcall vote 32, and ``nay'' on rollcall vote 33. personal explanation mr. king of iowa, mr. speaker, i was unable to vote on friday, january 8, 2016. had i been present, i would have voted as follows: ``no'' on rollcall no. 23 (cohen amendment); ``no'' on rollcall no. 24 (conyers amendment); ``no'' on rollcall no. 25 (deutch amendment); ``no'' on rollcall no. 26 (moore amendment); ``no'' on rollcall no. 27 (moore amendment); ``no'' on rollcall no. 28 (waters amendment); ``no'' on rollcall no. 29 (johnson amendment); ``no'' on rollcall no. 30 (jackson lee amendment); ``no'' on rollcall no. 31 (nadler amendment); ``no'' on rollcall no. 32 (democrat motion to recommit); ``yes'' on rollcall no. 33 (passage of h.r. 1927). personal explanation ms. eddie bernice johnson of texas. mr. speaker, i was unable to vote on the following rollcall votes. had i been present, i would have voted as follows: on rollcall vote 2, motion on ordering the previous question on the rule providing for consideration of the senate amendment to h.r. 3762, i would have voted ``no.'' on rollcall vote 3, h. res. 579--rule providing for consideration of the senate amendment to h.r. 3762, restoring americans' healthcare freedom reconciliation act of 2015, i would have voted ``no.'' on rollcall vote 4, motion on ordering the previous question on the rule providing for consideration of both h.r. 1155 and h.r. 712, i would have voted ``no.'' on rollcall vote 5, h. res. 580--rule providing for consideration of both h.r. 1155--scrub act of 2015 and h.r. 712--sunshine for regulatory decrees and settlements act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 6, motion to concur in the senate amendment to h.r. 3762--restoring americans' healthcare freedom reconciliation act of 2015, i would have voted ``no.'' on rollcall vote 7, rep. johnson (ga) amendment 2 to h.r. 712, sunshine for regulatory decrees and settlements act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 8, reps. cummings/connolly amendment to h.r. 712, sunshine for regulatory decrees and settlements act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 9, rep. lynch amendment to h.r. 712, sunshine for regulatory decrees and settlements act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 10, reps. johnson (ga)/jackson-lee amendment 6 to h.r. 712, sunshine for regulatory decrees and settlements act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 11, democratic motion to recommit, h.r. 712, sunshine for regulatory decrees and settlements act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 12, final passage of h.r. 712, sunshine for regulatory decrees and settlements act of 2015, i would have voted ``no.'' on rollcall vote 13, rep. johnson (ga) amendment to h.r. 1155, searching for and cutting regulations that are unnecessarily burdensome act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 14, reps. cummings/connolly amendment to h.r. 1155, searching for and cutting regulations that are unnecessarily burdensome act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 15, rep. cicilline amendment, searching for and cutting regulations that are unnecessarily burdensome act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 16, rep. delbene amendment, searching for and cutting regulations that are unnecessarily burdensome act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 17, rep. cicilline amendment, searching for and cutting regulations that are unnecessarily burdensome act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 18, rep. pocan amendment, searching for and cutting regulations that are unnecessarily burdensome act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 19, democratic motion to recommit, searching for and cutting regulations that are unnecessarily burdensome act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 20, final passage of h.r. 1155, searching for and cutting regulations that are unnecessarily burdensome act of 2015, i would have voted ``no.'' on rollcall vote 21, motion on ordering the previous question on the rule providing for consideration of h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``no.'' on rollcall vote 22, h. res. 581, rule providing for consideration of h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``no.'' on rollcall vote 23, rep. cohen amendment, h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 24, rep. conyers amendment, h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 25, rep. deutch amendment, h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 26, rep. moore amendment 5, h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 27, rep. moore amendment 6, h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 28, rep. waters amendment, h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 29, rep. johnson (ga) amendment, h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 30, rep. jackson-lee amendment, h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 31, rep. nadler, h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 32, democratic motion to recommit, h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``yes.'' on rollcall vote 33, final passage of h.r. 1927, fairness in class action litigation act of 2015, i would have voted ``no.'' personal explanation mr. cleaver. mr. speaker, i regrettably missed votes on january 6, 2016, january 7, 2016, and january 8, 2016. had i been present i would have voted ``no'' on rollcall vote 2, ``no'' on vote 3, ``no'' on vote 4, ``no'' on vote 5, ``no'' on vote 6, ``yes'' on vote 7, ``yes'' on vote 8, ``yes'' on vote 9, ``yes'' on vote 10, ``yes'' on vote 11, ``no'' on vote 12, ``yes'' on vote 13, ``yes'' on vote 14, ``yes'' on vote 15, ``yes'' on vote 16, ``yes'' on vote 17, ``yes'' on vote 18, ``yes'' on vote 19, ``no'' on vote 20, ``no'' on vote 21, ``no'' on vote 22, ``yes'' on vote 23, ``yes'' on vote 24, ``yes'' on vote 25, ``yes'' on vote 26, ``yes'' on vote 27, ``yes'' on vote 28, ``yes'' on vote 29, ``yes'' on vote 30, ``yes'' on vote 31, ``yes'' on vote 32, ``no'' on vote 33. personal explanation ms. delauro. mr. speaker, i was unavoidably detained so i missed rollcall vote no. 23 regarding ``on agreeing to the cohen amendment''. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' i missed rollcall vote no. 24 regarding ``on agreeing to the conyers amendment''. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' i missed rollcall vote no. 25 regarding ``on agreeing to the deutch amendment''. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' i missed rollcall vote no. 26 regarding ``on agreeing to the moore amendment''. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' i missed rollcall vote no. 27 regarding ``on agreeing to the moore amendment''. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' i missed rollcall vote no. 28 regarding ``on agreeing to the waters, maxine amendment''. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' i missed rollcall vote no. 29 regarding ``on agreeing to the johnson (ga) amendment''. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' i missed rollcall vote no. 30 regarding ``on agreeing to the jackson lee amendment''. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' i missed rollcall vote no. 31 regarding ``on agreeing to the nadler amendment''. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' i missed rollcall vote no. 32 regarding ``on motion to recommit with instructions''. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea.'' i missed rollcall vote no. 33 regarding ``to amend title 28, united states code, to improve fairness in class action litigation'' (h.r. 1927). had i been present, i would have voted ``no.'' ____________________