this seems a little far. well, hello, everybody. good evening. this is a slightly different venue. and we normally get the rain, blessing at the, you know, at the bandstand, but this is nice. thank you all very much for being here tonight. and of course, i want to start by thanking all of the candidates who are running for every office from your council, city councils, to the state legislature, because that is where so much of the decisions that are made that impact your lives every single day. so a shout out to all of the candidates who are running for local offices here and supporters, mahalo noi loa. do not you think this is a very, very crazy, bizarre presidential election? and coming here, i did see some trump signs, and i am wondering, hmm, do you know those people? are they neighbors? i am not going to cast this version on them. this is a free country, but this is the most consequential election i would say in our lifetimes. and although we say that every election is crucial, this one truly is, because this is the election where our country decides truly the road and the path of our country. are we going to go down a path that is very negative, divisive, where what i can only characterize as hate speech is deemed okay, or are we going down the path with hillary clinton, where we can look for. yeah. oh! oh! oh! we have these great hawaii hillary t-shirts. so do not you think it is a great design? so if you guys can grab those and wear them, that would be unique. but are we going down the path with hillary clinton, where we can look to create real jobs for folks living in places like west virginia and other places in our country, where the people there really feel as though they have not had a fair shake, or immigration reform, or making sure that everybody has health care and the 20 million people who have health care, thanks to the affordable care act, can still have their health care. college affordability. it is really important for not only for us to elect hillary clinton, because we hardly need to elect somebody who cannot even be trusted with his twitter account. and we cannot have that person with his finger on the nuclear code. i have been campaigning in other states. i was in north carolina, pennsylvania, new hampshire, i started in iowa, and last week i was in nevada. in these states, we have some of the hardest working, most talented, committed women who are going to help us take back the senate so that hillary can get something done as president. and in these four races, they represent four of the 10 most expensive senate races in the country. do you know that the koch brothers, single handedly, are well double? they are spending over $100 million to make sure that the senate remains in republican hands. so when i was in nevada, all day campaigning with catherine cortez-masto, who is going to help us take back the senate, the koch brothers had already spent over $30 million just to make sure she does not get elected. and you know, one of the things that these dark money entities used to do is just buy tv spots, they are getting smart now, they are going out there, they are equipping their door knockers with ipads, with the information, and the kinds of things that we used to do in the grassroots level. so i know many of you have already voted, but you know, we can never take anything for granted down to the last last moment. so when i was in pennsylvania campaigning with katie mcginty, and i said, you know, there is a japanese word for somebody like donald trump. and that word is uji. you heard that word, right? makes your skin crawl. that was picked up by some of the national press, but you know, we cannot have donald trump no way jose. and the other thing that i wanted to mention was a number of you were at the national convention. there was a portion of the national convention that involved the democratic women senators. they did a video of us, and then we all got up and said, what was so important to us about supporting hillary and why? and before we all did that, we submitted a one or two page sort of a write-up of why we supported, why i supported hillary. and i had put on my page something that i tell my staff on a regular basis, and that is that there are people in our country who get screwed every second minute and hour of the day. and if by our efforts we can decrease that number, we will have made a difference. we will be doing our jobs. well, i submitted that to the hillary campaign, and i think they did not want me to stand up in front of a national audience to say people are getting screwed in our country. so that got changed, but in a nice way, to wherever people are not getting a fair shake in our country, hillary stands with them, fights with them to do the right thing. hillary clinton is a kindred spirit with me because she is a policy person with an activist heart, and that is why we all support hillary clinton because we need her, and also all of the senate democrats. we need to take back the senate. mahalo noelal for your continuing support. i have been coming to these rallies for decades. jfra an employee!alet please let your startups in already come! what do you need to be a candidate for? thank you senator yolong.