[congressional record volume 162, number 11 (wednesday, january 20, 2016)] [senate] [page s128] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] remembering archbishop francis t. hurley ms. murkowski. mr. president, this week alaska's faith communities are mourning the loss of archbishop emeritus francis t. hurley who passed on january 10, 2 days shy of his 89th birthday. archbishop hurley will be buried this weekend. archbishop hurley was ordained a priest of the san francisco archdiocese in 1951. he came to alaska in 1970 as the auxiliary bishop of juneau and was elevated to archbishop of the archdiocese of anchorage in 1976. he served a quarter century in that role until 2001. archbishop hurley remained active in the life of alaska's catholics until his death. he had a remarkable career that stretched 45 years. many come to alaska from other places and leave a few years later because they failed to take alaska on its terms. if there is one thing to be said about archbishop hurley it is that he understood what it took to be successful in our remote environment. he not only understood what it took to succeed in alaska. he fully embraced it. he thrived on it. no roads connect the island communities for which the auxiliary bishop of juneau was responsible. bishop hurley might have stayed in juneau and waited for his 4,000 parishioners to come to him. instead he chose the road alaskans would take. he learned to fly so that he could bring the church to the people, and he piloted the diocesan plane for more than 5,000 hours over the course of his career. during his relatively brief tenure in juneau, archbishop hurley created trays on sleighs, an alaska centric interpretation of the senior feeding program known as meals on wheels. he is responsible for three of the most important social service facilities in anchorage; covenant house, which serves homeless youth; the brother francis shelter, which serves homeless men; and clare house, an emergency shelter for women with children and expectant mothers. all of these facilities exist today because archbishop hurley took the initiative to get them built. near and dear to the archbishop's heart was the ``joy community,'' which helped catholics with developmental disabilities prepare to receive the sacraments. and these are just a few of many legacies he has left around the state. he also founded two catholic newspapers: the inside passage in juneau and the catholic anchor in anchorage. you might say that this is all part of a day's work for a catholic bishop. but understand that alaska is a very young state and lacks the infrastructure of more established provinces. what archbishop hurley did is identify the gaps in the social safety net and move forward with a single-minded determination to fill them. archbishop hurley's contributions were international in scope. in december 1990, he traveled with father michael shields to magadan--a city in the russian far east. in a theater, they offered christmas mass--the first public mass in the city's history. three hundred people attended. in the following 3 weeks, signatures were gathered to register a new church, and on january 4, 1991, the church of the nativity of jesus was founded. across the years, archbishop hurley traveled there nine times and, on january 14, 2001, celebrated the parish's 10th anniversary. as you can see, archbishop hurley's contributions were quite substantial. yet he was much more than what he did. archbishop hurley was beloved for whom he was. he was a charming man with a tremendous sense of humor and a knack for remembering names. he was an engaging conversationalist. at times, it seemed like he was everywhere; at baptisms, at funerals, engaged in the political life of the community, tending to the needs of the homeless and the troubled. from the moment he came to alaska, archbishop hurley was a man in motion, and even in retirement, he never slowed down. archbishop hurley, respected by people of all faiths, was truly a central figure in the spiritual lives of alaskans for nearly a half century. every time i pass one of the churches that were built on his watch or the social services facilities he inspired, i will smile and reflect on how blessed i was to know him. ____________________