[congressional record volume 162, number 16 (wednesday, january 27, 2016)] [senate] [pages s247-s248] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] wildfire funding and forest management ms. murkowski. mr. president, i ask unanimous consent to enter into a colloquy with the chairman of the budget committee, senator enzi of wyoming, and the chairman of the agriculture committee, senator roberts of kansas. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered. ms. murkowski. last session, i came to the floor to speak about the significant wildfire provisions we included in the omnibus appropriations bill, why congress could not accept a flawed proposal supported by this administration and a handful of senators, and to outline a path forward on this important issue in 2016. as we begin consideration of the energy bill, i have come to the floor to add further definition to that path forward. as many of you know, wildfire budgeting and forest management overlap jurisdictionally with several other committees so i want to thank my colleagues, senators enzi and roberts, for joining me here. in my view, the time has come to find real solutions to the challenges we face in each of these areas. this crisis has gone on for long enough. it has grown worse and worse. our lands are burning. communities are being devastated. and it is time for congress to act. i want to start first with wildfire budgeting. for some time now, members of this chamber have been talking past each other. before we can come up with a solution, we have to at least agree on the problem we are trying to solve. we have all been saying that we want to solve the problem of ``fire borrowing''--the unsustainable practice of borrowing from non-fire government programs so that fire response activities can continue when wildfire suppression accounts are depleted. one way to fix the problem of ``fire borrowing'' is to continue to fully fund the predicable costs of wildfire suppression, the 10-year rolling average, while allowing access to additional funds through a limited cap adjustment when the agencies run out of suppression funds, for the emergency and unpredictable costs of wildfire suppression. another issue relating to wildfire budgeting is the percentage of the forest service's discretionary budget [[page s248]] spent on wildfire. the forest service has said that it now spends nearly half of its discretionary budget on wildfire. some of our colleagues and this administration have conflated the fire borrowing problem with this budgeting issue. they have sought to shift anticipated wildfire suppression costs off-budget to limit how much of the forest service's discretionary budget is spent on fire with the goal of ``freeing up'' dollars for other programs under the discretionary cap. cap adjustments and budgeting generally are within your committee's jurisdiction. i say to senator enzi. have i properly characterized the wildfire budgeting issues we are wrestling with? mr. enzi. i agree with senator murkowski that fire borrowing has been mischaracterized and conflated with the forest service's overall concern about its discretionary budget. although i recognize the fact that the forest service has serious management challenges, consensus does not exist in the senate to adjust the caps so the forest service can spend more money on other programs within its discretionary budget. that said, congress must find a fiscally responsible solution to wildfire funding and fire borrowing. i welcome the opportunity to review the fire borrowing issue in my committee and how the unpredictable costs of wildfire suppression have forced congress to appropriate emergency dollars in past years. we can find a solution to budgeting for wildfires. we cannot, however, only work on the budget issues without also making changes to the way we manage our forests. it is crucial to ensure taxpayer dollars are being used efficiently and effectively. just as there are many state, local, and federal partners in the field when it comes to suppressing wildfires during the fire season, it is important that all the necessary committees in the senate work together on this issue. i look forward to addressing these issues with senator murkowski and senator roberts, with my committee members, and with other western senators interested in the outcome. mr. roberts. thank you to my colleagues, senator enzi and senator murkowski, for their work on these important issues related to wildfire and forest management. i would like to echo their concerns and share with the rest of my colleagues that i agree with them entirely that this is a critical issue that needs to be addressed. coming off the end of a catastrophic wildfire season with a record amount of acres burned, it is essential that the senate turn its attention to finding a wildfire solution in 2016--and through regular order. as chairman of the agriculture committee, it is my first and foremost priority that the committee serve as the platform for america's farmers, ranchers, small businesses, rural communities--and forest land owners and forestry stakeholders, a constituency sometimes forgotten. as chairman of the agriculture committee, we intend to serve and represent all of agriculture, of which forestry plays an important role. last november, the agriculture committee held a hearing on the effects of wildfire and heard testimony from stakeholders on the budgetary impacts and threats to natural resources on federal, state, and private forest lands. the message from that hearing was unanimous and clear: it is time for congress to act and advocate for solutions that not only address funding fixes, but more importantly advocate for solutions that improve the management of our national forests. h.r. 2647, the resilient federal forests act of 2015, which passed the house last summer, has been referred to the senate agriculture committee. this legislation, while not perfect, includes provisions that attempt to address both the funding mechanism and incorporate meaningful forest management tools which are the paramount issues in the overall wildfire debate. i recognize the challenges that remain ahead with crafting such a legislative proposal that satisfies all interested parties involved in this larger debate. with that being said, i stand ready to work with my colleagues to find areas where common ground and consensus can be achieved to address the overall wildfire issues facing us today. i look forward to working together with senator murkowski, senator enzi, and others to provide the necessary tools to expedite the much needed work on not just western forests, but also nationwide, encompassing federal, state, and private forest lands. ms. murkowski. i thank senator roberts. i look forward to working with him as well. and he is right. the wildfire problem is not just a budgeting problem--it is also a management problem. reforming the way we manage our forests is absolutely crucial. healthy, resilient forests are fire-resistant forests; yet despite knowing the value of fuel reduction treatments in mitigating wildfire risks, increasing firefighter safety, and protecting and restoring the health of our forests, active management is still often met with a series of discouraging and near insurmountable obstacles. high upfront costs, long planning horizons, and regulatory requirements--including what seem like unending environmental reviews-- are impeding our ability to implement treatments at the pace and scale these wildfires are occurring. we must also work with our state agencies, local communities, and the public to increase community preparedness and install fuel breaks to break up fuel connectivity to keep fires small. as you can see here, the chairmen of the committees with jurisdiction over the wildfire budgeting and forest management issues are ready to roll up our sleeves in 2016. we are going to work through regular order, in a transparent and collaborative manner, to come up with a legislative solution. we look forward to the input of our colleagues, who also care deeply about these issues. my plan is to dedicate whatever time we have in february after this bill clears the floor--and the entire month of march--to producing this legislative product. i appreciate members' willingness to work with us and believe we are on a good track to find real solutions to our wildfire challenges. ____________________