best investment we can make. and now donald trump and his co-president, elon musk, want to defund the department of education, they want to dismantle the department of education, they want to privatize public education. and we are here to say no, because as you heard the majority of children in this country go to public schools. public schools are for every student. they do not discriminate. they open their doors to students with disabilities. and what they are doing by trying to defund the department of education, that means fewer resources for students with disabilities on local school boards and states. they do not have the extra funding to fill those gaps. that is what the federal funding is about. it is about equity of opportunity. it is dollars for professional development so our educators can learn the best new ways to teach. it is about well-rounded education, technology, and school safety for students. those are all federal grants that go to our public schools. and that is what is at stake. so we are here to say no, because those dollars, the title won dollars. for schools with high populations of low income students, those make a big difference. again, our local jurisdictions do not have those extra resources to fill in the gaps. so what they are doing by trying to take the funding away and close the department of education is really creating fewer opportunities for students across the country. we say no. and same with privatization. it is a fraction of the students in this country who go to private schools. typically, they are already affording private schools. and it takes money away from public education. i represent portland, oregon, but i also represent a lot of rural areas. and i cannot imagine what they would say. if somebody said, we are taking away your dollars for your public school. it is the heart of your community. we are going to give it. here's a voucher for your kids. they can go to another school. guess what? there is no other school. so it is a backwards way of looking at education. the public schools are here for everyone. i also want to say it is really important for higher education. higher education should be available to anyone who wants it. it is unaffordable, dismantling, and defunding public education would make it even less affordable and less accessible. so this is a wrong direction for our country. we are here to fight this. and as you heard, we just need a few republicans to join with us. but we also have the public with us, because public schools are for the public, and let us fight for them and for public education. great. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. when donald trump and elon musk look at title i funding, they do not see opportunity for working class kids. they see an opportunity to enrich themselves. when donald trump and elon musk and house republicans look at funding for public education, they see dollar signs for their private interest friends. and i do not want anybody here in the media reporting that they are trying to write size government or shrink the size of the federal government. no, they want to redistribute the public funding to their billionaire buddies. that is what they are all about. jeff yass just made a $6 million donation to governor greg abbott in texas, the largest political donation in our history, specifically because he wants public education dollars from the federal government and from our state governments to quit going to public school teachers to public school students and to go to his friends that run private companies that capitalize on our public school dollars. that is what this is all about. it is all a grift. look, no further than the fact that after elon musk invested $250 million in getting donald trump elected, his wealth has grown by $160 billion since the election. they are taking your money. they are trying to take money out of your schools. they are trying to take money from your teachers. they think that your taxpayer dollars are all for them. and it is house democrats, the american public, and we are calling on there just to be a couple of republicans to grow a tiny bit of a spine so that we stop having our taxpayer dollars, our kids dollars, your dollars stolen by people that already have ungodly amounts of money and are determined to take yours. they think that your labor is to make them rich and they think your taxpayer dollars are to make them rich. every time they see a school get renovated, every time they see a teacher get hired, they are asking why those dollars are not for themselves and we are here to stop them. thank you all very much. thank you. thank you. thank you. i am john manion, i am from syracuse, new york. i was a public education teacher for almost 30 years and my wife also a public education teacher for almost 30 years. i taught ap biology, chemistry, and 15-1 living environment. my wife is a reading intervention specialist and has taught at almost every level of elementary school and works specifically with kids on gaining a level of literacy that allows them to be successful. i was also the initial chair of the new york state standing committee on disabilities. i have sat at the committee on special education meetings on both sides of that table. the parents of the children that require individualized services in a public school setting, they want answers. they should have answers. we demand that there be conversations to support these kids. we all need support when we go to school, but some of us need specialized supports. so when we are talking about dismantling the department of education, what we are talking about is larger class sizes. those kids not getting those individualized services. the removal of athletics, arts, science, music. i asked to borrow this tie today. it is not my tie, it is my son's tie. he wore it at band concerts starting in fourth grade in a public school when he learned how to play the baritone. and i am a teacher, which means in fourth grade, i stood behind him and i tied this tie. but you know what happens in public schools? one day that kid comes down the stairs from his bedroom and he is already tied that tie himself, right? and that is what happens in public schools. you gain the skills and the knowledge to be successful. the sign that the leaders of a civilization are not committed to its future is the failure to fund the education of their children. and these people and i will not stand here silently as they steal taxpayer dollars from special education students. we will not stand for it. in front of it, we are not gonna stand for it here. and everything that is happening around this town where the hands are in these departments that have served this country and allowed us to be successful and true to the values that we are supposed to have. we will not stand silent. i will not stand silent. parents, students, we stand with you. thank you. yeah, all right. all right. have fun. trophy. how is everybody doing? good. yeah. i am pissed off. yeah. i am a proud graduate of the public education system. i am the proud son of a mother. my mom just retired as a public school educator of 37 years. teaching special education all 37 years. and education is top of mind for me right now because i got some bad news that two days ago my high school principal passed away, mr. lisby. and i talked about him on the floor yesterday. i was a little bit of a troublemaker when i was a kid, believe it or not. oh, my gosh. there was one day, there was one day in school, i played a prank in the morning that i should have done. and atlanta, me and mr. lisby's office, honestly, i probably should have been expelled that morning. but mr. lisby pulled me aside and said, max, who i think your energy is misdirected? i think you can be great. i am not going to expel you. there is consequences. i am not going to expel you today. and i need you to focus. and that is second chance that he gave me. and that my teachers gave me. i think our part of the reason i am here today is a member of congress. and that story of second chances, that story of love, that story of pouring everything you have into your students is the story of public education. and i know because growing up with my mom, i remember there was a point in time where my mom taught at the same school i went to. it had its blessings and curses. but i would stay up with her late nights in her classroom, watching her do her students' iep, not getting paid more to do it. i would go with her to the store as she spent money out of her own pocket to buy things for her classrooms and her students. and she never called her students her students. she called her students her kids. the department of education is a vital resource, an element of making sure public education is equitable and accessible to every kid. and do not tell me that you think that education is the path to greatness and that education is the great equalizer and then turn around and think that we need to get rid of this building and the people and public servants that work in it to support teachers and education across this entire country. we have to ask why? why do they want to do this? because they want to take everything that we have thought for in this government and privatize it, tear it apart, and give it to the billionaires in corporations. but we say, hell no, not our education. hands off our education. because it is the reason why many of us are here today. it is the thing that sees every kid, whether it is a prankster, whether it is a straight-age student, whether it is a band kid, i am a band kid too. i went to a public art school and band changed my life. the department of education needs to stay. and trump cannot do shit without congress. it is unconstitutional, it is illegal, and we are going to stand here to fight against it. so we are here in defense of our students, in defense of our teachers, in defense of families and communities that are built around public education. and we will not let republicans do this self-fulfilling prophecy where for decades, they have said that public education is a failure. and now they want to make it a failure by taking away the department of education and money. we are going to stand in the way, and we are not going to let them do it. thank you. thank you. buenos dias, everyone. buenos dias. my name is veronica escobar. i represent an economically disadvantaged community, the community of el paso. every single one of our school districts is a title i school district. so my community will be devastated because of what elon musk and donald trump want to do. and look, let us be clear. all of us support more efficient government. we all support getting rid of waste, fraud, abuse, and corruption. so let us start with elon musk's contract of $15 billion. let us start with the fossil fuel subsidies of $700 billion. notice that they are not starting with those big ticket items that they love. they are instead focusing on our kids. our kids, our teachers, our universities, the families in our communities that depend on education. and as greg, my colleague greg from texas mentioned, our institutions in texas, our educational institutions in texas, are under assault by state republicans. and now by republicans at the federal level. and it is not to give the money back to the american people. ok? this is not about refunding tax dollars. you are never going to hear elon musk or donald trump say, we are trying to save money to send it back to you. no, they are trying to defund our institutions, get rid of our federal workforce and her families so that they can line their own pockets. we are not going to stand for it. and to every american, we need you. we need you. call the white house. every american should be flooding the white house phone lines. call republicans in your state. call your us senators. call your us congressman democrats or with you. we see you. we hear you. we are fighting for you. we need you to help us put the screws and the pressure to republicans so that they understand they cannot get away with theft and broad daylight. so all of us are going to keep fighting for you, for this country, for our communities. we need every single one of you to get in the game with us so that we can save the united states of america and save our country. thank you all. yeah. all right. let us see. of all of the civil rights for which the world has struggled and fought for for 500 years, the right to learn is undoubtedly the most fundamental. i am congressman alma adams. and i am a 40-year retired professor who trained at public school teachers. i went to public schools. my children went to public school. my daughter teaches in public schools. all of my children and grandchildren have attended public schools. public schools are for all of our children. and if we get rid of public schools and we get rid of their future, now what is happening here at the department of education is dangerous. it is reckless and it is completely unacceptable. now, elon musk and his unqualified tech minions are breaching federal laws. and we are not going to have it. who knows what they are doing with the information? who knows what they are doing with it? the department of education, if it is shut down, who is going to take care of these 26 million kids who rely on title one funding? who will take care of the 7.5 million with disabilities? who will take care of the millions of students applying for financial aid waiting to hear if they qualify? and if they have the money to go to school? you know, why are political appointees with no experience in education, suddenly making decisions about our children's future? now, i remember abraham lincoln who said that a child is someone who is going to carry on what we started. they are going to sit where we are sitting and when we are gone, they will attend to those things that we think are important. all of our books are going to be judged, praised, or condemned by them. why? because the fate of humanity is in the children's hands. let us continue to make sure that we take care of our children. let us come together. let the parents and the children, and all of us here in congress, we are going to fight. we are going to fight. we are going to make sure that public schools stay intact. this building behind me needs to stay. the people who serve in this building, who work for our children, need to continue to do that work. and let us remember that the future, the future, our future, will depend on the future that we give to our kids. thank you. thank you. good morning, everyone. i really delighted to be here with my colleagues, both on the education and workforce committee, and throughout congress. it is fascinating that they are coming after public education. because when you talk about private schools or vouchers, in these spaces, people get to choose which kind of student they are going to accept. it is the public schools that parents get to decide where their children get to go. and when you think about elon musk and trump, people who have had in their ranks folks who are eugenists, who believe that there are certain types of people that should be alive, should exist, should have opportunities. it should be of concern for all of us. when you have a president who has made fun of people with disabilities, it should be of concern to us. when you have people who have all, as billionaires, gone to private schools, it should be of concern to us. when you hear the nationalized survey lists, they are creating by collecting the private data that is within our government. it should be of concern to us. when you see the kind of conflict of interest, elon musk has with his connections to china. and now his minions have access to the most personal private data of the american public. it should be a national security concern to us. if the american people do not wake up to what is being created, we by not have an opportunity to fight back the authoritarian dictatorship that is in the making. this is not just about going after public education. this is about going after the systems of governance we have in this country. elon musk who grew up in apartheid, trump who worships dictators around the country, and strong men are not interested in our constitutional republic. they are not interested in upholding our democracy. they are not interested in abiding by the constitution as they sidestepped the congressional powers we have in article one. they are not interested in abiding by the court orders that our judiciary system is doing out. so you, the american public, have to stand up. democrats are ready to fight for your rights, to fight for the country we all love, to protect the america that so many people envy. but you have to also be willing to pay attention to what is happening and hold the people you send to washington to represent you accountable. so i am becca ballant. i represent the state of vermont. and i am here as a member of congress. i am here as a former teacher. and i am here as the parent of two kids who are in public school right now. and i am here today to stand up for all those kids and all of those teens that are in public schools across this country. and when we stand in front of this building, i do not see the department of education. what i see is little green street school where my kids went to elementary school. and i see pradoboro union high school where my kids attend school right now. all of us know that when we stand here, we are standing in front of your schools, back home in your districts. that is what this is about. and i am thinking about all of the students that i have had over the years. kids from all different backgrounds who have hopes, who have dreams, and who understand in the most deep way that knowledge is power. knowledge is opportunity. knowledge is their ticket to a better life. and i know that parents and grandparents across this country, they want their kids and grandkids to do better than they did. how is that gonna happen? it is gonna happen through education. that is how it is gonna happen. it is a path to a better life. it is a shot at something. a shot at something better. i do not care if you are an idaho or texas or maryland or maine, you deserve opportunities for your kids and your grandkids. that is why we are out here today. follow the money as so many of my colleagues have said. follow the money. who are they taken from and who are they given to? it is absolutely outrageous that they are trying to take money away from our kids to give it to billionaires. knowledge is power and we need to make sure that we use our power to protect public education. woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! thank you very much, colleagues, for being here. i want to reiterate that we are here on an oversight mission, a congressional oversight mission. that is the constitutional role of congress. we are disturbed that the donald trump has said that he will issue an executive order to dismantle and abolish the part of education. i repeat, he cannot do that. that is illegal. that is a use or patient of power. that is a congressional power. and i am also disturbed that my staff has told me that acting secretary denise carter has locked the doors to the pfals department of education. so what i invite the media and all my colleagues to do is to walk over to those doors and hopefully, acting secretary denise carter will have the decency to reverse the decision to lock those doors. we simply want to have a conversation with her and we have a question to ask her. acting secretary denise carter, will you stand up to a woodbeak who thinks that he can dismantle the department of education without congressional concurrence? he must go through the u.s. congress to take apart a department that was established in law. so colleagues, will you join me and members of the media? will you follow us to those doors? yes, sir. yes, sir. ok. the one of the ads is what you are saying. where you have to have an s. so let me ask you a next one. i ask my question. are you following me today that you have to be out against us in order to come to this department of education? either we are in a meeting. is there a reason for me to come here? i mean, we are in a meeting. i am in a meeting. not even a second before the answer comes in. where you go. sir, not even a conversation signed a letter asking the acting secretary for a meeting, but to answer a simple question. that she is a merely not aware of the meeting. so you have to be on a guest list to mention the department of education? no, i just explained you do not have to be there to be in advance to have access for if you come in, then you have to let us know who you are. i do not know. let us see. we are back from that. that is all we are doing. no one has. i walked into this meeting. we walked in. i think you just have to leave her. i walked in. we were at least allowed to walk into that meeting. i am trying to stop that. it is different to me. you have been stopped at the business test. we are going to stop. i am doing that in a thing. no, no, no. i am using this. we are going to go to the business center. i am under people's ad here. we are going to just wait for the conference. we are going to go to the business center. i am going to stay trying to save your shop. you will not have a job. this is so nice. this is good. you will not have any place. this is good. this is good. we are here speaking for trying to fix the cost of our service. not working. how are you? i am not working. how are you? how are you? how are you? how are you? how are you? how are you? how are you? you are getting a lot of work? how are you? that is what you are treating us like? last year we would be able to walk any good best. i mean, i have been responsible for that business. i mean, i have been responsible for that. right here. i am going to talk to that number. sir. there is nothing. i am going to talk to him right here. no, no, no. i am going to talk to him right there and get it on the record. you did not get a day list. yes, we are responding. i will get somebody to escort us in. you will know this is your own secretary. yeah, that is who we can call your own secretary. not to use this. so what? why are you not letting us in? why cannot we ask for a word? i do not know. why cannot we go in and ask for a word? that is a lot of things. i have never seen that before. why cannot we go in and ask for one? it is usually the least right now that we have come in. we have been to the public in that situation. we got it. this is a hard-to-peerie thing if it is 24 hours with us. a up fan just stands here all night if we can sadden with a... all right, will you just stay right there? who is here and where are you staying with us? why are you letting us go to that place? no, it is over here. we are not in the last two. we are not in the last two. you are being snagged, you are being silly. you are being silly. does anyone must let her in? do you need more words? who do you want to go for? i do not know. are you even allowed to call us? i have four hours for. we try to save your job. i do not know. he is not a general lawyer. i do not know. i am tired of you. what do you want? what do you want? what do you want? i do not know. turn it around. we cannot see anything. i am a federal lawyer. we are not a federal lawyer. we are not allowed to go to that place. we have been allowed to do it past the years. we are allowed to go to that place. we are not allowed to bring you to a criminal limits. we have one-shot amounts. they should come out. we have one. we have one. we have one of those, just like a minimum. we have one. we have one. we have one. let us say, we would like you to go to that place. we are always going to have a meeting. we are not allowed to go to that place. that is good. we are not allowed to go to that place. we are not allowed to go to that place. i am sorry. we told this man here. we told the man that we wanted to meet his parents. he never asked, we were. we were. we were. we were. we were. are you making a decision to come up with a meeting? i do not know. they know. that is the question again. that is the question. are you making this decision to stand in front of the store on your own behalf? on behalf of the north education. or you told the part i am here, and long ago i was congenialized at that time. so everybody's waiting. what is that? what is going on, john? i quit the other side. john, i am not. show me your id. where you are at is this man here. how are you doing? i am not here. i am talking to the congress. this allowed us the access. and the well-tech things that the government has done to them removed. we are allowed in there. so i did not secure any contractor. you know, blocking the members of congress. you are almost a congress. a private security conference is making decisions to block members of congress from access. from a public access center. you have the authority as a private security conference to block members of congress. that has been dilated in grants. now that you have that, let us go to the desk. i am going to go to the desk. what we call it to you, is a new desk. open the door. you want me to say, i am going to go on. you know, the spot is a new class. we are not dangerous people. we are not, i do not know, the security. there are no thieves and thugs out here. we are members of congress. with airs, we are teachers. each of us is under its name. we are elected. this is our job. this is our job. where do we are? your security is building against who? members of congress. members of congress. the people. this is beginning up full transparency of this administration. the administration that talked about is going to open the doors to all of these things and show the american public what is going on. they do not even open the door to this building. no, they are not posing any threat here. we are not dangerous people. we have not done anything. we are trying to request a meeting and they want they have a private security contractor. on his is making decisions on behalf of the department of education. so, i am so proud of the hays, which are saying they allow billionaires and its millions to come in to this building. i do not know who it is, but i know i am all. and i am a member of congress with oversight responsibilities trying to request a meeting and a private security contractor is not allowing me to take the bill. they allow billionaires to go in this building, but not the people's representatives. they allow billionaires and their counties to go in, but not there is a lock of transparency here. members of congress, the people who have things are not allowed in. this is not transparent. they are locking our kids around. not all of them are they not letting us in. now they have called the department of homeland security. we are members of congress, you can call them. we have to be department of education, and they are creating. yes, yes. i do not want to break your head. this is a public excuse. let us take care of it.