hi there, welcome. my name is frank sherry and welcome to congressman mark decano's first youtube town hall. my name is frank sherry. i am the founder and executive director of a group that works on immigration policy called america's voice. and over the next hour we are going to be taking your questions and hearing from congressman decano and myself on the topic of comprehensive immigration reform. as you all know, congressman mark decano represents california's 41st congressional district. and if you would like to participate tonight's town hall, the way you could do so is to enter questions in the comments section below on the screen or on facebook and twitter using the hashtag, tocano town hall. without further ado, let me introduce congressman mark decano and wendy tells us a little bit about yourself before we get into it. well, thank you frank. thank you for helping me co-host this really significant event. i believe it is maybe one of the first attempts of a united states congressman to communicate with his constituents via this technology. i am really excited. my name is congressman mark decano. i represent the 41st district, which includes the cities of riverside, marino valley, rupa valley, and the city of paris and a lot of unincorporated area known as the mead valley. before i became a member of congress and last november's election, i worked as a high school teacher. i taught english for 23 years. some years i taught social studies. i have also been an elected trustee at riverside to me. college is for 22 years. i am really excited tonight to discuss with members of the public some very important legislation that just passed the senate not too long ago. the senate passed its version of comprehensive immigration reform. i am very excited about what is in it. i am hopeful that the house will do much to meet the senate and to include much of what the senate has already included in their bill. so, without further ado, let us get right to it. we have a number of your questions that you have already submitted to us. we will be taking questions this evening. by the way, i hope this will encourage, this evening show will encourage many of you to subscribe to our youtube channel. you can do that by going to below the screen. press or click on the subscribe button. terrific. yeah, let us talk a little about the senate bill. it is quite remarkable at this time of hyper partisanship that you have a bipartisan vote of 68 to 32 by more than a two-to-one margin in the senate for comprehensive immigration reform. it is worth just understanding some of the elements of it because they interact in a way that really promise to solve this problem in a very significant way. so, it combines border security, the toughest border security in american history. some of us would argue maybe too much in terms of what they ended up in the bill, but very strong border security. a mandatory employment verification system designed to turn off the magnet of unauthorized hiring. so, it would be harder in the future for people to come across and get jobs and it will hold employers accountable to make sure everybody is playing by the same rules. that is combined with increased legal immigration both at the low end in terms of agriculture and needed low skilled workers as well as additional visas for high skilled workers for our high tech companies. then perhaps the most controversial but as nearest and nearest to my heart and i believe yours is the idea of 11 million people who are living and working in the united states will have a chance to get legal status in over many years if they meet criteria of studying english and paying taxes and keeping a clean record and working hard can have the option of one day becoming a citizen of the united states. so, those are the elements mark and i am just interested in your take is you are a pretty strong advocate of immigration reform. are you encouraged by the senate's bill and do you think the house has a chance to pick up where the senate left off? well, i am very encouraged by the senate's bill. there is been a pattern here on capitol hill since i was sworn in on january 3rd. that pattern is the senate passes important legislation. anything substantive is passed by the senate by fairly overwhelming numbers and that really prompts the house into doing the right thing. it happened with the superstorm sandy earlier this year when the house could not vote on a $60 billion bill to help the northeast after superstorm sandy. you might recall that governor christie really called out speaker banner and the republican caucus for their extremism and lo and behold in the first two weeks of my term, the house, we voted on a package that came to the house for and a majority of the house did vote for. most of the democrats and about 60 republicans voted for it. same thing happened with the violence against women's act, women's act, same pattern, overwhelming support in the senate and the house republicans groveled about it but eventually they recognized that it was important to the right thing and they allowed a vote on it. i think that the same thing is going to happen with immigration reform. that it is the right thing for our nation to do. you are seeing former president bush, both president's bush, and jen bush, gordon norquist, the wall street journal, all conservative voices in our country, joining progressive voices in our country. when you see that happen, i think you know that something's going to happen on capitol hill. i feel the momentum despite what we are seeing now in the media that congress has over immigration reform is on life support. i think we have a great chance to pass it. well, i agree. i think this is the best chance we have ever had and as someone who worked hard on the senate bill, i felt like we were in the third quarter of this debate on immigration reform but as you know, when the things start in the house, we are now in the first quarter of the house. that is great. we have a way to go. let us get to some of the questions that people have sent in. matt shepard is asking a question. do you think that granting a path to citizenship will encourage more people to enter the country illegally? congressman? well, matt, if we adopt the senate version or something like it in the senate version of the house, the answer to your question is no. and here's why. in the senate bill that was just passed, you need to prove that you have been undocumented in this country, living in this country for at least two years prior to the end of 2011. so before december 31, 2011, you have to document that you have been a resident of the united states for at least two years to even qualify for the pathway at the citizenship. now, in addition to that, the senate bill also contains fairly strict use, some of the mandates that employers will begin to use eu verify, which is an electronic verification system that employers must use to verify that you are here legally and can work in the country legally. so there is two parts of law one, the law that states, the law par law states you must be, you have to document that you have been here for these two years. and i think there'll be a huge distance of for people to come here if they know they cannot so easily get work here. yeah, you know, i am a, i am a working on immigration policy for three decades and i have to say that this proposal has the best chance of really solving the problem once and for all. no piece of legislation can solve such a complex phenomenon perfectly. but i think we can reduce illegal immigration to a trickle and i think we can have the incentives so that people here are illegal, people who are being hired are here illegally, people coming in the future are coming legally. i think we can all agree that coming over the border with a smuggler and being exploited is no comparison to the idea of coming legally and being able to, to be here with dignity. yeah. so we have questions. we sure do. we have a question on border security. this comes from kevin baldwin. how do they plan on funding 20,000 more border patrol agents when they cannot afford the ones they have now? well, frank, i am going to mention a few things. you probably are much more an expert on this than i am. but the, i do know that when people apply for what is known as permanent registered or registered provisional, registered provisional immigrant status, it is not permanent residency. it is not a green card. people cannot get a green card for at least 10 years. and then they have a green card for three years for total of 13 years before they can become a citizen. so what i do know is that they do pay a fine of a thousand dollars when they apply for this status and then they have to reapply for an extension of that status. and then when they get the green card, they have to pay another fee there. so there are fees involved and maybe you can explain more. yeah, that is correct. actually, the, the senate bill is self financing. it will cost taxpayers no money at all. now, some of the money will come certainly from undocumented immigrants who are applying for this provisional status. but a lot of the money comes from high-tech companies and other employers who will be sponsoring immigrant workers to come in and fill jobs for which americans are not available. that is really where the big money comes in. what big money comes in? so it is not necessarily the one thousand dollar fines, the cumulative credit card. but it is part of the small part of it. but it is part of the small part of it. the actual bigger part of it is going to come from, you know, micro and microsoft and the federal and other companies applying for what is called h1b visas. the fees are going up substantially. so the board of control agents, the increase of 20,000 that was added to the senate bill. it was really responsible for getting enough republican votes to get it across the finish line. it will come from these fees and fines. and in fact, the congressional budget office, which studies these things and how they score bills is very important, they found that this bill, even after the significant expenditures on immigration enforcement, will end up reducing the federal deficit in the first ten years by something like $138 billion. and in the second ten years, an additional 650 billion. so almost $1 trillion in deficit reduction from a bill that is self-financing. so if you are a taxpayer who wants strong enforcement, but you do not want to have extra taxes paid for it, this is kind of your bill. so actually, this bill actually pays for enforcement that we would not pay for otherwise. we do it piecemeal. we do it piecemeal. it becomes harder when it is that. imagine too. we try to do just security enforcement and we do not tie it to some sort of revenue source. it becomes more important. it is going to be interesting because as you know, house republican leadership says we have to do something. but if they end up getting to know, and let us hope it does not, we both want this bill to pass, something to pass that is really going to be workable, if they get to know all of this extra enforcement, that republicans say they insist on, it is not going to be there. well, it is not going to be there. wow. all right. should we get to our next question? yes. lily estell, i hope i have got that correct lily. i want to know what the house will do to make sure that families are not split up due to mixed immigration status. so let me explain for our viewers who do not know. it is not like undocumented immigrants live in one neighborhood and immigrants with legal status live in another. they often live in mixed status families so that think of a wedding or a family reunion with 100 people at it. you might have 50 who have legal status, some citizens, some legal permanent residents, another 20 who have some sort of temporary status, and another 30 who have no status. so this is what the academics call mixed status families. and in recent years, many mixed status families have been broken up by pretty harsh deportation policies. the question is, what can legislation do to help those families who have been suffering family separation in recent years? i will tell you one thing mark, that is not well known. in the senate bill, not only are there provisions to make sure families can stay united and can reunite more quickly than they can under current law. there is a provision that quite frankly makes my progressive heart sing, which is that there is a waiver for people that have been deported away from their loved ones who have close family members and they were deported due to no... it is a mother, it is a queer parents, spouse. you do know about this situation. you have got studied up by this. it is a main matter. oh my god, you have actually read the bill. you are not a thou house. people say it is a thousand pages, they are exactly right. if you do a work, it is less than an average harry potter book. do not you believe those people who say it is a thousand pages, but people have not read it? it is not the most interesting reading. no, it is not. so if you have parents or spouse that was deported, but they were here, they were deported for criminal activity. no, it was just for being here without papers. that is right. the only grab you committed was being without papers. and it is not like you were deported because you committed a felony, a violent crime, something like that. you can apply for what is called registered, provisional immigrant status. and so there is hope for these families to be reunited. it is a remarkable thing. many families that have been ripped apart are going to have the chance to be reunited if this bill gets across the family. i have to believe that is why so many, there is some actual conservative christian groups that have... i care about family, we all care about families, but i am a really old plan. i have seen so many elements of america come to get behind this. is this your recognition of humanity? that is what it is wonderful. mark, i am interested in your district. do you come across young people who call themselves dreamers? i have been an educator. i have actually taught students and personally experienced the despair of some very, very talented students who said, you know, mr. tukano, i do not know how i am going to be able to go to college. why should i even put effort into working hard? and you know, i would have to take them aside and say, well, you just need to work really hard and just have faith that our country is going to the right thing. of course, california is one of the states that has passed the california dream out. and what does that mean? what are four dreamers? dreamers are young people who came to this country through no fall of the room. they are brought here by the parents. they might have been little kids, they might have been teenagers, they were below the age of 18. many of them are culturally american. they may not speak a lot of more latinos, but a lot of them are from asia or other countries. they speak, they do not speak of the language they came from. if they were to be sent back to their own countries, it would be a very cruel thing to do. it is like putting an american in a foreign country and saying, you know, this is, we are going to send you there. so the dream act is about people who aspire to be americans and want to partake in the american dream. and so we call these kids dreamers as a very short hand. and i am happy to say that this legislation, when i said it, gives them a fast track and does not burden them with the fines that the parents or adults undocumented will have to pay. they have a five year instead of a 13 year pathway. they have to graduate from high school. is that right? they have to... or have served in the military for years. if you are below the age of 18, still only one of these younger dreamers. of course, those conditions will not apply. but as a teacher, i can say that this is a very, very thing to do. it is going to mean that we can take advantage of some really, really wonderful students. there is been some examples of even some people in medical school who were dreamers. it is just crazy that we would throw a roadblocks underway. but people struggle in because they have to pay out of state tuition. if we can simplify it and avail these young people of and invest in them, they are going to get for a country. they are inspiring and the idea of... i will tell you frank, someone who was the president of the riverside city college campus student body. she was a president. she was a dreamer. i mean, she had transferred to ucr. and as you know, getting into the uc system is really quite an achievement. it is much, much harder to become a student at the uc system these days. she was a dreamer. she is an example i am talking about. it is amazing. head to the student body. alright, let us go back to the questions we have here. our next question comes from kenneth smith. he asks, what do you think is the best way to keep the good immigrants that can contribute to our society and keep out the ones that are criminals? so this is a question that i get a lot. i get a lot of people understand that in this bill and under current law, if you commit a crime, you are gone. you are much heavier pressure than i mean, definitely more pressure than a native born citizen. you can commit crimes as a country or a citizen and you will never have your citizen stripped of you. under this bill, during your registered provisional immigrant status, which is 13 years long, you commit three crimes. three administrators are a felony. you are out of here. one felony, right? this is one felony. and before you can even, there is a background check. when you apply for registered provisional immigrant status, there is a background check. there is any criminal history, no go, no status. you are not on the pathway to citizenship. more than this, on the other side of this bill does encourage and give a way, give a pathway for our companies like facebook, google, our high-tech companies, not just internet companies, but our biotech firms, companies that need people who have phds in the sciences and mathematics to retain some of our best graduate students and to actually bring in folks. a good chunk of our medical doctors are actually foreign trained. we have a great and wonderful country. people still want to come here because we are such an dynamic society and they do not have an economic economy. i mean, the way we benefit and keep our edges is that we stay true to our values and we are in a attractive country, no doubt about it. but we attract some of the best minds around the world into our country. can i ask you about your district when you travel and you talk to employers? do people talk about immigration and its role and their growth in their companies? what kind of employers and what kind of workers they are looking for? yes, they talk about the need, well, i actually have agricultural concerns. so they tend not to be the highly skilled, but they need the most motivated workers. and, you know, agricultural work is sweaty, hot, especially in the hot, sunny california sun and the desert. it is really, really hard work. if you are around citrus, you know, there is thorny trees. they call it on the scale, but it is actually quite highly skilled. but, you know, very few native-born americans are really willing to do that to work and that is the truth. we benefit from comparatively low cost food, compared to other countries. part of the reason why is we have had agricultural workers come in. so there is a great need for agricultural workers. and, you know, the farmers i know are one of the top priorities after water for california. indeed. indeed. and there is a very strong tradition. i have been to silicon valley and i have spoken to employers there. and they are very worried about, you know, having a workforce that is really highly skilled and highly trained. so, we would like or not. i mean, we did pass the affordable health r act. it is going to give, in my district, 20% more people access to medical insurance. we are facing the shortage of medical doctors. we have a new school of medicine to university of california, but it is, you know, we are going to need to bring in as many foreign trained doctors as possible. that is going to be part of what we do to meet the new needs there. terrific. all right. let us go to our next question. this is a question from deb meeker. she asks, how can the gop deny bipartisan immigration reform after every single demand they had was met by the senate bill? sorry, i have to look at deb. let me go to my heart, your question, because lord knows, especially this border security amendment gave republicans everything they wanted, a doubling of the border patrol. you have got triggers in the bill that will make it hard for people to complete the path to citizenship, unless the security measures, such as mandatory e-verifying and entry exit system and the extra-border patrol and the extra-fencing are in place. and yet, mark, when the bill came over here to the house, and we are sitting in a beautiful house building here, some of the republicans said, not good enough. yeah, i think these republican members come from districts, frankly, where there is scared facing a primary opponent that is going to play upon the fears of the people in our districts. and that is just sort of the downside of states that through such polarized districts in california, we had an independent commission to do it, not a political, politically motivated state legislature. and so, we are seeing some of the structural consequences. so, some of these republicans, i believe, are not as harsh as what they make out to be. i mean, really, but if they did not have such districts where they were always looking over their right shoulder, protecting their right fling, they might be more reasonable. even so, oddly enough, i believe that if the senate bill was able to come to the floor right now, it did not have a strong chance of passing. in fact, harry reid states that it would pass the house by strong numbers. i am not 100% sure of that, but i already told you earlier in the show. so, you need 218 votes. how many can there is 201 democrats? how many democrats do you think would vote for it? which are guests? my guess is close to 195, maybe even... we would lose one or two, maybe four or five. but, you know, if someone like darlyssa, you know, who is no... i mean, darlyssa is somebody that is taking the president of the task and the irs, but he used to come out and said he believes in a pathway to citizenship, which is the sticking point of republicans. if someone like darlyssa is saying that, i have to believe darlyssa probably represents maybe another 20, 25 votes. and i bet you there is more votes out there on republican side. i think the struggle is how to just bring this bill to the floor. so, i do not know if i did not want to sort of speculate out loud because i do not want to give away the gating of my dinner. right, what you mentioned some of these other bills before, can we just... i mean, so, speaker bainer seemed to be pressured from his right flank into saying, we have to observe this so-called hastert rule, the majority of the majority. if the bill was brought up right away, you know, 25 republican votes added to the democrats and it would pass. he says we need something like 120 republicans. right. i mean, honestly, has he stuck to that through thick and thin or is that something he has to say? what is your take on? well, you know, why would they feel compelled to do it? i mean, suddenly invoked it now when they clearly did not do it on superstorm sandy, funny. when they did not do it in the violence against women act. you know, there is a time when you do... when you have to do something for the country, for the good of the country, that you have to overcome these procedural rule of blocks. let me just say, let me mention again, if you like what you are hearing or you find this engaging information, please subscribe to my youtube channel by going to the bottom of the screen below the image here. there is a subscribe button. click on that and you will have access to our content on youtube. let us see. we have any more questions coming up. we do. this is a question that comes from max cotterill. i hope i am pronouncing that correctly, max. if the immigration passes, what changes will we see immediately? well, i do not know how many of this will happen, but you know, max, interested enough in our own press enterprise, about a month ago, was published of peace. in fact, me get the reporter's name, because i know a lot of our viewers are from riverside. it is written by dave olson. he actually took the idea of this article from the washington post. there was a analysis done on how immigrants, if they have a pathway, they are somehow documented in this country, are eligible to buy homes that housing values will actually go up. in the short term, they also have grants go up. but in the inlet empire, we have got a, we have got a, you know, we are a ground zero for the mortgage crisis. and we have a lot of people who lose mortgages or sort of underwater. they are upside down and their own values. i think that we have a great chance of clearing out this problem by having immigrants who, you know, they form, they are very entrepreneurial. they are very eager. they often have young families. they want to get in the homes. they are going to add, i think, a force in the housing market. also, in the aggregate nationally, you know, most economists believe that our economy will grow faster if we allow immigrants to come in full force, the commodity chow's. and interestingly enough, it manifests itself in immigrants are not afraid to suddenly demand that they are paid the minimum wage, for example. right. and look, they are not taking jobs from people. they already are doing these jobs. just employers. i mean, so let us get that straight. they already are doing these jobs. it is not like they are taking jobs from people. but, but see what happens. they demand the minimum wage. they get paid slightly higher. but that adds up incrementally. it does. and that does not mean they spend more money in the economy. that is more demand. that is one of our problems that are already coming right now. not enough demand. some more demand will multiply in a very interesting way, which will mean actually more employment for those who are incumbent citizens here. exactly. yeah. no, the research on this, the economics is really clear. i am sure you saw david brooks, the conservative columnist for the new york times, this gets back to dems question about why the excuses. and he just slayed all of the arguments against the bill coming from some republican parties. he says, you want to reduce illegal immigration? this bill does it. you want to reduce the deficit? this bill does it. you want to grow the economy? this bill does. i should. yeah. those are really better. i mean, even what you said, if you want to reduce the deficit before congress immigration informed, if you want to make social security more secure, you are right. social security, it actually extends the salmone's period. and why is that? well, immigrants are largely of working age. we have incumbent citizens, people who are citizens now. we have a lower birth rate. frankly, we are less fertile. people tend to have less children once they are more well to do, they enough. but the immigrants are, you know, they are younger. they have children. these children are going to populate our country and be the source of the human resource. and the countries like japan are, and europe, the european countries are in trouble because their populations are aging. and they do not have quite the same kind of mechanism for immigrants to be welcomed into the economy. here's another question. and this may be a technical question. maybe max wanted some clarification. this is from rashid nawaz. rashid asks, after passing immigration reform, how much time is required for rpi status? i mean, let me just, i could, because i do not, i think maybe max was asking, what happens immediately? if the bill is signed into law, what will happen is that anyone who is, what they call, prime aphasia eligible, anyone who can make a showing that they would be eligible for this rpi status cannot be detained and deported. so the sort of deportation machinery that is in place now, of course, unless you commit a serious crime, if you commit a crime, you are still going to be deported. but if you are driving without a license or you are, you know, police at a checkpoint stop you and you can say, look, i am eligible for this, for this, you will be able to let go immediately. it will take about a year to set up the program before you could apply for rpi status. and then they, we expect the eligibility period for the application, they had to say one year in the bill, but there is an extension for 18 months. so we think it will be about two and a half years. but the other question is, what happens, you know, how long are you in rpi status before you can be eligible for permanent results here at green cross? it is 10 years right for our rpi status. if, you know, unless you are a dreamer or unless you are also proven to have a conduct, you have worked in agricultural industries. correct. in case you have a fast track, it is five years of year, which i think it is like six years, is not like that for extra years. yeah, i am not quite sure. 100% sure, but you have to document that, that is at us. you, i think it is initial six year status and then, you have to go through a renewal. no, renewal after those six years, if you renew that. so it is sort of a trial period. you are a visual status and you are, you have to really kind of earn your, your way here. look, i mean, you know, for many advocates, let us be honest, that is, it is, it feels very long. we are glad about the dreamers getting fast track. we are glad that agricultural workers will have a bit of a faster track. there is even people who have temporary protected status who have been here for 10 years, who will immediately move towards citizenship. but why the 10 years, and i will tell you the main reason is this, is that there is an interaction between the legalization process and the changes in phase two. the changes in family immigration. so right now, there is over four million people who are waiting in line to come into the united states through family sponsorships. and there is an argument, i think it is a solid one, that look, the people who are waiting in line should not be put at the disadvantage of people who are here without papers. so the way the system is going to work is that all 4.7 million people in the backlog will have to come in to the united states over a decade before the first person who is legalized with rpi status can then get a green card. because when you come in on a family visa, you get a green card right away. the equity consideration is people who are waiting in line, she gets her green cards before people who are getting legalized. this question comes up a lot, i see on line. so the senate bill requires that the backlog be taken care of first before anybody of the 11 million here who are undocumented, receive a green card. they cannot get a green card before people who are in line legally. so i want to repeat that because i hear a lot of complaints. i have been waiting in line legally and why should these people, you know, you are concerned it is been taken care of. if you have been in line, you followed the rules, you under this law have priority over the other people who are trying to apply to come in. now let me also say that the other immediate thing to answer max is there is another, there are other answers to max's question in order to make it more complete. the secretary of homeland security has to establish a plan to secure the southern border. right. they have to certify a plan. and even before we can, there is some triggers in the law. they have to certify that even if you have to plan, there is a process by which the plan has to be implemented and shown to be effective. if not, there is a board commission that is going to be set up and before anybody can get a green card, they are going to have to take care of the board. so the board security does come first prior to anyone actually getting a citizenship. that is exactly right. so there is a whole mechanism for the board security stuff to also be put in place immediately after the bill is passed. well, the questions are rolled again, congressman. okay. there is a lot of things to do. here we go. this is from somala. what happens to immigration reform if the house refuses to vote on the senate bill and or it does not draft one of their own? well, i am sorry to say that if that scenario comes to pass and it will be a heartbreak for 11 million people. it will be a heartbreak for me. and i think we will be a diminished, well, diminished possibilities because of that. we will still be america. we will know that about that. we are still a great country. not as great a country as i would hope that we could be. so, yeah, the similar to that is that it takes both the house and the senate to re-unstain both for the president and the senate. and otherwise it is a cool off. all right, the next question comes from zanidea 211. will all employers be required to use e-verify? my first thing is, yes, it is going to be phased in, i think, over a five-year period. but both large and small employers want to use it. yeah. when they start with the biggest employers that they think are the major. they try to give small businesses a chance. there is some expense involved in using e-verify, the technology, et cetera. and they are going to have to work out the bugs. yeah, there is some stakes. but that is the deal. i mean, the idea is that we can raise 11 million people so that they have status. and you make sure that employers are held accountable for what they are going forward. the combination is probably our best chance ever to have an immigration system in which immigrants are here. legally, they are on a path to citizenship and the people who come in the future come legally. let us go to chris bittner. why do we need immigration reform? we already have laws in place. all we need to do is enforce them. please tell me why this reform is any different. well, there are some differences from the last time that we did reform in 1986. actually, there is enhanced board security. which is paid for by giving a pathway to both the 11 million people who are already here. is it chris who said there was a question? yes, chris bittner. chris, you know, we have to really grapple with this 11 million undocumented number. i want you for a moment to just imagine what it would mean to enforce what the law is to the letter. in this case, how impractical that would be to try and round up 11 million people and send them underway. the expense of that, just to share a cost of that. what that would do to our society, it is very complicated. i mean, there is complex relationships. it is not like frank said earlier. these 11 million people just live in separate neighborhoods. they are often in mixed households. you would be separating families. you would be disrupting businesses. it is not like these people are unemployed. so on the one end, i think it is a very extreme. people are not really thinking when they say, why cannot we just enforce the law? will enforce the law? would that mean mass deportations of a lot of million people? i think they really thought about it and they would see that is kind of unreasonable. yeah, i think there is some validity to the argument that, hey, people broke the law. what is proportionate to that breaking the law? we cannot do these 11 million people in jail. either that would be very costly. i think the law does attempt to address that by saying you have a fine, the pay. you do not get citizenship right away. you still have to kind of do some sort of penance, a 10-year penance. you are paying taxes all this time. you are actually really benefit most times. no services. so there is a compromise. sometimes in the law, you have to recognize reality. and to say enforce the law is not always the practical right thing to do. but yet, we are in nation of laws. and i think we have got to reconcile. the law is also about balance. also about balance in a sense of fairness and a sense of compassion. you cannot apply the law without compassion. so i think we have a lot to gain as a country by recognizing the reality of 11 million people be here. most of these people, i mean, most of these folks are hard-working people. they are young. they are working age. they are younger. they are going to make our country stronger. and we need to square how we do it with the legal realities. yeah. i want to take a crack at this question to chris. because look, the reason we came up with this whole idea of comprehensive reform is the following. we have gone from 1000 border patrol agents to 21,000 border patrol agents over the last two decades. we have 650 miles of fencing. the problem is that we have a keep-out sign at the border and a help wanted sign about 100 yards in. so what do you do about that? the proposal is mandatory e-verify. so you make every employer accountable. and if they hire people who are here illegally, they get stiff fines. and it becomes a new labor market norm that we are not going to wink and nod and look the other way. but if you do mandatory e-verify when you have eight of the 11 million unauthorized or undocumented immigrants in the country working, what happens to those people? are they going to pick up and go home? that self deportation thing has been tried in a few states. does not work. what it does is it tends to drive people further underground. where you have people more scared. where they are more... it is easier to take advantage of them and to exploit them. and so the employers who are gaming the system, reap the benefits and the decent employers get undercut. and american workers get undercut as well. while immigrant workers are exploited, the idea is to clean the slate, bring those workers out of the shadows so that everyone is starting on a level playing field. well, what do you do about the people coming in the future? you make sure that if they come, they come legally. and that is why you have visa programs at the low end and the high end of the labor market that complement rather than substitute workers. that is the idea. that is how it all works together. i hear from your question, is you want this problem stopped? it is my honest view that comprehensive immigration review gives us the best chance. not to stop it completely because we are not going to have a berlin wall. even the berlin wall was not 100%. but we are going to have a system where we have very strong enforcement with different layers of it. and we are going to have a functioning legal immigration system. so the incentives are for employers and workers to get together legally. and we are not going to have 11 million people who are subject to exploitation and live outside the framework of our laws. that is the combination. so i get your urgency. i am hoping that you see that this combination of elements really gives us a chance to have a 21st century immigration system that can solve the problem. all right, i will get off my hobby or i said we will get on to the next question. tom sikarta. during the background check, if a criminal record is found, what happens to the person? are they sent home? i wonder if he is maybe asking about the process by which people come forward and apply for the rpi status or the registered. i actually do not know the answer to this question. i think this is one that is going to be worked out in regulation. yeah, i do know that the intent a lot is that you do not get rpi status. you do not get registered provisional status if you have criminal records. we were talking a serious criminal record here. if you committed crimes, imagine violent crimes, crimes where you have been fraudulent or something. clearly the law is attempted to root out people who are a dutchman's society. but as far as the actual legal process, that is something i think that usually goes to a regulatory determination by the justice department or someone's going to have to lay down these regulations. i mean, here's the other thing that is become increasingly true in recent years. is that even if you have a minor infraction, if you are here in the country without papers, you get turned over to ice or the board of patrol and put on the process to detention and deportation. there are people here who do not have papers who have committed crimes. but i suspect they are not going to be the ones who are coming forward to apply for this because they know that they will not be eligible for it and they could get picked up. but to a large extent, even people who have committed very minor infractions have been sucked up. i mean, we are deporting 400,000 people a year. yeah, the record to the prior person was a chris's question about why do not we do some forestal law? chris. chris, it is very expensive to try to enforce the law. we could allocate more and more and more money to enforcement, but it is expensive to deport people. i am not saying double. i mean, this administration has deported, believe it or not, the obama administration has deported record numbers of people under the 1986 law. that is part of the unwirkerability. it seems a little bit odd to say that, but why is it unworkable? it is incredibly expensive to do it. you have to go through a whole process and you would not want just a rough shot and enforcement because you do not want to pick up people who are american. you have to do it right. so we have deported more people, this administration has deported more people. you said it is like 400,000. 400,000 a year? 400,000 a year. it is record rates. and the priority is, of course, people who have had any kind of criminal infractions. criminal infractions. and, you know, i believe that the administration was corrected to defer deportations of deferred actions on young kids. and what uses it to try to use the enforcement mechanisms now is going to enforce now. we could make a choice. so why not enforce the law now? we could spend a lot more money. but it still does not solve the problem. how do we solve this problem for the future? how do we implement the u-verify? the structure of this law actually pays for its solvents. all right. we have got a couple more questions that we want to get in before town hall ends. let us say, maria, they got to see up. i have paid taxes. what are my chances of becoming legal, even if immigration reform does not pass? well, i do not know how to answer that. yeah, i think we should do legal assistance by town hall. i think it is very difficult for me. i think that is your best hope is immigration reform. for many people it is, right? see, this is the myth. i mean, maria knows she wants to be in the system. and if there is no line to get into, what does she do? it takes an act of congress to create a line for maria to get into so that she can get right with a law. it says she pays taxes, so she could mean that she is paying sales taxes. actually, many undocumented unauthorized workers are not actually paying their pay and social security. and also income tax, probably. some of them are using what is called an itin and paying their money. they are actually paying income taxes, which sounds like what that is what they do. so here's a person who is actually working. and it is very difficult for these freedom-witted fraudulent sort of get other kind of public benefits. so here's the case of someone who is working and, as you say, wants to be part of the system. so the best hope for maria is that we have passed comprehensive immigration reform. and maria, i have been working on this for three decades. again, we have never had a better chance than we have this year. if god forbid it does not happen, do not give up hope. i think we have turned the corner. i think that it is a matter of when, not if. and with folks like congressman ticano and many others, i just think that you see democrats really leaning into this in a way that sometimes in the past, some democrats did not. you have republicans really seen that it is an imperative for the economy and for their political future and for what is right. so i think that we cannot give up hope. i think we are on the road to victory, it is just a matter of when. all right, let us see. our next question comes from ali hassan. have the house dems considered a plan to use a discharge petition to move the senate bill along? ali, are you a plan? this is one of our secret ideas and we are now talking about it on a u-togged-down hall. well, actually, my one explain what a discharge petition is. i saw this on rachel malam's like kind of daringness. yes, yes. a discharge petition is actually a petition that started by members of the congress, members of the house. so speaker banner has a lot of powers, the speaker when he says, i want to invoke the house of rule. if a majority of my caucus, the republican caucus does not want this, then i am not going to bring it to the floor under the rules of procedure. there is a way out of that, which is if members of the house sign a petition and we get to 218, that already says that the constitution is not the will of the house. i suppose that is sort of the house equivalent of a nuclear option. it is, right? this is our nuclear option. i suppose, you know, the thought is entered in my mind. well, that is actually correct. that is not that i suppose. the thought has not entered in my mind. so there are ways to go around it. but, you know, i do not know of leader pelosi, so that is sort of that is way of the option that is going to weigh down. there are some consequences to moving that direction. but, you know, it is not something that would be impossible. well, i hope we keep it as a live option because if the house republicans, and i know this is probably where ali is coming from, if they say no to everything and the democrats go on defense, it will put enormous pressure on those 20, 25 republicans who could make the difference. let us hope that before we get to what is the house version of the nuclear option, that the house will be able to work through its own divisions and get the yes. all right, we have time for just one more question. our last question comes from aaron morin. please explain what is going to happen for agricultural workers and farmers that need help on their fields and crops. okay. this is complicated. that is complicated. but it is a good news story, right? it is. it is. i think it is called a blue card. it is called a blue card. yeah, it is called a blue card. i think the way it is... i understand the concept. some of the particulars are very, very technical in nature. the idea is that farm workers who are here, and some estimates as much as 90, 85 to 90% of the current workforce are here without papers. that they would get a blue card, short of a green card. if they work a certain number of days in agriculture each year, they will be eligible for a green card faster than the others who are on the 10-year track. the idea, as i understand it, is that there is a tremendous amount of fear on the part of growers that if they give status to their most experienced farm hands and they all leave willie milley, it will create a huge labor shortage that could leave crops rotting on the vines. and so the idea is to incentivize those who want to leave agriculture can, but those who want to get on an accelerated path through a blue card to a green card will work a certain number of days. in other words, it is a transition as the new temporary worker program kicks in. a temporary worker program which has a balance of worker protections and easier access for employers. the farm worker advocates and the agricultural producers negotiated this approach. so i think it is a good news story where it will stabilize the current labor force, legalize the current labor force, and allow for a legal supply of workers in the future, but with worker protections so that the hardest and some of the poorest workers in america are not participating in the process. so that is why the farm worker is a very important worker. so i think that is a great thing to do. i think that is a great thing to do. i think that is a great thing to do. i think that is a great thing to do. i think from tonight's town hall that we are doing via youtube, please subscribe to my channel. at the bottom of your screen there is a subscribe button. if you click on it, you will have access to or information will send you information on our future, our webcasts, i guess this is called a webcast via youtube. so be sure to subscribe. so mark, we are just about to close up here. by the way, terrific questions from i suspect many of them from your district. so you have a very engaged electorate there. how are you feeling about reform? i mean, we do have a house republican leadership that is been iffy on this. as a speaker, bader said we have to do something. they are clearly divided. what do you think the chances are? are you optimistic? well, as optimistic as say winston churchill about our country, he used to say one thing about americans. they always do the right thing after trying everything else. i kind of keep that attitude. i also like cuban humphrey. i mean, he would come free, he used to call him a happy warrior. he would go through his disappointments, his share of losses. but he would always keep an optimistic and happy spirit. and i think we need to, i try to, in this congress, you know, how rank-risk it is. and also, you know, i just read, finished reading the team of rivals. my door is closed. about lincoln. lincoln was an amazing guy. he hired into his cabinet the people who were his rivals for the presidency. so, you know, after reading that book, you know, the country was actually driven into some of war. the divisions of that, so we are nowhere near that. so i come to work every day here on capitol hill, knowing that we are divided as a people and our opinions. but, you know, in the end, like, i believe like churchill said, americans, in the end, will do the right thing after the trial with the notes. well, i just want to thank you for your leadership on this issue. i want to thank all the people who have participated in this town hall. i will add my two cents. you know, you read the newspaper articles and up one day, down another. and what that obscures is that the fundamentals driving this debate are pretty strong. public support. i mean, you know, in california, the field pole, which is considered the gold standard. i think supporting california for a path to citizenship is like 90 percent now. a vast majority of republicans as well as democrats support it. i mean, and that is now becoming true nationwide. the public's behind it. you have a broad coalition across the spectrum. evangelicals, business conservatives, catholic church, labor unions, and a little bit of a nation group. it is a remarkable thing. it is a huge chance for this congress to dig itself out of its hole. that is right. i mean, we are in, we are in, our opinions about this congress are so low. if we can tackle immigration reform, it will do so much to restore the stature of this institution. well, again, thank you, congressman tukano. thanks to all of you for engaging and let us know what you think of congressman mark tukano's first youtube town hall. thank you. thank you.