welcome back to taking a hell on msnbc on patrick murphy. this past week the labour department released its annual veterans employment report, good news, for our rac and afghanistan veterans, unemployment fell 1.8% last year. now it is down to 7.2% and it is still far too high and we will love the national number. joining me now is one man who is working on that problem. democratic congressman mark tukano, member of the veterans affairs committee on education and workforce. congressman, thanks for joining us here today. hey patrick, thanks for having me. so congressman, so we got some good news first and what do you think drove that nearly 2% decline last year? well i think it is still overall improvement in the economy and california things are looking up and as i talk to constituents even in the inland empire where i represent riverside county which usually lags in the economy, things are looking up so i would have to attribute some of that to the fact that we have seen an overall improvement in the economy. yeah, so i am a big believer that veterans when it come home there is their civic assets, their leaders, their community but also the same ethic of leaving no one behind. the unemployment rate there was a lot higher for post-911 veterans than it is for overall veterans. is that just a matter of them being younger and trying to enter the workforce during the recession or are there other factors you think that are at play? well you know when you think about an 18 year old, sometimes even seventh year old young person entering the service, they have not gone through the normal paces that a young person goes through whether it is going to school, having that initial job after high school or if in midway through university, they leave the military often without that private sector experience and that adjustment is somewhat considerable. i am pleased that there are programs out there such as in california we have something called work for warriors which directly place veterans and service members, departing service members into jobs and i am pleased that a program like that can do it for $500 per person rather than $10,000 that the other programs do. in congressman paul cook and i are trying to make this california model something that would go national. i know you just introduced that act. how do you convince employers that military experience is actual heat though, we are all of a job training? well, many employers out there already know that veterans bring with them considerable leadership skills. they have often had training in the military that is transferable whether it is driving a truck, a large vehicle that can transfer readily to many transportation companies like ups, whether you have been trained as a medic that can transfer into whether you are going to move into a private ambulance care or become a paramedic. these are all transferable skills. we have to do a better job of making sure that there is a seamless transition for our service members into civilian jobs and certifications. i know that that certification program would really help. let me switch gears congressman. demo's sacred duty of a member of congress is whether or not to declare war. now we know that the tisis, the ters organization, president obama's asked the congress to vote on a new aumf, authorization for use for military force. when is the congress going to get after it and bring it up for a vote? well i cannot tell you when. i am still a junior member. i have been among, i think those members of congress very early on to call for an aumf debate. the fact that we have not done that i think is an abdication of congress's duty to be involved in such authorizations. i personally believe that the aumf language that the president has submitted to congress should be debated very, very quickly. it is, as you say, one of our most important duties. and i am among those who believe that the language is, although the president himself would view his language as somewhat restrictive, and indeed many of the republican members think that the president's aumf does not go far enough. yeah, i know, congress, you have been fighting to make sure we get a vote on it. but from my viewpoint, congress needs skin and a game here. the political class for our country needs to weigh in whether or not we are sending american men and women back into our reckoning for that war. well, especially when you think that it could mean a protracted involvement, an involvement of billions, if not trillions of dollars, and american lives on the line, the american people need to have the choices laid out before them. in a democracy, we simply must have a public sentiment behind whatever major challenge that we face militarily. and without it, it simply will be, history shows it is a disaster for our country without having the american people vested in a decision of this magnitude. no doubt. congressman, probably my last question, time wise, this week the new president of afghanistan is making his first official visit to the white house. what do you think needs to happen to repair the u.s.-afghanistan relationship? well, i believe that a good start is that we have a partner in the new afghanistan, an afghani president that does not view, i think, the president with a huge amount of distrust. we need to build a stronger, hopefully the president is able to build upon that beginning. and i just hope i wish them well in this meeting. so real quick, we are expecting to see a timeline for withdrawal that might be significantly extended in afghanistan. do you realistically expect the american president to look different in the future? i said again, do i expect one? do you think that, as far as our posture, do you think that the fact that several thousands close to about 8,000 right now in afghanistan, do you think that will change in the future? will we extend it? will we keep 8,000? will we still continue to decrease it? well, i think, given what we saw happen in iraq, i think the president is probably being very cautious about how much more quickly we draw down forces in iraq. so i would expect to see a cautious posture in terms of how much quickly we draw down. although eventually i do think that we do need to draw down our presence in afghanistan. yeah, it will be interesting to see what comes out of the tuesday meeting at the white house. karin sir, thank you so much for taking the hell. i look forward to seeing you again soon. thank you.