skip to content senator ernst facebook senator ernst twitter senator ernst instagram senator ernst youtube home logo link news press releases published: november 6, 2025 ernst supports iowan nominated for usda leadership role washington – as a member of the senate committee on agriculture, nutrition, and forestry, u.s. senator joni ernst (r-iowa) introduced glen smith of atlantic, iowa at his nomination hearing to serve as under secretary for rural development at the united states department of agriculture (usda). ernst has supported his nomination since it was announced in august of 2025 . watch ernst’s introduction here . during the hearing, ernst also discussed prioritizing improvements to the biopreferred program, expanding biobased markets, and the importance of her biomanufacturing and jobs act . she also secured smith’s commitment to review usda’s broadband programs, reduce duplication, and ensure taxpayer dollars connect truly underserved americans. watch ernst’s questions here . after a committee vote, smith’s nomination will be considered for confirmation by the entire senate. download pictures from today’s hearing here . ernst’s full introductory remarks: “it’s a privilege to introduce a fellow iowan, mr. glen smith, to this committee. “and, i also want to warmly welcome his wife fauzan, and their family, and special shoutout to emma, who is entering into – you’re in the 7 th grade, correct emma? “well, thank you for being here today. it is always a family affair, and glen, you have such a wonderful family, so welcome everyone to washington, d.c. … “but, i have had the very personal pleasure of knowing glen and his family for many, many, many years. his hometown of atlantic is just down the road from my home in red oak. “and, today feels full circle for me, because in this very same committee room eight years ago, i had the pleasure of introducing glen during his nomination to the farm credit administration. “since then, he has spent almost a decade helping strengthen the backbone of american agriculture — ensuring farmers and rural businesses have the credit and financial tools they need to succeed. “now, president trump has chosen him to serve as the under secretary of agriculture for rural development — a role that impacts communities in every state. “as a fellow iowa state graduate with a degree in agricultural business, glen built a career in agricultural real estate and appraisal, serving farmers and landowners all across southwest iowa. “glen, fauzan, and their family also operate smith generation farms, working approximately 2,000 acres of row crops. “with his experience, glen is exceptionally well-positioned to lead usda’s rural development mission. “i could not be more excited about his nomination and look forward to seeing the revitalization of our rural communities under his leadership.” ### previous next website-search