this morning, this morning it gives me a real pleasure to welcome to our convention. for the first time, he is been a newly elected congressman. he is the first session, first congress, but we are welcoming today to our convention, congressman todd ted bud. congressman bud is currently serving as i said his first term in the u.s. house. he represents the 13th congressional district, which includes parts of the triad and western piedmont. his district includes high point, state's full, morseville and salisbury. congressman bud sits on the house financial services committee. i know we have talked with him several times. his office has opened us. he is interested in reducing regulations that prevents job creation in this state and in this nation. he is a businessman. congressman bud and his wife amy kate and their three children live in davy county. congressman bud, we thank you for your service and we welcome you to our farm your own convention. ladies and gentlemen, let us give a warm farm your own welcome to congressman ted bud. well, thank you larry and good morning everybody. thank you for having me here. it is a real honor. let me all know i come from a, i am from davy county, but i also live on our family farm. and it started out as a holly farm hatchinig operation. now it is a calcath operation. holly farms went on to tyson and then they started moving that to, that city was moving out to us. so holly farms, their tyson, they moved on to another place. now it is calcath and about 20 years ago the farmer said to us one spring, we were making hay, late spring and he said, you know, you ought not to make hay, you ought to take that hay and make grass seed out of it. and we did and that grew up into a business. you might have seen the product called rebel brand grass seeds. so we have got, got some ag and at least in my background. a lot of my education came from growing up on that family farm. and i still live there. now i am not directly involved in the ag side anymore. but i do hear the cows every morning and if i hear them too loud that means they are in my shrubbery. and that means i am going to be late for the airport. but i still do like to get on the tractor and the weekends and help out when i can. and i know there is always some frustration on the family farm, especially when you are taking that three-point hitch and trying to get that pto connected if you all know what i mean. and that is same kind of frustration. i feel that sometimes when i am in washington and i hear about some of these confounded regulations, some of what we are trying to roll back right now. and i see how thick that federal register is and how many of those regulations are blocking economic growth and economic progress. the good news is that in this congress and with this president, we have been able to pursue a very successful agenda of rolling back a lot of those regulations. two specific areas that i want to talk about the first is wotus, or waters of the u.s. and what that does is it vastly expands what congress ever meant for the epa to do. now you know that wet spot in your field that you do not drive your pickup truck across. now the epa says they want to regulate that spot and i say that is ridiculous. and we want to have nothing to do with it. and hopefully with scott pruitt, the commissioner of the epa, we are going to be able to roll that back and we think we can get that done. the other one is the endangered species act. and if you look at what that practically does, that can make it the endangered farmers act. and we do not want that. so this is a need of some very, very serious modernization. and we know that it works against you. and for doing what it is supposed to do, it only works about 3% of the time. so that we have got some reform in the house right now. and we think that we can move that along and be very successful in rolling that back and making it do actually what it is supposed to do and not being your way. the big news is, and this is very important here to the farm bureau, is we have eliminated the estate tax in this tax reform bill. very excited about that. thank you. we were able to successfully do this in the house version right before thanksgiving. we were very thankful when we came home. and i was very pleased. i made it to a little after midnight watch in the senate in what they were able to do at 150 on saturday morning, late friday night, early saturday morning, when they passed their version of the tax reform. so we have not done this in 31 years since 1986. so we are very, very excited to help us become a more global economy. and we know this is going to help family farms as well. and in regards to the estate tax, people think that this is just for the wealthy. but we know that it is not. that is not the way a family farm operates. all your net worth and your value and your assets are tied up in equipment and property and improvements in land and maybe livestock affects your type of farm. but it is not a pilot cash. and why would you ever want to sell part of your farm or part of your business to be able to be able to continue in business? and i think that is absolutely ridiculous. so this is very exciting. and now this week until christmas, hopefully we can deliver you a nice gift for all of us of tax reform as we tend to get this house and senate build together. so very excited about this. we have got a lot of work to do. and the cows were not in the strawberry this morning. so i do get to make it to the airport and go and do the work of the people's house. and that is what i will be doing this afternoon in this evening. i want to thank you all for having me here. i want to thank david rouser, again, been a great friend of mine. he is here today. i think senator tillis is going to come along as well. but you all have been great friends to me. and i am honored to be able to represent you. please come see me if you are ever in washington. come by and see me. if you are in here in guilford county, come by the office. or i will meet you in davie county as well. you all have a great rest of your time here. and look forward to seeing you next time. thank you again, larry. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you very much. thank you.