how is everybody doing this morning? you guys all right? do we have any north carolinaians out there? all right. say it again. look louder. there you go. all right. all right. so how many of you all have ever been in a group or a school and you walked in and you were the new kid or you are the new guy? right? i think about every hand. we need some more hands to go up. well, i want to let you all know that i am the new guy, the new kid in the us senate. there is only a handful of us. so i know how it feels. thank you. but i want to let you know that last year, all around north carolina, we have got, as you all from north carolina, we have 100 counties. i went to each and every one of those 100 counties, some of them multiple times. and here's what i heard. i mean, i met people of all types. i met every age, every race, every demographic, every background, old young, every belief. and here's one thing that everyone had in common. they believed that all of our kids should get a good education. do you all believe that? absolutely. so when i was traveling around our great state, and i know senator rick scott, a lot of senator scott's today, right? but as you met senator rick scott, he said, move to florida. well, i want you to come to north carolina. i am not going to be a north carolina. but when i was around, each and every one of those, i promised them that if they voted for me, that i would do everything that i could to help them and their parents have a say in their own education. do you all believe that? right. so as a dad of three kids, and we chose early on that for us, of course i had gone to public high school, i went to a little private school before that, i would gone to a christian school for graduate studies. but we decided, amy kate and i, that we would homeschool our kids. so that is educational choice right there. but i know firsthand that no two kids are alike. i mean, we have got three kids, and they are not all alike. and that means that the approach to education should be one that fits each and every student. a student should not have to fit a one-size-fits-all approach. so putting parents in charge when it comes to their kids' education, i think that that is one of the civil rights issue of our day to day. so when we are celebrating national school choice week, it shines a much needed spotlight on the mission to empower parents and spread educational freedom across our country. so at the end of the day, when we serve in these elected roles, like congressman messer did, and it is the ones you here today have, our role is to make people's lives better, and to make sure that you all inherit a country full of opportunity and full of freedom. so that is what i told the people back in north carolina that i would do, and that is what i am going to do for each and every one of you all as long as i have this job. so thank you all for having me here today, and may god bless each and every one of you. thank you.