wow! well, dan, i was listening to you, and we do like to go to bed early in davy county. look, i just want to thank my friend dan bishop. you know, dan, you were my first endorsement, and i am still honored to have your support. lieutenant governor mark robinson, you are a dear friend, and your support is humbling. i cannot wait to watch you achieve even more in this great state of north carolina. well, the psalmist tells us, give thanks to the lord, for he is good, his steadfast love endures forever. and north carolina, we certainly do. give him thanks tonight. so i want to begin by thanking my wonderful wife, amy kate, for her love, for her love, for encouragement, and for her road miles, for her hard work, and for giving us and blessing us three fantastic kids. joshua, catherine, and macy. well, you all have kept us primary fun, and you have kept me grounded, because when i get home, i get reminded that there are still dishes to do and trash. take out. i am eternally thankful that god has blessed me with such an amazing family, and that includes you, mom and dad. that includes my brothers and their wives, and my nephews, and nieces, and cousins, and extended family, many are here tonight. and i want to thank my friends and my neighbors, especially those who have known me for a long time. and to enjoy the look around this room, and to see so many familiar faces here tonight, we have always stood by each other, and i want you to know our treasure, our friendships. i want to thank my campaign team, and all the work of our volunteers, and bud crew chiefs, in all 100 counties. because without your hard work, we would not be here tonight. and friends, i want to thank president donald j. trump, and his entire family, including laura trump, who is a native north carolinian, with a powerful voice of her own. she and the president helped me back in 2018, when nancy pelosi targeted me in a tough republican district. and then in 2020, we worked together to elect other republicans up, and down the ballot, and across our state. so when president trump and president trump and president donald j, and you said, ted, i am endorsing you, because you never wavered on america first policies. that american first agenda, it led to historic job growth, wage growth, and prosperity for all americans. and i pledged to my fellow north carolinians, i will never waver when it comes to fighting for the forgotten men and women in this state and in this country. applause now, you have often heard me say that primaries are awkward moments. and yes, friends, they really are. because you have to run against people that you might have supported in another setting in another day and another race. but i want to take a moment. i want to recognize those men and women right now. governor pat mccory, i thank you for your service to our state as governor. and for your time as mayor of charlotte, you made charlotte better, and you made north carolina better. so thank you. congressman mark walker, please. you give him a hand. applause congressman mark walker, you and kelly, were the first ones that amy kate and i reached out to. in 2016 before i was ever sworn into office, the four of us had dinner not too far from here. and so i want to thank you for your early help. your loyal supporters will be critical to helping us take back the us senate. and i want to humbly ask for their prayers, for their support, and for their vote this fall. to marjorie eastman, i thank you and your husband for your service to our country. your commitment to citizen service, it is a model for us all. you know there were 14 republican ballots that put their name forward in this primary. and i am absolutely honored to be the republican nominee. applause but now we need to pull together. and we need to look to the real race in november. so i was glad to see that many of the events that we all participated in, each one of us took a unity pledge and we raised our hand to support the eventual winner of this primary. and that sends a clear message to the democrats that this party is united and is poised to take back the senate and to save this country. applause early on in this campaign, i told my team that i wanted to visit each and every one of our states 100 counties. not just the ones with the highest populations or with the big tv markets. friends, i have just got to view a politics that a candidate needs to look voters in the eye and ask them for their vote. so that is what we did. now we got a little criticism. but our 100 county tour, it made me a better candidate and helped me fall deeper in love with the old north state. in every county i visited, i heard stories of high grocery costs, skyrocketing fuel prices, shortages of basic necessities like infant formula. i heard stories of families that have been ripped apart by deadly drugs like fentanyl. we know that fentanyl and other drugs came across a chaotic and open southern border. i heard about crime waves that turned safe neighborhoods into deadly battlefields. my friends, i am sure all that chaos is completely unacceptable to you. and i want you to know that it is completely unacceptable to me. applause my opponent, sherry beasley, she does not seem to have any problem with joe biden's agenda. so let us be clear, sherry beasley is the most radical, liberal candidate to ever run for us senate here in north carolina. so if we send her to washington, she would enable every element of joe biden's agenda. and if we think it is bad now, it is only going to get worse with sherry beasley in the us senate. now, $5,200 may not sound like a lot of money to chuck schumer. it may not sound like a lot of money to joe biden or to sherry beasley. but that is a lot of money to most folks here in north carolina. and $5,200 is how much extra the working families in our state have to pay this year to the biden beasley inflation. and that is what voters are going to be thinking about when they go to vote in november. voters here in north carolina, they are going to be thinking about the chaos at our southern border. and some folks will say, well, you are not a border state. so why do you even care? friends, sheriffs, law enforcement, more across this great state have told me that every single county here in north carolina is a border county because of the biden beasley lawless open border agenda. yeah. thank you. deadly drugs are flooding in. human trafficking is increasing. and the cartels are trying to gain even more control of our borders. it is gotten so bad that even my democrat opponent is talking about it. but she is not holding joe biden accountable for his failures. and she will not hold him accountable in the us senate either. and that is why working families are going to send a conservative fighter to hold joe biden accountable in november. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. well, we got an amazing crowd here tonight. i bet some of you all drove from a pretty long ways. this is a big state, is not it? anybody filter gas tanks today or this week? oh, i hear you. so let us talk about gas prices. one of the first things joe biden did as president was to shut down domestic energy. and now we pay some of the highest fuel prices in history. because of the biden-beezley agenda, farmers are facing skyrocketing input prices. and that raises prices for everyone trying to put food on the dining room table. ladies and gentlemen, under joe biden, america is woke and broke. oh, god. woo. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah, that is exactly what i am going to do. i am ted bud, i am a small businessman, i am a conservative fighter, i am america first. and i am honored to be your republican nominee for the united states senate. god bless you.