how many folks here today are mad about the path that joe biden and the woke left are dragging our country down? come on. well, folks, i am too, and that is exactly why i am running for u.s. senate. well, you know who else is upset about what joe biden's doing to our country? i think you are going to see him tonight. president donald j. trump. do not we all miss some folks? i know i do. well, look, the dc reporters might not like it. ex-governor, two-time loser pat mccrory might not like it. but i am proud to have president trump's endorsement in this race. how do you folks feel about it? yeah. president trump knows that we need conservative fighters in the senate who will not waver from america first principles. now, others seeking this republican nomination they might cave, but you can count on me to stand strong for all of you. we have got to fix the problems folks, our border. not been there. i have been our border multiple times. i have met with the border patrol agents. they want leaders who have their back and supports law enforcement. you guys support law enforcement? there is a lot of law enforcement supporting this event. let us give them a hand. well, the national border patrol council, they know that i have got law enforcement back at the border and it all... ...of our counties around this great country and that is why they endorse me as well. look, i have fought to give them the funding and the resources they need since day one. and as your u.s. center, i will vote to finish that wall. so folks, are you with me? we will never let them off. we will never let them off. we will never let them off. hey folks, another topic. let us talk about inflation. look around, anybody here got an extra 50-200 bucks in around? no. because that is what joe biden's record-setting inflation is going to cost our working families across north carolina this year. biden inflation is making it hard for working people to keep up. now we were worried that joe biden was going to be a third term for obama. but even worse, it is another term for jimmy carter. from afghanistan to inflation, joe biden is the worst president ever. but... you agree? but... what we need to do is to make sure that biden is in common here as a worst-life president ever. we need to make sure that her vote in the u.s. senate does not matter anymore. we need to give republicans a majority in the u.s. senate who will tell joe biden no more giveaways. now folks, i do not know why election integrity is even a partisan issue. we are great republicans here. we are the ones with a partisan issue. we just want to make it and say this would be easy to vote hard to cheat. hard to cheat, absolutely. now voter id is a great first step. it is the will of the people here in north carolina. but democrats, they do not want accountability because they know they cannot win elections on the woke left agenda. now, the only way that they have a voice at all here in north carolina is because democrat judges do not care about our north carolina constitution. democrats win more elections in north carolina court rooms than they do at north carolina ballot boxes. so it is high time that we take back the senate and we stop all of this madness. look folks, like most of you here, and again, we thank you for being here. but like most of you all, my whole life never really revolved around politics. i am best described as a christian, a family man, father, husband, small businessman. and i am the only candidate in this race who knows how to sign the front of a paycheck and not just the back of a paycheck. and you know there is something else the woke left does not like about me. that small business. i own a gun store in shooting range. so i get to defend the second amendment right here in north carolina and up in washington, d.c. together, all of us in donald j. trump, we can take back the u.s. senate. we can start pushing back now against the woke and broke biden agenda. so i am the conservative fighter who will fight for all of you. and oh yeah, i am all in, all in america first because protecting and promoting american jobs is my top priority. so friends, i humbly ask for your vote on may 17th. thank you and may god bless each and every one of you. thank you. you