[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 11 (Wednesday, January 20, 2016)]
[Senate]
[Pages S102-S103]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
35TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE IRANIAN HOSTAGE RELEASE
Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I rise on January 20, 2016, on the floor
of the Senate to acknowledge this day as the 35th anniversary of the
return of 53 Americans by the Iranian Government to the shores of the
United States of America after captivity for 444 days in Iran. As the
Members of the Senate will remember, they were employees of the U.S.
Embassy in Iran who were brutally attacked, sent through mock
executions, subjected to beatings, subjected to brainwashing, subjected
to torture, and for 444 days were out of communication with their loved
ones and our country. Fortunately, we successfully negotiated their
release, and on January 20, 1981, they were released back to the United
States.
But that release included the execution of the Algerian Accords
between the United States and the Iranians, which prohibited any
hostage from suing the nation of Iran for compensation for their
captivity. Since that release, many Americans in the House of
Representatives and the Senate, including myself, have worked hard to
try to right that wrong. I am very pleased to acknowledge that under
the passage of the omnibus in December, we were able to secure funding
to be able to compensate those hostages as they should have been
compensated 35 years ago. We were able to take money from the Paribas
bank forfeiture of Iranian funds to the U.S. Government to see to it
that they were compensated in some measure for the sacrifice they made
for our country.
A lot of people have written: Why would you compensate people for
their captivity? Why would you go to the effort for 35 years to see to
it these people got some amount of money to compensate them for their
captivity? Why would we not do it? There are Americans all over the
world serving in very dangerous places, serving as ambassadors and
diplomats through the State Department. They should know we have their
backs, not just on the days they are serving but 35 years later if they
were tortured, beaten or if they were held captive.
We all rejoiced to see the Americans that were released by the
Iranians. We know there were Americans taken hostage in Iraq and
Baghdad 2 days later. Taking Americans hostage and using them as tools
of war is something that has been happening for years and years, and
the Iranian Government is at the head of it. These Americans deserve
fair treatment, compensation, and recompense for all they suffered, and
I am proud to say that because of a bipartisan effort in the House and
Senate, we were able to do so.
I want to thank Senator Corker, the chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee; Senator Cardin, the former chairman; Senator Menendez from
New Jersey; Senator Reid from Nevada, who was instrumental in helping;
and Senator Blumenthal, my ranking member on the Veterans' Affairs
Committee of the Senate, for help on this bill and for all the help
they brought. I want to thank the entire body of the Senate, who in
December voted unanimously to see to it that the Paribas money was made
available to the survivors of the people who were taken hostage in
1979.
You might remember the show ``Nightline'' that we see on television
started with the original report in 1979 by Ted Koppel about the
hostage taking. It became a television show when
[[Page S103]]
they were held that long. I am glad now that the ending of that show is
a successful ending, because we brought them home and we saw to it they
were compensated. Some of them have passed away. Some of them had taken
their own life. Some of them had difficulties. Some were never able to
rid themselves of the scars of the torture and brainwashing. But this
Senate and this Congress did what it was supposed to do, stood up for
Americans and sent a signal to everybody who works in the State
Department, who is a diplomat for our country, and who works overseas
that if you are taken, we will stand behind you and we will never ever
forget--whether it is 444 days or 35 years--once an American serving
our country, always an American serving our country. We will always be
there for you, and we will go to every effort and every length, even if
it does take 35 years.
On the anniversary of their release in 1981 when they came back to
the United States, we pay tribute to those great Americans who served
our country and were held hostage in Iran. We give thanks that we have
the kind of men and women who are willing, day in and day out, to
sacrifice on behalf of our great country. May God bless each and every
one of them, and may God bless the United States of America.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so
ordered.
____________________