[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 10 (Tuesday, January 19, 2016)]
[Senate]
[Pages S82-S83]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
AMERICAN SAFE ACT
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, tomorrow the Senate will vote on a
motion to proceed to H.R. 4038, also known as the American Security
Against Foreign Enemies Act. This bill would prohibit the admission
into the United States of refugees from Iraq or Syria or any other
refugee who has been present in those countries in the last 5 years
unless that person receives a thorough background investigation.
The bill would require the Director of the FBI to certify to the
Secretary of Homeland Security and also to the Director of National
Intelligence that each of those persons has received a background
investigation that is sufficient to determine whether he or she is a
threat to the security of the United States. Then, as a second
provision, the Secretary of Homeland Security, with the unanimous
concurrence of the Director of the FBI and the Director of National
Intelligence, would have to certify to Congress that each refugee is
not a security threat; and finally, it requires the Homeland Security
inspector general to conduct a risk-based review of all certifications
for the admission of Iraqi and Syrian refugees made by the Department
of Homeland Security, the FBI, and the Director of National
Intelligence each year and provide an annual report to the Congress.
This bill passed the House overwhelmingly and in a bipartisan manner
in November. I intend to vote on the motion to proceed tomorrow. This
is a conversation we need to have in the Senate. This is not an issue
we can take lightly, despite the plea from President Obama in his State
of the Union Address. We cannot allow America's welcome mat to become a
doormat for radicalized Islamic extremists who are hardwired to kill
innocent people and destroy our way of life.
Unless and until the United States can figure out a foolproof
screening process to prevent terrorists from masquerading as refugees
to infiltrate our neighborhoods and our communities, President Obama
needs to listen
[[Page S83]]
to the concerns voiced by more than half of the Nation's Governors,
lawmakers on both sides of the aisle on both sides of Capitol Hill, and
the American people from across the entire country.
After the September 11 attacks, we paused our refugee admission
program to reassess its security vetting procedures, so there is
precedent for suspending the refugee program, and this bill does not
suspend the refugee program--only in regard to the single instance that
I know; that is, we have been threatened that people were going to be
snuck into the country under the umbrella of refugee, and of course
that is from Iraq and Syria.
We need to move cautiously in accepting refugees from Iraq and Syria
given the attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, CA, and even elsewhere
around the world. We need to fully understand the risks and the schemes
that these terrorists are using before we open our doors to 10,000 more
Syrians. Other countries face the same challenge.
Just last week, the French Interior Minister warned his colleagues
about the intent of the Islamic State to use authentic-looking Syrian
and Iraqi passports to smuggle its operatives into Europe. There is no
doubt that the group has obtained thousands of blank passports and
intends to facilitate travel by counterfeiting those documents, but
more importantly, we must consider a pause in accepting these refugees
until we can be sure our background checks and investigations are the
best they can be. However, today there is little doubt, even from our
leading intelligence officials that we may not be able to stop a Paris-
like attack because we cannot tell who among the thousands of Syrian
refugees that the administration wishes to resettle here are
terrorists.
The Director of the FBI, James Comey, said: ``My concern is that
there are certain gaps . . . in the data available to us'' in screening
Syrian refugees. This data, such as fingerprints, background or
biographic information, is crucial for adequate screening of potential
refugees entering the United States. Director Comey also said: ``There
is risk associated with bringing anybody in from the outside, but
especially from a conflict zone like that.''
The United States has been successful in fighting off many large-
scale terrorist attacks on our soil, but of course it only takes one
mistake. Just last month, the FBI arrested two individuals who reside
in the United States and entered the country as refugees, one of whom
was arrested for attempting to knowingly and willfully provide material
support and resources to the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant.
A Federal agent testified last week that one of the men charged
planned to set off bombs at two Houston malls. I asked for the
immigration and criminal histories of these individuals to investigate
further and satisfy myself, and I am still waiting for their response.
The concerns are real. The threats are real. We cannot jeopardize our
national security simply by rolling out our welcome mat to these
terrorists.
President Obama's lack of strategy in Syria has exacerbated this
human catastrophe. Similarly, this administration has no inclination or
strategy to create conditions where refugees can one day return home
safely to their own homes. By housing these refugees, the United States
is only aiding in a short-term treatment of this whole massive refugee
problem and the problems of warfare in the Middle East while at the
same time risking the safety of the American people. We must instead
focus on defeating ISIS and alleviating the current humanitarian
misery, all while creating a future for Syrian refugees in their
homeland.
The No. 1 responsibility of the U.S. Federal Government is to protect
the homeland and to secure the country against all threats. Moving this
bill on our vote tomorrow is one step we can take to advance this
principle and to show our concern that the No. 1 responsibility of the
Federal Government is the defense of the American people.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Sasse). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
____________________