[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 10 (Tuesday, January 19, 2016)]
[Senate]
[Pages S83-S84]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
HONORING OUR ARMED FORCES
MAJOR ADRIANNA VORDERBRUGGEN
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I rise today to honor U.S. Air Force
Maj. Adrianna Vorderbruggen, who was tragically killed in the line of
duty 4 days before Christmas when a Taliban suicide bomber rammed his
motorcycle carrying explosives into a joint NATO-Afghan patrol near
Bagram Air Force Base in Afghanistan. She was the highest ranking
military officer there who was killed. There were several others who
tragically lost their lives as well.
Today I had the honor of attending the major's funeral service at the
Fort Myer Memorial Chapel. Senator Franken was also there. She was laid
to rest with full military honors at the Arlington National Cemetery.
She is survived by her wife Heather, her son Jacob, her father Joseph,
and her brothers, Dan, John, and Chris. I will
[[Page S84]]
note that three of the four members of the family--since I was just
talking about adoption--were, in fact, adopted.
Adrianna was a native of my hometown of Plymouth, MN, where she
attended my alma mater, Wayzata High School. She excelled in both
academics and athletics and was a 3-year starter on the Wayzata High
School women's soccer team. This is a very large suburban high school.
The year she was a starter and captain, she led the team to the State
championship. She was also the captain of the Wayzata High School
hockey team.
She went on to the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado and graduated
in 2002. In her senior year, she led the women's rugby team to the
national championship title. She was their cocaptain, so you can
imagine. She was a starter on the soccer team and helped lead that team
in high school to a State championship. She was the captain of the
hockey team, which is a big deal in Minnesota, of a big high school,
and she was also the cocaptain of the rugby team and helped lead that
team to a national championship title in the Air Force. We can imagine
the leadership Adrianna had shown through her life. She always loved
sports--something that was talked about a lot today by her family.
After graduating, she attended the Air Force Special Investigations
Academy and was deployed to Iraq until 2005. In 2009 she was selected
as an Air Force Institute of Technology student in forensic sciences
and earned a master's degree in forensic sciences at George Washington
University. In 2010 she became a special agent for the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations, which investigates felony-level crimes
committed by or against Air Force personnel in the United States and
overseas.
Major Vorderbruggen was also an outspoken opponent to the military's
former don't ask, don't tell policy. She and Heather, an Air Force
veteran, were among the first servicemembers to marry after the policy
was rescinded in 2010. Adrianna chose to serve her country in spite of
the military's policy and fought for reform rather than hiding her
identity. As her older brother Chris said, ``She inspired us all, I
think, by just being herself, and being proud to be who she was.''
Adrianna was known by her family and friends for her positive
attitude and her infectious smile. At the service this morning, her dad
remembered Adrianna's ability to remain upbeat even under challenging
circumstances. And she loved their little boy, Jacob, who was there
today with a loving family around him.
Major Vorderbruggen will be remembered for the work she did in
service to her country and the work she did to make sure all brave men
and women in uniform receive the honor and the dignity they so
rightfully deserve.
I am proud to call Maj. Adrianna Vorderbruggen a daughter of
Minnesota. She gave her life for a country she loves.
Thank you. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
____________________