[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 12 (Thursday, January 21, 2016)]
[Senate]
[Page S157]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
BICENTENNIAL OF WELD, MAINE
Mr. KING. Mr. President, today I wish to commemorate the 200th
anniversary of Weld, ME, a small town set along Webb Lake in Franklin
County. The town, with 419 inhabitants, has a long and proud history
dating back to the 19th century, and I am pleased to join the people of
Weld in celebrating their bicentennial and recognizing the town's
cherished place in the State of Maine. The yearlong bicentennial
celebration will kick off with an event on Saturday, February 6, at the
newly renovated townhall.
First settled in 1800, Weld was incorporated in 1816 and named for
its proprietor Benjamin Weld, of the well-known Boston family.
Incidentally, the year of Weld's incorporation also marked the
notorious Year Without A Summer in New England, with 6 inches of snow
blanketing the land in June. Widespread crop failures and other
hardships pushed many westward, but the town of Weld prevailed,
establishing itself as the small but strong community it remains today.
Nestled in a valley created by Mount Blue and the Tumbledown
Mountains, Weld has long been noted for its striking natural beauty.
The area is rich with wildlife and home to many fish species, loons,
moose, and even the occasional bald eagle. At the core of Weld's
identity is Webb Lake, where many go to enjoy Maine's beloved outdoor
traditions.
The historic Kawanhee Inn, a rustic log inn that dates back to the
1920's, has gained wide recognition for staying true to its origins and
character. Along with Mount Blue State Park, Camp Kawanhee for Boys,
and family cottages with deep historical roots, the inn attracts many
visitors to Weld. In the summer months, the town's population swells to
the thousands as people from Maine and all around the country flock to
Weld to enjoy fishing, boating, hiking, and a respite from fast-paced
lifestyles.
When the temperatures drop and campers and summer residents pack up
to leave, there remains a close-knit and engaged year-round population.
The Congregational Church, Masonic Lodge, and the Weld Historical
Society are bolstered by active community involvement. Additionally,
the Webb Lake Association is a nonprofit organization that spearheads
conservation efforts and raises awareness about water pollutants in the
lake. The Webb Lake Association is but one example of the townspeople's
commitment to preserving the area's unsurpassed beauty.
I commend all that the people of Weld have done to make their town
such a special place to live and experience nature. Their shared love
for their hometown has made them one of Maine's most cohesive and
dedicated communities. This has been especially illustrated by the
members of the Weld Bicentennial Committee, whose efforts have made
this special celebration possible, and I am proud to recognize this
milestone.
____________________