 I rise in support of HR 1076, the preventing the financing of illegal synthetic drug exact sponsored by Representative Dayla Cruz of Texas. It bill that I am pleased to co-sponsor and co-lead. Thanks to collaboration on both sides of the aisle, this bill offers a well-written study focused on the financing and proceeds of the illicit synthetic drug trade that is victimizing communities across the country. By following the money behind the multi-billion dollar drug trade, we are able to understand the traffickers, operations, and improve our ability to disrupt their activities. The effects of the trafficking has been staggering. Desk involving synthetic opioids such as illicit fentanyl and methamphetamine increased by 22% in 2021, resulting in the deaths of more than 100,000 people of our family members and our neighbors. In 2022, there were also nearly 200,000 nonfatal opioid overdoses in the U.S. In 2021, the overdose death rates increased 44% for black people and 39% for American Indian and Native Alaskans, showing troubling trends and widening disparities among population groups. Compatting the opioid epidemic is one of the reasons I ran for Congress. Like too many Americans, my family has been impacted by the opioid crisis. My mom's addiction began with the over-prescription of opioids which led to heroin and ultimately fentanyl when it started taking over the drug supply chain in 2016. Unfortunately, my mom's story is not unique in Jefferson County, in Colorado or in this country. The opioid epidemic is now more lethal than ever as we continue to see drugs become more and more potent and easier to traffic. It is going to take an all-hands-on-deck approach to stop the flow of fentanyl and other illicit synthetic opioids in this country. And ensuring that we understand the financial networks of drug trafficking organization is a critical tool that we need to protect American lives. This bill will not solve all the issues related to the opioid crisis. We need to do more to increase access to substance use disorder treatment and recovery services. And we need to do more to help support the workforce shortages. We need to crack down on social media companies that are permitting the sale of illegal drugs to young Americans. And we need to ensure that the financial system has a tools to quickly identify bad actors and break up their drug trafficking rings. As a member of the House Financial Services Committee, I advocate for leveraging every financial tool at our disposal to pursue the traffickers of illicit fentanyl and other drugs. In this role, I also advocate for every individual family and community that has suffered or will suffer from misguided anti-drug policies, physical, social, and economic damage to have the support that they need. Thus, I urge my fellow members to vote for this needed trafficking study bill. But I also urge them to consider that we must take the time to learn lessons of the past epidemics and take further steps to eliminate harmful and counterproductive policies. I reserve the balance of my time.