[congressional record volume 162, number 11 (wednesday, january 20, 2016)] [senate] [page s111] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] american security against foreign enemies act of 2015--motion to proceed the presiding officer. under the previous order, the senate will resume consideration of the motion to proceed to h.r. 4038, which the clerk will report. the legislative clerk read as follows: motion to proceed to calendar no. 300, h.r. 4038, a bill to require that supplemental certifications and background investigations be completed prior to the admission of certain aliens as refugees, and for other purposes. the presiding officer. under the previous order, the time until 2:30 p.m. will be equally divided between the two leaders or their designees. mr. leahy. mr. president, it is unfortunate that the fear and xenophobia being peddled by some republican candidates for president is now being given time on the senate floor. instead of solving the real problems facing americans--like the student debt crisis or our need for energy independence--or responding to real threats to our national security--like our failure to track visa overstays or prevent terrorists from buying guns--today we are debating a strawman inspired by donald trump's baseless rhetoric. the bill the republican leader is asking us to consider will not make america safer. in fact, it is a dangerous distraction that plays into the hands of the isis propaganda machine. instead of demonizing refugees, who are the most thoroughly screened group of people who enter the united states, we should take up and pass the defeat isis and protect and secure the united states act of 2015. that bill offers a comprehensive strategy to counter isis propaganda and violent extremism in the united states and abroad. it offers real solutions that will keep us safe rather than scapegoating refugees who are fleeing war and torture. in contrast, the bill we are asked to consider has put forward fresh fodder for the false narrative that we are at war with islam. i will oppose this house bill. the presiding officer. the senator from north carolina. mr. burr. mr. president, i ask unanimous consent that the quorum call be equally divided between both sides. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered. mr. burr. i suggest the absence of a quorum. the presiding officer. the clerk will call the roll. the legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll. mr. mcconnell. mr. president, i ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered. cloture motion the presiding officer. pursuant to rule xxii, the chair lays before the senate the pending cloture motion, which the clerk will state. the senior assistant legislative clerk read as follows: cloture motion we, the undersigned senators, in accordance with the provisions of rule xxii of the standing rules of the senate, do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the motion to proceed to calendar no. 300, h.r. 4038, an act to require that supplemental certifications and background investigations be completed prior to the admission of certain aliens as refugees, and for other purposes. mitch mcconnell, rob portman, john thune, tom cotton, steve daines, james m. inhofe, mike crapo, thom tillis, roger f. wicker, lindsey graham, pat roberts, john cornyn, shelley moore capito, john boozman, michael b. enzi, james e. risch, john mccain. the presiding officer. by unanimous consent, the mandatory quorum call has been waived. the question is, is it the sense of the senate that debate on the motion to proceed to calendar no. 300, h.r. 4038, an act to require that supplemental certifications and background investigations be completed prior to the admission of certain aliens as refugees, and for other purposes, shall be brought to a close? the yeas and nays are mandatory under the rule. the clerk will call the roll. the senior assistant legislative clerk called the roll. mr. cornyn. the following senator is necessarily absent: the senator from south carolina (mr. graham). mr. durbin. i announce that the senator from vermont (mr. sanders) is necessarily absent. the presiding officer (mr. toomey). are there any other senators in the chamber desiring to vote? the yeas and nays resulted--yeas 55, nays 43, as follows: [rollcall vote no. 4 leg.] yeas--55 alexander ayotte barrasso blunt boozman burr capito cassidy coats cochran collins corker cornyn cotton crapo cruz daines enzi ernst fischer flake gardner grassley hatch heitkamp heller hoeven inhofe isakson johnson kirk lankford lee manchin mccain mcconnell moran murkowski paul perdue portman risch roberts rounds rubio sasse scott sessions shelby sullivan thune tillis toomey vitter wicker nays--43 baldwin bennet blumenthal booker boxer brown cantwell cardin carper casey coons donnelly durbin feinstein franken gillibrand heinrich hirono kaine king klobuchar leahy markey mccaskill menendez merkley mikulski murphy murray nelson peters reed reid schatz schumer shaheen stabenow tester udall warner warren whitehouse wyden not voting--2 graham sanders the presiding officer. on this vote, the yeas are 55, the nays are 43. three-fifths of the senators duly chosen and sworn not having voted in the affirmative, the motion is rejected. the majority leader. ____________________