[congressional record volume 162, number 27 (monday, february 22, 2016)] [senate] [page s907] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] cloture motion the presiding officer. pursuant to rule xxii, the chair lays before the senate the pending cloture motion, which the clerk will state. the legislative clerk read as follows: cloture motion we, the undersigned senators, in accordance with the provisions of rule xxii of the standing rules of the senate, do hereby move to bring to a close debate on the nomination of robert mckinnon califf, to be commissioner of food and drugs, department of health and human services. mitch mcconnell, john cornyn, lamar alexander, bill cassidy, chuck grassley, pat roberts, john barrasso, richard burr, tim scott, orrin g. hatch, michael b. enzi, johnny isakson, john boozman, cory gardner, roger f. wicker, thom tillis, roy blunt. the presiding officer. by unanimous consent, the mandatory quorum call has been waived. the question is, is it the sense of the senate that debate on the nomination of robert mckinnon califf, of south carolina, to be commissioner of food and drugs, department of health and human services, shall be brought to a close? the yeas and nays are mandatory under the rule. the clerk will call the roll. the legislative clerk called the roll. mr. cornyn. the following senators are necessarily absent: the senator from missouri (mr. blunt), the senator from texas (mr. cruz), the senator from arizona (mr. flake), the senator from nevada (mr. heller), the senator from north dakota (mr. hoeven), the senator from florida (mr. rubio), the senator from alabama (mr. shelby), the senator from pennsylvania (mr. toomey), and the senator from louisiana (mr. vitter). mr. durbin. i announce that the senator from new jersey (mr. booker), the senator from pennsylvania (mr. casey), the senator from north dakota (ms. heitkamp), the senator from missouri (mrs. mccaskill), and the senator from vermont (mr. sanders) are necessarily absent. the presiding officer (mr. lankford). are there any other senators in the chamber desiring to vote? the yeas and nays resulted--yeas 80, nays 6, as follows: [rollcall vote no. 24 ex.] yeas--80 alexander baldwin barrasso bennet boozman boxer brown burr cantwell capito cardin carper cassidy coats cochran collins coons corker cornyn cotton crapo daines donnelly durbin enzi ernst feinstein fischer franken gardner gillibrand graham grassley hatch heinrich hirono inhofe isakson johnson kaine king kirk klobuchar lankford leahy lee mccain mcconnell menendez merkley mikulski moran murkowski murphy murray paul perdue peters reed reid risch roberts rounds sasse schatz schumer scott sessions shaheen stabenow sullivan tester thune tillis udall warner warren whitehouse wicker wyden nays--6 ayotte blumenthal manchin markey nelson portman not voting--14 blunt booker casey cruz flake heitkamp heller hoeven mccaskill rubio sanders shelby toomey vitter the presiding officer. on this vote, the yeas are 80, the nays are 6. the motion is agreed to. cloture having been invoked, the clerk will report the nomination. the senior assistant legislative clerk read the nomination of robert mckinnon califf, of south carolina, to be commissioner of food and drugs, department of health and human services. the presiding officer. the senator from florida. mr. nelson. mr. president, i ask unanimous consent to speak as in morning business. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered. (the remarks of mr. nelson pertaining to the introduction of s. 2558 are printed in today's record under ``statements on introduced bills and joint resolutions.'') mr. nelson. mr. president, i suggest the absence of a quorum. the presiding officer. the clerk will call the roll. the senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll. mr. mcconnell. mr. president, i ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered.