[congressional record volume 162, number 10 (tuesday, january 19, 2016)] [senate] [pages s87-s88] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] the continuing challenge of martin luther king, jr. mr. durbin. mr. president, yesterday americans once again paused to remember a great and prophetic leader, the rev. dr. martin luther king, jr. chances are, you heard a snippet yesterday of dr. king's immortal ``i have a dream'' speech. maybe you heard a tape of dr. king dreaming of that day when ``my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character.'' that is the martin luther king, jr., that we like to remember: the dreamer. but dr. king did more than inspire us. he challenged us. and he challenges us still. dr. king told us about his dream for america in 1963. he was murdered in 1968. in the 5 years between the march on washington and his death, dr. king's mission--and his challenges to us--grew. like the prophet he was, in his final years, dr. king spoke more and more frequently and forcefully about injustice. many of the injustices that dr. king spoke of remain with us today. some are even greater today than when dr. king died. three years after dr. king's assassination, the writer carl wendell hines penned a poem which he entitled, ``a dead man's dream.'' these are his words: now that he is safely dead let us praise him build monuments to his glory, sing hosannas to his name. dead men make such convenient heroes. they cannot rise to challenge the images we would fashion from their lives. and besides, it is easier to build monuments than to make a better world. so now that he is safely dead we, with eased consciences, can teach our children that he was a great man, knowing that the cause for which he lived is still a cause and the dream for which he died is still a dream a dead man's dream. so wrote the poet carl wendell hines 45 years ago. the civil rights act of 1964 and the voting rights act of 1965 were two of the most important laws passed in the last century. dr. king's leadership and the sacrifices of millions of other men and women of good faith who believed in his mission were indispensable to the passage of those two historic laws. but dr. king knew that civil rights and voting rights were only partial victories without economic justice. as he, himself, said of the now iconic greensboro lunch counter sit-ins: ``what good is having the right to sit at a lunch counter if you cannot afford to buy a hamburger?'' at the end of his life, dr. king was planning what he called the poor people's campaign. he was challenging america to offer greater economic justice and opportunity to poor people of all races and backgrounds. we have much more work to do if we are going to make that part of dr. king's dream a reality. the great recession ended officially in 2009. economic growth has returned to america. but for african americans and many other americans, economic fairness is farther out of reach than it is been in decades. wall street has regained all of the value it lost in the great recession and then some. but middle-class and working-class americans have not recovered from that economic disaster. when you factor in inflation, the average american family has not had a raise since 1971, shortly after dr. king's death. a recent survey shows that 62 percent of americans have less than $1,000 in their savings accounts--and a third of those undersavers have no savings account at all. in 1965, the average ceo was paid 20 times as much as the average worker in his or her--usually his--company. today the average ceo earns more than 295 times as much as the average worker. the economic disparities are even greater when you factor in race. think about this: african americans are almost three times more likely to live in poverty today than white americans. and the median net worth of white households is 13 times the level for black households. we have a long way to go to achieve dr. king's dream of economic justice and fairness in america. we should strengthen the wall street reforms that congress passed to prevent a repeat of the kind of recklessness that caused the great recession, not gut those reforms. dr. king was murdered in memphis, tn, where he had gone to show support for striking sanitation workers. two months earlier, two black sanitation workers in memphis had been crushed to death by faulty equipment. the city's sanitation workers organized a strike for job safety, better pay, and the right to unionize; and dr. king took on their cause. for years now, the rights of working people to band together and unionize has been under attack--an attack financed by wealthy corporate interests. earlier this month, the u.s. supreme court heard arguments in friedrichs v. california teachers' association, which asks the court to overrule decades of precedent protecting the ability of working people to win fair wages and working conditions through effective unionizing. if we truly believe in the america martin luther king gave his life for, we should protect the right of workers to form and join unions, not work to diminish and destroy that right. the words that dr. king spoke at the 1963 march on washington have become part of our american creed. but the 1963 march was not the first time that martin luther king had spoken to a large crowd in washington. in 1957, on the third anniversary of the supreme court's historic brown v. board of education decision that found segregated, ``separate but equal'' schools to be inherently unequal and unconstitutional, a 29-year-old martin luther king spoke in washington at a rally billed as a prayer pilgrimage for freedom. for 3 years, southern states had engaged in what they called ``massive resistance'' to the supreme court's ruling. martin luther king titled his remarks at the 1957 prayer pilgrimage give us the ballot. his message was simple: if congress and other elected officials will not enforce the law of the land, give african americans the ballot, and ``we will elect legislatures that will.'' eight years later, congress passed the voting rights act. for years, the voting rights act was hailed by both parties as a great achievement. it was repeatedly reauthorized by large, bipartisan majorities in congress. in 2013, however, a slim conservative majority on the supreme court gutted the voting rights act in shelby county v. holder by striking down the provision that required certain jurisdictions to preclear any changes to their voting laws with the department of justice. if we truly believe in dr. king's dream for america, let us work together to restore the voting rights act this year. one year to the day before he died, dr. king delivered a sermon at riverside church in new york city that cost him the support of many old political allies. it was a speech condemning america's actions in the war in vietnam. [[page s88]] if dr. king were alive today, i think he would be heartbroken, and he would challenge us to confront the tidal wave of guns that have turned so many american neighborhoods into combat zones. yes, the second amendment speaks of a right to bear arms. but children ought to have a right to play on school playgrounds without getting caught in gang crossfire. americans ought to be able to go to a movie or to a college lecture or a church bible study class without risking being killed by someone who is too sick or too dangerous to have a gun but has one anyway. martin luther king was taken from us by gun violence. if we truly believe in his dream, let us work together to find ways to keep guns out of the wrong hands. ``it is easier to build monuments than to make a better world.'' that is what the poet said. but people do not elect us to do the easy work. they expect us to do the hard work, the necessary work, of making america better, fairer, and more secure. i ask my colleagues: let us work together to advance economic justice, protect voting rights, and end the violence that is turning too many american neighborhoods into war zones. in short, let us work together to advance dr. king's dream. ____________________