Press Releases
Gallego, Moran Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Bolster Small Transit Intensive Cities Program
WASHINGTON – Senators Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) and Jerry Moran (R-KS)introduced bipartisan legislation to bolster the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Small Transit Intensive Cities (STIC) program by increasing the Section 5307 grant allotment – which the STIC program utilizes – from 3 percent to 5 percent to help increase the efficiency and capacity of public transportation in communities with populations between 50,000 and 200,000. The allotment does not necessitate an increase in federal spending; it simply allocates existing funding where it is needed most and rewards high-performing STIC participants.  “Small urban areas like Flagstaff, Sierra Vista, and Yuma are doing all they can to keep up with
Read More »
November 25, 2025
Gallego Joins Food Banks Across Arizona Ahead of Thanksgiving
ARIZONA – Senator Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) visited food banks across Arizona this week to meet with staff and volunteers, learn more about their operations, and thank them for their service to working families ahead of the holiday season. On Monday, Senator Gallego visited the Santa Cruz Valley Food Pantry in Eloy and the St. Vincent de Paul Food Bank in Casa Grande. Today, he visited the Nourish Food Distribution Center in Phoenix. Senator Gallego assists volunteers at Santa Cruz Food Bank in Eloy, AZ “One of the things I’ve always asked is: Is demand up? What’s happening? Are you getting enough food? Are you getting
Read More »
November 25, 2025
Gallego Hosts Veterans Town Hall in Casa Grande
CASA GRANDE – Today, Senator Ruben Gallego (D-AZ) hosted a Veterans Town Hall in Casa Grande to hear directly from veterans in Congressional District 6 about the challenges they’re facing, from VA cuts to Trump’s deployment of the National Guard in American cities. This is Senator Gallego’s fourth Veterans Town Hall.   At the town hall, Senator Gallego spoke about the rise in fraud targeting veterans and encouraged attendees to work with their local Veteran Service Organizations (VSOs) to help avoid scams. Representatives from the Arizona Attorney General’s Office were also available to provide attendees with resources. Earlier this year, Senator Gallego supported the Veterans Fraud Reimbursement Actto
Read More »
November 24, 2025
Popular Keywords
Categories
No Record Found
View All Results