WATCH: Senator Gallego Questions BLM Official on Agency’s Staffing Shortages, Arizona Energy Projects
WASHINGTON –
Today, during a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing,
Senator Ruben Gallego (D-AZ)
pressed Bureau of Land Management (BLM) officials on the agency’s staffing shortages, Arizona renewable energy projects, and Tribal partnerships.
Watch Senator Gallego’s questioning
HERE
.
In his opening remarks, Senator Gallego underscored the dangers of BLM’s staffing crisis, which undermines Arizona’s land management goals.
“We’ll get to some of the Arizona questions specifically, but first I want to point out an underlying challenge that impacts every potential use of public lands, which is staffing,”
said Senator Gallego.
“Regardless of what use you’d like to see BLM lands go to, you need BLM staff to get it approved. And 15 to 20 percent of BLM staff have been fired or forced to retire since the beginning of this year, and not including layoff plans that are currently on hold. So that just doesn’t make sense, and I urge the Administration to reverse course.”
Arizona has 12.1 million acres of BLM lands and over 17 million subsurface acres. These lands are home to some of Arizona’s most important resources, including sacred tribal sites, 45 miles of the Arizona scenic trail, and over 55 thousand mining claims.
Senator Gallego also questioned witness Jim Kenna, former Arizona State Director for the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) about his work on the Restoration Design Energy Project, which improved opportunities for renewable energy development by reusing disturbed and reclaimed mining sites.
“There is no substitute for the on-the-ground knowledge and the on-the-ground information when you are doing land-use planning. Each plan and each area is going to be different and unique. That was true in the Restoration Design Energy Project,”
said Mr. Kenna.
“When a mine is decommissioned, mines generally are big consumers of power. The decommissiong historically, has been reclaim the site and take out the power line. But if you’ve got an already disturbed site that’s been flattened and it has power access into the grid, why not take advantage of that? So that was the concept behind it.”
Senator Gallego also emphasized the importance of Tribal consultation in energy projects. Arizona is home to 22 federally recognized tribes.
11/19/25