Senator Coons Facebook
Senator Coons Instagram
Senator Coons Twitter
Senator Coons Youtube
News
Press Releases
Senators Coons, Blunt Rochester, colleagues advocate for passage of a bill to pay military personnel and all federal employees during government shutdown
October 27, 2025
WASHINGTON
–
U.S. Senators Chris Coons (D-Del.), Ranking Member on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) and Gary Peters (D-Mich.) along with dozens of their Senate colleagues, introduced legislation to pay military personnel, federal employees, and federal contractors whose salaries have been interrupted by the ongoing government shutdown.
The bill ensures that both furloughed employees, as well as employees who have been excepted from furlough status and are continuing to work, are guaranteed to receive their standard pay. The bill would also require that all employees receive any delayed compensation within one week of enactment, to ensure they are paid in a timely fashion.
“Delaware’s federal workers, contractors, and service men and women shouldn’t have to suffer because of the Republican shutdown,”
said Senator Coons
. “This bill ensures that millions of American families will be able to pay their bills despite Republican intransigence and spares them from financial pain while the nation waits for President Trump and his allies to come to their senses.”
“No federal worker should go without pay because Republicans refuse to end this government shutdown. That goes for the nearly 7,000 in Delaware and the millions across the country,”
said Senator Blunt Rochester.
“I’m proud to be joining my colleagues in advocating for our public servant constituents because it’s totally unacceptable for them to be used as pawns in the Trump administration’s political games.
“This shutdown is not an accident. Republicans right now are refusing to negotiate with Democrats on a bipartisan solution to help address the health care crisis,”
said Senator Peters
. “And now, as a result of that, federal workers are paying the price. My bill ensures that no worker is left behind during this difficult period.”
In addition to Senators Coons, Blunt Rochester, and Peters, the bill is also cosponsored by U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.). Tina Smith (D-Minn.), Angela Alsobrooks (D-Md.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Mark Warner (D-Va.). Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Ben Ray Lujan (D-N.M.), Andy Kim (D-N.J.), Mark Kelly (D-Ariz.), Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), John Hickenlooper (D-Colo.), Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.), Alex Padilla (D-Calif.). Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Angus King (I-Maine), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Jon Ossoff (D-Ga.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), Jacky Rosen (D-Nev.), Raphael Warnock (D-Ga.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Elissa Slotkin (D-Mich.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), and Adam Schiff (D-Calif.).
The bill would also include restrictions that limit how the funding can be used, and it bars the Trump administration from spending the funds for any purposes other than compensating servicemembers, federal employees, and contractors.
The bill is supported by the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE), the National Federation of Federal Employees (NFFE), the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers (IFPTE) and the American Federation of Teachers (AFT).
Previous Article
Next Article
nav-mobile-modal
search-mobile-modal