Senator Coons Facebook
Senator Coons Instagram
Senator Coons Twitter
Senator Coons Youtube
News
Press Releases
Senators Coons, Tillis, introduce bipartisan resolution honoring the life of Dr. Jane Goodall
November 06, 2025
WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Chris Coons (D-Del.) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) introduced a bipartisan resolution honoring the life Dr. Jane Goodall that recognizes her legacy as an ethologist, conservationist, and activist.
“Dr. Jane Goodall’s groundbreaking discoveries reshaped our understanding of our closest animal relatives and with that our understanding of what it means to be human,”
said Senator Coons, Co-Chair of the International Conservation Caucus
. “Our bipartisan Jane Goodall Day resolution will give our country the opportunity to celebrate her unwavering dedication to our planet, the generation of scientists she inspired with her fierce determination, and the hope for our future she kept alive in all of us.”
“Dr. Jane Goodall devoted her life to deepening our understanding of nature and inspiring others to care for it,”
said Senator Tillis
. “Her legacy will continue to guide scientists, conservationists, and future generations around the world for decades to come, and I’m proud to join my colleagues in recognizing her extraordinary life through the establishment of Jane Goodall Day.”
Born on April 3, 1934, Dr. Goodall was a lifelong advocate for science and conservation and the driving force behind the world’s longest-running wild primate study, the research of chimpanzees in their natural habitat in Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania. Her findings on the tool-making practices of chimpanzees revolutionized science and redefined the way animals are perceived and studied. Dr. Goodall was one of the first female wildlife field researchers and inspired countless other women to follow in her footsteps. Through the Jane Goodall Institute, Dr. Goodall provided over 300 scholarships to young women to support their education and promote women in science. Dr. Goodall passed away on October 1, 2025 at the age of 91.
The Jane Goodall Institute, which Dr. Goodall established in 1977 and now includes chapters in 26 countries, spearheads the Gombe Stream National Park study in Tanzania, supports the protection and restoration of the natural world, innovates new practices in community-led conservation, and promotes environmental education. The institute also established the Tchimpounga Chimpanzee Rehabilitation Center in the Republic of Congo in 1992 to care for chimpanzees orphaned by the illegal commercial bushmeat and pet trades, and has cared for over 200 chimpanzees since its founding. In 2002, Dr. Goodall was named a U.N. Messenger of Peace – the United Nations’ highest honor – in recognition of her peacebuilding work with the Roots & Shoots Youth Program, which has empowered nearly 1.5 million young people in over 75 countries.
In addition to Senators Coons and Tillis, the resolution is also cosponsored by U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), and Peter Welch (D-Vt.).
The text of the resolution is available
here
.
Previous Article
Next Article
nav-mobile-modal
search-mobile-modal