chair recognizes the general general lady from california miss bergon for five minutes. mr. speaker, this week i have the honor of traveling to the beaches of normandy, france, along with the congressional delegation to commemorate the 75th anniversary of d-day. on the exact site, we are over 2,500 brave americans were to, in the words of abraham lincoln, give their last full measure of devotion. several among those fallen were some of the nearly 500,000 latino soldiers who served in world war two. by the end of that war, 17 mexican americans received the congressional medal of honor, a source of great pride for the latino community, and a legacy of honor that has continued throughout modern history, which now counts 60 medal of honors awarded to soldiers of hispanic heritage. among the military units, with hispanic representation that participated in the d-day invasion was the army 79th infantry division, which landed at utah beach. the d-day forces included men like nick alvarez from california who led a tank crew that broke through the german defences that day, helping to put the allies on the offensive, and ultimately helped lead to the fall of nazi germany. those d-day forces also included private andrew ortega from anaheim, california, who was one of the very first americans to land on omaha beach as part of a team of engineers tasked with finding and neutralizing landmines ahead of the infantrymen taking part in the assault. under relentless fire from german guns, private ortega searched for and defused landmines, no bigger than eggs, his heroic efforts in the face of horrific danger, no doubt saved countless american lives. as we make ready to honor all the troops participating in the d-day invasion, i would like to take special mention of private louis martin, who was a resident of my home district in wilmington, california, and who was pictured here in this photo provided by his family. private martin was born in demi, new mexico in 1914 and moved to wilmington as a young adult. by the time louis was drafted into the army, he was married and he had a two-year-old daughter. louis was a member of the us army first infantry division, which landed on omaha beach on d-day, and it is there on the sounds of that beach 75 years ago that private martin gave his life for the freedom of his family and his countrymen and for the future generations of americans. we, as a nation, are forever indebted to him and it gives me great pride to have him remembered here today. i would like to thank those that served and i would like to extend my deepest condolences to private martin's family and friends and to thank private martin and all those members of the armed forces who so bravely fought and so gallantly sacrificed their lives in the service of our nation during the d-day invasion. it is with the greatest appreciation for their courage and determination and fierce belief in this nation for which it stands that i pay tribute to these fallen soldiers today and it is in their honor that i pledge to endeavor within this body to strive ever harder to fulfill the promise of this nation proposed by our founders and paid for with the blood of soldiers like those who fell 75 years ago on the sands of normandy. thank you. i you will back.