i am the project manager for mom's clean air force and our latino engagement program called ecolmailitis. i am so excited to welcome you today as we celebrate congresswoman by ragan's announcement of a new resolution called protecting latino moms from extreme heat and air pollution. while extreme weather and air pollution affect everyone, low income families and communities of color, often burn the brunt of these challenges, compounded by the systemic issues of housing discrimination, unequal access to healthcare and language barriers. through my experiences growing up in costa rica and living and working in vulnerable communities both there and in the u.s. and dealing with natural disasters, water shortages, vector born diseases, i know that environmental injustices show up in issues of public health and affect people's quality of life. this is what brought me to work with ecolmailitis to help engage and educate latino parents and caregivers on the link between the health of the environment and the health of people. and to ensure that all families have the tools and platforms to advocate for stronger environmental regulations, especially when it comes to something as fundamental as the air that we breathe. ecolmailitis we focus on protecting the health and the future of latino families that we listen and learn from every day talking about how they are living right next to toxic pollution sources. and this work starts by making sure that our mothers and our parents are protected during the vulnerable period of pregnancy. so this resolution that representative by ragan is introducing today really highlights the unique risks that pregnant latina space in the u.s. and how this jeopardizes both maternal and infant well-being. so this resolution is a powerful testament to how community advocacy can really drive change. and we are, we could not be more grateful that this is happening today and it is just a huge step forward. and soon you will hear from true leaders in this movement from the national hispanic health foundation and the national national campesinas, the national alliance of women farmworkers. but with that, it is my absolute honor to introduce california representative naneh dias barragan. thank you so much for your leadership and the care that you bring to this cause. thank you. thank you so much. there you go. well, thank you danielle. good afternoon everyone. thank you for being here with us. and thank you to the advocates, to our moms and to our young ones that are even advocates to, for latina maternal health that have come here today that stand every day on this issue and that will continue to advocate for latina moms. so today i am introducing a resolution to highlight the devastating impact that extreme heat and air pollution have on the health of latina mothers and their babies. now in many communities across the country, particularly in low income, latina neighborhoods, mothers are more exposed to dangerous levels of pollution and rising temperatures creating serious health risk during pregnancy. just take a look at phoenix, arizona, for example. so far, phoenix has had 113 consecutive days of temperatures above 100 degrees. think about that more than three months of straight 100 degree days. that is dangerous for everyone. but air pollution and extreme health are not just environmental issues, they are issues of equity and health. and latino mothers, we know are more likely to live in areas with high levels of pollution which expose them to toxins that can lead to things like preterm birth, low weight, low birth weight, and then even still birth. so climate change worsens air pollution and increases extreme heat further threatening these communities. and we of course know that latina's and latinos, but in particular, latina's do more work outdoors and jobs like agriculture, which put the even higher risk of heat related pregnancy complications. and again, this is an issue of justice. latino communities already bearing the brunt of environmental injustice are now facing the compounded risk of heat and pollution during pregnancy. too many latinos do not have access to things like proper health care, air conditioning or green spaces that places them and their babies at greater risk. now the biden harris administration have taken some meaningful steps. they have launched the heat.gov portal for real time extreme heat data and they have proposed a rule to protect millions of workers from extreme heat. they have also created the office of climate and health equity at hhs to address climate related health issues. but this office still must be funded by congress to fully carry out the work. so i am proud that the implition reduction act was able to secure $3 billion for climate and environmental justice block grants, which can be used for clean energy and climate resilience in our communities. but we know far more must be done by congress and federal agencies. so my resolution calls for urgent, urgent policy action to protect the health of latina and others. and that includes in doing things like investing and clean air initiatives, professional training for health care workers on the vulnerabilities pregnant women face from pollution and extreme heat, bilingual air quality alerts that we make sure everybody knows in spanish as well, and improved maternal health care access in more. so we must act now to ensure that no mother has to choose between her health and her job between staying cool and protecting her unborn child. we can and we must do better for our mothers and our babies. and so i want to thank again all the advocates everybody for staying with us every single day. and now i have the honor to introduce amy tamiyo, who knows a great deal about the effects of heat and pollution on latina mothers as the national policy director of the national alliance of farm workers. amy, thank you. good afternoon. thank you, congresswoman barragan for your attention and efforts to protect latina's including farm worker women. my name is amy tamiyo and i am the national advocacy and policy director with alianza national decampacinas or the national alliance of farm worker women. there are an estimated 700,000 farm worker women and girls in the united states, the majority of whom are latinas and likely to be subjected to low wages, wage theft, discrimination, sexual violence and harassment and multiple health risks due to heat and chemical exposure. for weeks and sometimes months on end, farm workers are required to work through high temperatures, having to start their work day as early as 1 a.m. to avoid extreme temperatures during the day, which can cause heat stroke, dehydration, heat stress, high risk pregnancies or even death. without a federal standard ensuring workers paid shaded breaks, access to cool water or medical care if the experience heat related injuries, farm worker women often get sick from heat even though it is entirely preventable. without being able to cool off during the work day, it is even more crucial to be able to cool off after the work hours in the home. however, that is often not possible because of the poor housing conditions. in addition to heat, farm workers are also exposed to a lot of pollution because they are exposed to harmful chemicals in the workplace and in their communities. pesticide exposure in the fields is highly toxic and poses dangerous risks to farm worker women who are often not told which chemicals are being applied in the fields. what the associated risks are or how to protect themselves from those pesticides. this leads to many farm workers often times unknowingly exposing or contaminating their family members, something by such as accidentally contaminating their children's clothing, food, or skin, puts everybody at risk and sometimes simply just by living near the farms that they work in, their homes are also directly exposed by pesticide drift in the air. pesticide farm workers are particularly at risk of higher health impacts because some of the pesticide exposure can cause pre-term labor, miscarriages, infertility, and various forms of cancer affecting the reproductive system. additionally, many children of farm workers experience some of these health challenges as well due to the pesticide exposure during their mother's pregnancies. it has been well researched and found that some herbicides cause neurological behavioral developmental challenges due to the utero exposure to pesticides, but we also see high numbers of asthma, impaired vision, and hearing adhd and autism. farm worker families are also not likely to have health insurance or access to health care due to their immigration status or lack of resources. in fact, about 50% of farm workers do not have health insurance compared to the 10% of the general population. it is also common for farm worker women to struggle accessing health care due to the language barriers, living in isolated rural areas, or not being able to get an examination by health care providers that do not have the knowledge on what the health risks are from the heat and the pesticides. this means that many live with conditions that are undiagnosed and untreated for years. today, alianza is encouraged to hear congresswoman barragan prioritize the health needs of latina farm workers, and we are pleased about the introduction of this resolution because the farm worker women who help us nourish and take care of ourselves and our families also deserve to be taken care of. and they should not have to fear for their children's lives or their health when they go to work every day. thank you, and i would like to now introduce luz drava from the national echo madras team. thank you. good afternoon, everyone. i am luz drava, and i am the program coordinator for mams clean air force and echo madras. and this is dominic. he is my seven-year-old son. as a mam, this resolution brings me hope, and i believe that many of you feel the same way today. so today, i would like to share part of my story because this mission is very personal for me. in 2016, i was diagnosed with pre-clency. during the second trimester of my pregnancy, my first reaction to that diagnosed was feeling very, very scared. and i even wonder if i have done something wrong. with the realizing the impact of the climate change and air pollution, how affect expect the mothers and infants? to this day, i wonder if the answer to this issue should involve raising awareness among health professionals. many doctors will tell you to eat healthy and exercise, but they do not ask you to protect from high temperatures and or air pollution, especially if you are pregnant. in my case, did not help that i live in san luis, missouri at that time. in mid-dwest city, recently named the 30 and most polluted in the nation for ozone pollution. and according to the american law association, 2024 state of the year report, more than 131 million people still live in places with unhealthy levels of air pollution in san luis metro area that still has work to do. it was not until i joined mom's clean air force and a com address that i learned that a string heat is the leading cause of weather-related deaths in the u.s. and the string heat poses significant help to maternal and infant health. i went through a c-section at 36 weeks of my pregnancy. unfortunately, today, my son and i are both healthy. to this day, i wish someone would have told me to avoid going outside when the temperatures were extremely high. but also i know that in the u.s. latinas communities, like mine, are disproportionately impacted by string heat and air pollution. latinas, for example, are also a high risk for string heat exposure and air pollution because we are more likely to live in areas in the united states that are vulnerable to string heat. at mom's clean air force and a com address, we remain committed to educating latinas communities to empower them and mobilize them to fight for clean air and climate change solutions. this resolution is a big step in the right direction and feels made with optimism for our future and hope for our better tomorrow and for mothers and children. thank you all and right now is my pleasure to introduce our next speaker, the director of programs at the national hispanic health foundation, wadalupe pacheco. thank you. when i start this, good afternoon. it is interesting there is only two males up here. i am going to bring my perspective from two angles. number one, i am the oldest of 11. i got eight sisters. so i know some of the challenges that females face and also thinking about my mom, she was a product of a, she was a farm worker. so can you imagine when she was picking fruit, the exposure that she experienced in terms of pesticides? and she did have cancer, she did, luckily she recovered. but let me also just say that i am on behalf of dr. rielena rios, who is a president of the national hispanic health foundation. she would like to thank all of you here, especially congressman barregan for being such a strong advocate and a leader and advocating not only for health equity among latina women, especially in the area of environmental justice and maternal health. the national hispanic health foundation focuses on latino health equity. we focus on access through leadership, research and education. so latina health falls into those three action pillars. we know that latina has already been previously stated have existing health challenges, such as higher rates of obesity, diabetes, and other chronic health conditions. so you add climate change, you add extreme heat. that is like more added kind of challenges that latina women face. additionally, we know that latinas have higher, let us ignore, disproportionately are affected by environmental pollution as those are already been stated. and it is associated with health risks, adverse maternal health outcomes. so you have outcomes that are not very positive and they have negative consequences because of those environmental kind of conditions that they live under. so nhhf, the national health foundation, strongly against support, congressman barregan's resolution on protecting latina moms from health and pollution. and more importantly, to raise awareness of these issues, but also how we can take particular kind of action to mitigate these kind of issues that affect latina women. we, the national spanic health foundation, recognize that we need to do more research, look at policies and programs, and look at community-based interventions that can reduce the burden of extreme heat, environmental pollution to mothers and their children. so nhhf is ready and willing to advance this important work since its supports our mission. so again, thank you for letting nhhf be part of this important resolution announcement. and thank you for the opportunity to be part of this effort. all right. thank you so much to our speakers, luz dra, guadalupe patek, juan emit amajo for sharing your stories and for your ongoing commitment to this work. thank you to congressman barregan for introducing this resolution to protect latina moms from extreme heat and air pollution. this is a moment of celebration and inspiration to keep pushing for more change and will continue to do so as a collective. thank you so much. i do not know what to do with my hair. no, thank you. thank you.