home news press releases november 19, 2025 congressman maxwell frost appointed to critical transportation & infrastructure subcommittees to advance safer, more connected transit frost will serve on the subcommittees on highways & transit and on railroads, pipelines, & hazardous materials washington, d.c. — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) announced he was selected to serve on the critical subcommittee on highways & transit and on the subcommittee on railroads, pipelines, & hazardous materials housed within the powerful transportation & infrastructure committee. congressman frost was appointed to serve on the transportation & infrastructure committee in september. “central florida sent me to washington d.c. to deliver for them, and right now, we’re in a cost-of-living crisis that’s impacting everyone, and investing in transit that actually meets the needs of our people is one of the fastest ways to lift people up by connecting them to housing, jobs, and opportunity. on these subcommittees, i’ll be fighting to expand and modernize our transit systems, ease congestion, make our roads safer, and protect our planet for current and future generations," said rep. frost. “i’m grateful to ranking member larsen and my colleagues for the opportunity to help reimagine how our transit and rail systems can better serve our growing communities.” the committee’s selection of frost to these subcommittees underscores the congressman’s status as a strong voice for public transit and people-centered infrastructure. “representative maxwell frost hit the ground running this congress when he introduced his transit bus affordability act,” said ranking member larsen. “i look forward to working with representative frost on the subcommittee on highways and transit and the subcommittee on railroads, pipelines and hazardous materials to continue improving and expanding access to public transportation and passenger rail from coast to coast, including in my home state of washington and his of florida.” ### print email share tweet previous article