home news press releases september 16, 2025 congressman maxwell frost named to powerful transportation and infrastructure committee for 119th congress frost will use position on transportation & infrastructure to champion safer & more reliable public transit for central florida & communities nationwide washington, d.c. – today, u.s. representative maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) announced his appointment to the transportation and infrastructure committee for the 119th congress, allowing congressman frost to deliver on his mission to deliver safe, affordable, reliable transit to communities across the country. the committee oversees all modes of transportation—including america’s highways, transit, aviation, rail, pipelines, maritime transportation—as well as wastewater systems, emergency management, and the u.s. coast guard. “cities across the country—including orlando, one of the fastest growing metro areas in the country—are growing in ways that our existing infrastructure and transit systems can’t keep up with. that’s why investing in safer, cleaner, and more reliable public transit has always been one of my top priorities in congress. transit connects directly to affordable housing, access to good jobs, and directly impacts the overall quality of life in our communities, said rep. frost. “on the transportation and infrastructure committee, i look forward to working with my colleagues to build greener, more accessible, and more livable communities that empower every person to thrive.” congressman frost has been a leading advocate for transportation. earlier this year, the congressman introduced the transit bus affordability act , which prompted the government accountability office to begin a study central to his bipartisan bill that would reduce costs and improve public transit for millions. this month, the congressman also introduced the faster buses better futures act , legislation that would create new grant programs to increase bus access and improve commutes. frost has also delivered historic investments in public transit for central florida, including securing more than $1 million in federal funding to improve the region’s transit system as well as bring additional federal dollars for the sunshine corridor , which would connect critical parts of central florida and advance high speed rail throughout the state of florida. ### print email share tweet previous article next article