home news press releases august 26, 2025 congressman maxwell frost introduces wheelchair right to repair act to empower wheelchair users with faster, affordable repairs watch the press conference here orlando, fl – today, congressman maxwell frost (d-fl) introduced the wheelchair right to repair act , landmark legislation that will make it easier, faster, and more affordable for more than a million americans who rely on power wheelchairs to get their devices repaired. the legislation is being co-led by congresswoman marie gluesenkamp perez (d-wa). frost was joined at the press conference by local disability rights champion jj holmes, and by state senator carlos guillermo smith and state representative anna eskamani at a press conference announcing the bill. earlier this year, senator smith and representative eskamani filed similar legislation in the florida legislature that passed unanimously in the florida house. currently, outdated federal law gives manufacturers outsized control over wheelchair parts and repairs, forcing users to wait weeks or even months for fixes, often at exorbitant costs. even simple repairs, like changing a tire or replacing a battery, can become lengthy ordeals that rob people of independence, keep them from work or school, and drive up out-of-pocket costs. the wheelchair right to repair act ensures wheelchair users can repair their own chairs or turn to trusted, locally-owned repair shops without fear of voiding their warranty. by removing unnecessary legal barriers, the bill restores freedom of choice, lowers costs, and shortens wait times for repairs. “power wheelchair users know their chairs better than anyone else, but right now they’re forced to wait months and pay hundreds of dollars for simple fixes that should take days and cost a fraction of the price,” said rep. maxwell frost . “the wheelchair right to repair act puts people back in control of their mobility and their independence.” advocates report that long delays and high costs are all too common: one user paid $500 out-of-pocket for a $20 part to start his chair. another was forced to wait six weeks and pay $300 for a flat tire that could have been replaced at home for $6. a woman faced a two-year wait for a needed modification, which eventually landed her in the emergency room. a manufacturer intentionally delayed travel to a rural area , forcing a user to spend weeks stuck indoors, tethered to an outlet. “my power wheelchair is like my legs but when it breaks, i’m told to wait months just to get the simplest stuff fixed. that means i’m stuck at home, and basically hitting pause on my whole life. that’s not just an inconvenience, that’s a total shutdown,” said disability rights advocate, jj holmes . “this bill is about more than repairs. it’s about saying that people with disabilities deserve the same freedom of choice, the same basic respect, that everyone else already has.” the wheelchair right to repair act would permanently exclude wheelchair parts from restrictive warranty laws that manufacturers exploit to maintain a monopoly on service. in doing so, it ensures that people with disabilities can get back to their lives quickly whether that means going to work, visiting family, or simply getting around their communities. the legislation is endorsed by the electronic frontier foundation and the united states public interest research group (u.s. pirg) . “people deserve the right to repair their assistive mobility devices, plain and simple. eff fully supports the wheelchair right to repair act,” said maddie daly, assistant director of federal affairs electronic frontier foundation . “as the broader movement to restore the right to repair picks up steam, this legislation should be looked to as a blueprint. we are grateful to rep. frost for his work on this issue.” “right to repair means that when the manufacturer or their authorized agents fail to offer timely, cost-effective repairs, you have options. nobody should have to wait weeks for a manufacturer-approved technician to fix a device they own, especially for something as essential to daily life as your wheelchair. lawmakers in colorado, nevada, oregon, and washington have ensured this is the case in their states by passing strong bipartisan wheelchair right to repair laws. u.s. pirg applauds rep. frost and rep. marie gluesenkamp perez for bringing that bipartisan momentum to congress and introducing the wheelchair right to repair act. this bill will empower wheelchair users in every state to keep moving and make the best, most efficient decisions on how to fix these vital devices,” said isaac bowers, federal legislative director, u.s. pirg . ### print email share tweet previous article next article