home news press releases september 09, 2025 congressman maxwell frost unveils legislation to deliver faster, more pleasant, and reliable public transit nationwide — the faster buses better futures act washington, d.c. — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) introduced the faster buses better futures act , legislation that would encourage cities to modernize their bus systems by creating new grant programs to increase bus access and improve commutes. last year, people took 7.7 billion public transportation trips in the united states, nearly half a billion more than the year before, which represents a 25% increase in public transit use since 2022. cities like houston, austin, miami, new york, and washington, d.c., have recently found that thoughtful, modernized bus system redesigns, in partnership with their residents, can save money, shorten commutes, and increase ridership and transit access. rep. frost's legislation builds on the successes of these cities to bring faster, more connected bus systems to cities nationwide. "getting to work, school, or a doctor's appointment without a car should not be impossible. however, the reality is that outdated bus systems often leave people with long waits, multiple transfers, or even still having to drive part of the way. the faster buses better futures act helps cities redesign their bus systems so routes actually work for riders and can get people where they need to go, when they need to get there," said congressman maxwell frost. "when buses work better for our communities, everybody wins—including our planet—and this bill will give transit agencies the tools to make those systems a reality." the comprehensive faster buses better futures act will encourage cities to undergo bus system modernizations that will always be up to date by: requiring bus system redesigns every 20 years for large cities to stay eligible for federal transit funding; creating a grant program that will fund 100% of a bus system’s operating costs for three years and 33% of the operating costs for the following three years if that system is redesigned to double ridership over that period; adding more funding for new, weather-appropriate bus shelters and for making transit stations more accessible; giving transit agencies more say in street construction projects so that transit is prioritized when construction on roadways occurs, and adding funding for additional fta staff in order to manage these new grants along with their existing workload. the bill has been endorsed by the green new deal network , transport workers union (twu) , transportation for america , national campaign for transit justice , central florida regional transportation authority (lynx) , salt outreach, orlando yimby, and orlando bike coalition . "buses are the backbone of transit systems across this country. but for too long, they have been treated as afterthoughts: routes that do not go where people want to go as often as they want to; stops that leave people standing on the side of the road in all kinds of weather; and trips that take too long because buses full of people get the same treatment as single-occupancy vehicles. the faster buses better futures act brings an entire collection of programs and policy changes to the already robust transit legislation space in order to finally give bus drivers and bus riders the respect they deserve. we commend rep. frost's office for introducing this desperately needed bill," said saul levin, campaign and political director for the green new deal network . "thriving bus systems are better for transit workers and the traveling public. this bill would critically increase federal funding for bus networks that are growing by providing operating and capital funds that aim to increase ridership," said twu international president john samuelsen. "buses are the workhorse of every city's transportation system, but our cities are growing and changing in ways that we could not have predicted when most of our bus networks were designed. with the the faster buses better futures act, representative frost is recognizing the critical need to bring our buses up to speed with the growing demands of our cities and ensuring that we invest in a future that provides everyone with the freedom to move," said stevie pasamonte, senior organizer at alliance for a just society and the national campaign for transit justice. “as a nation, we understand the importance of an efficient, effective, and reliable public transportation system. unfortunately, funding is not always available to accomplish this goal. the faster buses better futures act removes that hurdle and highlights how our federal government can partner with local communities to create world-class transit systems. thank you, congressman frost, for recognizing this and helping to make sure that together we can meet the needs of our constituents with new capital and operating dollars to create modern transit systems. i know here in central florida this will be exciting for our residents and tourists who make this the world's no. 1 family destination," said viviana janer, chair of osceola county commission and lynx. “at salt outreach, we see every day how the lack of transportation keeps people experiencing homelessness from getting to jobs, healthcare, and housing. that is why the faster buses better futures act matters so much. by expanding bus access and prioritizing equity in system redesigns, this legislation will break down barriers and help build stronger, more connected communities for all," said eric camarillo, president of salt outreach. “orlando yimby continues to appreciate congressman frost’s support of investing in multimodal transportation options as a means to reduce traffic congestion, ease polluting emissions that are increased by dependency on single occupancy automobiles, and to promote transportation equity. the faster buses better future act has our full and unconditional support,” said eric grimmer, chapter lead for orlando yimby. “the orlando bike coalition is excited to support projects that make it easier to navigate the region without a personal vehicle. there is a lot of crossover between bicycle commuters and bus riders, and improving the bus network helps reduce the number of vehicles on our roadways. obc is looking forward to a better bus network that better supports those biking to/from bus stops or bringing their bikes onboard,” said beth resta, president of orlando bike coalition. ### print email share tweet previous article next article