home news press releases filter collapse november 19, 2025 congressman maxwell frost appointed to critical transportation & infrastructure subcommittees to advance safer, more connected transit washington, d.c. — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) announced he was selected to serve on the critical subcommittee on highways & transit and on the subcommittee on railroads, pipelines, & hazardous materials housed within the powerful transportation & infrastructure committee. congressman frost was appointed to serve on the transportation & infrastructure committee in september. “central florida sent me to washington d.c. to deliver for them, and right now, … continue reading november 12, 2025 congressman maxwell frost statement on house passage of stopgap funding bill washington, d.c. — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) released a statement following house passage of a stopgap funding bill to temporarily keep the government funded through the end of january and reopen the government. in a statement, rep. frost says: “in this funding bill congressional republicans and the white house are cruelly choosing to let health care premiums soar for 20 million working americans families. it’s a choice they’ve made clear that they are comfortable … continue reading november 10, 2025 congressman maxwell frost statement on senate passage of funding deal washington, d.c. — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) released a statement following senate passage of a funding bill to temporarily keep the government funded through the end of january. in a statement, rep. frost says: “this funding fight was supposed to be about addressing the urgency of rising health care costs for 20 million americans brought on by this administration’s failed policies and republican inaction. instead, the senate gave up in exchange for an empty promise … continue reading november 06, 2025 congressman maxwell frost statement on faa flight reductions amid gop government shutdown orlando, fl — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) released a statement following news that the federal aviation administration (faa) will reduce an estimated 4,000 to 5,000 flights daily at 40 airports nationwide, including orlando international airport (mco), due to the republican government shutdown. in a statement, rep. frost says: “amid the longest government shutdown in our nation’s history, the faa will now begin reducing daily flights at airports nationwide, including … continue reading october 24, 2025 as government shutdown persists, frost calls on state leaders to prevent disruption of food benefits for nearly 3 million floridians orlando, fl — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) sent a letter to governor ron desantis and the florida legislature demanding the state convene a special session and pass legislation that will fund snap for florida families amid a potential lapse in federal funding during the ongoing republican government shutdown. the florida department of children and families has sent a notice that come november 1st, three million floridians could be without vital food assistance in the … continue reading september 19, 2025 congressman maxwell frost statement on house passage of stopgap funding bill washington, d.c. — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) released a statement following house passage of a stopgap funding bill to temporarily keep the government funded through november 21 and potentially avoid a government shutdown. in a statement, rep. frost says: “healthcare costs are crushing working families and forcing them to make an impossible choice between food, rent, groceries, and medicine. in the richest country in the world, no one should have to live like … continue reading september 17, 2025 congressman maxwell frost brings orange county school board member stephanie vanos to testify at oversight hearing on the future of education watch the hearing here washington, d.c. — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10), ranking member of the subcommittee on economic growth, energy policy, and regulatory affairs, welcomed orange county school board member stephanie vanos who he invited to testify as the minority witness during an oversight subcommittee hearing on education titled “opening doors to opportunity: the promise of expanded school choice and alternatives to four-year college degrees.” the hearing, called … continue reading september 16, 2025 congressman maxwell frost named to powerful transportation and infrastructure committee for 119th congress washington, d.c. - today, u.s. representative maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) announced his appointment to the transportation and infrastructure committee for the 119th congress, allowing congressman frost to deliver on his mission to deliver safe, affordable, reliable transit to communities across the country. the committee oversees all modes of transportation—including america’s highways, transit, aviation, rail, pipelines, maritime transportation—as well as wastewater systems, emergency … continue reading september 10, 2025 breaking: frost bipartisan bill to fix gaps in hurricane preparedness passes committee, heads to house floor washington, d.c. — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) announced his bipartisan bill, the fixing gaps in hurricane preparedness act to save lives in the event of a hurricane or tropical storm has passed the house as part of a larger legislative package, the weather act reauthorization act of 2025 (h.r.5089). frost’s bill would ensure that hurricane preparedness tools, alerts, and planning systems would address the needs of seniors, people with disabilities, non-english … continue reading september 09, 2025 congressman maxwell frost unveils legislation to deliver faster, more pleasant, and reliable public transit nationwide — the faster buses better futures act washington, d.c. — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) introduced the faster buses better futures act, legislation that would encourage cities to modernize their bus systems by creating new grant programs to increase bus access and improve commutes. last year, people took 7.7 billion public transportation trips in the united states, nearly half a billion more than the year before, which represents a 25% increase in public transit use since 2022. cities like houston, austin, … continue reading september 06, 2025 congressman maxwell frost statement on the passing of the honorable mable butler orlando, fl — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) released a statement following the death of former commissioner and councilwoman, mable butler. in a statement, rep. frost says: "i am deeply saddened by the news of the honorable mable butler’s passing. this is a profound loss for our central florida community. “the honorable mable butler made history for central florida as the first african american woman to serve on orlando city’s council and afterwards as the first african … continue reading september 04, 2025 congressman maxwell frost reintroduces expanded epipen act to cap cost of life-saving allergy medication washington, d.c. — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (d-fl) and congresswoman doris matsui (d-ca) reintroduced the epipen act, legislation aimed at broadening access to lifesaving allergy medication by capping out-of-pocket costs for epinephrine at $60 for a two-pack for those with employer-based or individually purchased health insurance. originally introduced during the 118th congress, the updated 2025 version expands the bill’s scope beyond syringe-based auto-injectors like … continue reading september 03, 2025 frost slams ron desantis for ignoring public health and announcing plans to end vaccine mandates in the state washington, d.c. — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) released a statement following a press conference hosted by florida governor ron desantis, where he and florida surgeon general joseph ladapo made the reckless announcement that the state will be the first to end all vaccine mandates that curb the spread of infectious diseases. rep. frost issued the following statement: “ron desantis and his fraud of a surgeon general want floridians to die of diseases that have been … continue reading august 26, 2025 congressman maxwell frost introduces wheelchair right to repair act to empower wheelchair users with faster, affordable repairs watch the press conference here orlando, fl - today, congressman maxwell frost (d-fl) introduced the wheelchair right to repair act, landmark legislation that will make it easier, faster, and more affordable for more than a million americans who rely on power wheelchairs to get their devices repaired. the legislation is being co-led by congresswoman marie gluesenkamp perez (d-wa). frost was joined at the press conference by local disability rights champion jj holmes, and by state senator … continue reading august 21, 2025 frost statement on federal judge ruling halting operations at horrific everglades immigration detention center orlando, fl — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) released a statement following a federal judge’s decision ordering the state of florida and the trump administration to halt construction and wind down operations at the everglades immigrant detention center, also known as “alligator alcatraz.” in her ruling, u.s. district judge kathleen williams cited the extensive environmental damage caused to the florida everglades as a result of the detention center. under the order, the … continue reading august 21, 2025 breaking: maxwell frost announces location and timeline for new orlando passport office orlando, fl — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) announced that the state department has released the official location for the new orlando passport office. the state department has signed a lease to establish the office just north of the orlando international airport at 5520 gatlin avenue, orlando, fl 32812 . the anticipated substantial completion deadline for the passport office is summer 2027. after years of fighting for the state department to expand passport services to … continue reading august 19, 2025 congressman frost reintroduces bipartisan “safe air on airplanes act” to protect passengers and flight crews washington, d.c. — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10), congressmen mike lawler (r-ny) and john garamendi (d-ca) reintroduced the bipartisan safe air on airplanes act, legislation to secure clean air on airplanes to ensure the safety of the nearly 3 million people including flight crews and passengers that fly daily. specifically, the safe air on airplanes act would work to phase out bleed air systems which currently exist on almost all commercial aircraft and supply the air we … continue reading august 08, 2025 frost scores victory as bipartisan committee action moves his transit bus affordability plan forward washington, d.c. — u.s. representative maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) today celebrated a major step forward for his bipartisan transit bus affordability act, as the house committee on transportation and infrastructure formally requested that the government accountability office (gao) conduct a study on the rising costs of transit bus manufacturing - a core provision of frost’s bill. the request, led by committee ranking member rick larsen (d-wa) and reps. frost and mike turner (r-oh), … continue reading august 07, 2025 congressman maxwell frost calls out florida gop’s effort to cheat voters with partisan redistricting orlando, fl — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) issued a statement slamming the florida house speaker for convening a select committee on congressional redistricting to redraw and gerrymander florida’s congressional map ahead of the 2026 midterm elections. the move comes as a wave of republican-controlled states - led by texas and governor greg abbott - rush to suppress democratic voters in a desperate attempt to cling to their majority in the house of representatives. in a … continue reading july 30, 2025 congressman maxwell frost blasts florida attorney general’s threats to remove orange county government officials over immigration enforcement orlando, fl — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) issued a statement slamming florida attorney general james uthmeier, for threatening to remove orange county commissioners and mayor jerry demings, after orange county leaders rejected a proposal that would force county corrections staff to transport federal immigrant detainees to federal detention facilities. uthmeier’s threat comes as florida’s newly appointed cfo has announced the state is auditing the county’s spending. in a … continue reading showing page showing page 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 of 10 « previous next »