home news press releases august 21, 2025 breaking: maxwell frost announces location and timeline for new orlando passport office orlando, fl — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) announced that the state department has released the official location for the new orlando passport office. the state department has signed a lease to establish the office just north of the orlando international airport at 5520 gatlin avenue, orlando, fl 32812 . the anticipated substantial completion deadline for the passport office is summer 2027. after years of fighting for the state department to expand passport services to central florida, last summer congressman frost announced that orlando would be home to a new passport agency to help floridians with their passport needs. “for years, floridians have shared how frustrating and costly it is to travel to miami for urgent passport services, and since day one, my office has been working to address those concerns. we worked through the gridlock and chaos in washington to deliver a solution, and today’s announcement of the location for the orlando passport office puts us one step closer to finally making these services accessible to our community,” said congressman frost . “starting in 2027, this new location will save families the time, stress, and cost of an eight-hour round trip to miami by bringing this vital service closer to home for folks right here in orlando but also across the sunshine state and the southeast.” congressman frost has been a vocal advocate for the creation of a new passport office in central florida since taking office. in 2023, following his request , the miami passport office began offering weekend appointments to accommodate working families making the long trip to miami to obtain their passports. congressman frost continued to call on the state department for a long-term solution to the problem with the creation of a new central florida office. in collaboration with the state department, congressman frost’s office has also hosted “ pop-up passport days ,” an annual passport acceptance event that has helped hundreds of central floridians apply for or renew their passport. central floridians in need of assistance with their passports or with any federal agency are encouraged to contact rep. frost's office and learn more here . ### print email share tweet previous article next article