home news press releases august 19, 2025 congressman frost reintroduces bipartisan “safe air on airplanes act” to protect passengers and flight crews frost’s bill would prevent passengers and crew from inhaling toxic fumes on commercial jet planes washington, d.c . — today, congressman maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10), congressmen mike lawler (r-ny) and john garamendi (d-ca) reintroduced the bipartisan safe air on airplanes act, legislation to secure clean air on airplanes to ensure the safety of the nearly 3 million people including flight crews and passengers that fly daily. specifically, the safe air on airplanes act would work to phase out bleed air systems which currently exist on almost all commercial aircraft and supply the air we breathe through the engine’s compressors. when fuel or toxic fluids leak from the engine or other systems, it can lead to an injection of toxic air into the cabin, known as a a “fume event,” exposing passengers and crew to dangerous engine fumes and harmful chemicals that are small enough to pass through air filters, forcing passengers and cabin crews to inhale the harmful toxins. inhaling these fumes can lead to chronic illnesses which have ended the careers of pilots and flight attendants regularly exposed. and it can also have an immediate health impact on passengers including difficulty breathing, dizziness and vomiting, irregular heart rate, and memory loss. the boeing 787 model is the only airplane that does not use a bleed air system. congressman frost first introduced the bill in 2024, after hearing from local constituent shannon de witt, a flight attendant currently on medical level after being exposed to a fume event while on the job, gravely impacting his health and well-being. “airlines have a responsibility to protect everyone who steps on board. but for years, flight crews and passengers have been breathing toxic fumes and chemicals, creating a hidden health and safety hazard for everyone who flies,” said congressman maxwell frost. “while airlines look the other way from the growing concerns from employees and passengers about fume events, we’re stepping in at the federal level. the safe air on airplanes act will ensure a future where pilots, cabin crew, and passengers can breathe easy while flying without fear for their health.” “when folks get on a plane, they shouldn’t have to worry about the air they’re breathing. but right now, outdated bleed air systems are putting pilots, flight attendants, and passengers at risk. i’m proud to cosponsor the safe air on airplanes act to phase out these systems and make sure the air in our cabins is safe,” said congressman mike lawler. "every american deserves safe, clean air when they fly. i’m deeply troubled by the reports of pilots, flight attendants, and passengers falling ill, and in some cases even hospitalized, due to toxic cabin air. i’m proud to partner with congressman frost on legislation that will hold aircraft manufacturers to a fundamental safety standard: protecting passengers and crew from harmful toxins," said congressman john garamendi , a senior member of the house committee on transportation and infrastructure. “in today’s aviation industry, the use of various chemicals is essential for the operation of aircraft. as our awareness of the potential dangers associated with chemical exposure grows, we must take all necessary measures to reduce both low and high-level exposures. i strongly support the implementation of advanced cabin air filtration systems and the phase-out of engine bleed air systems. additionally, i trust in the importance of ethical healthcare programs for crew members, incorporating precision medicine to help prevent health issues and or recover from different types of aviation chemical exposures,” said shannon de witt , flight attendant and constituent of congressman frost. the safe air on airplanes act has been endorsed by the association of flight attendants – cwa, the international brotherhood of teamsters, and the transport workers union of america. "everyone who boards a plane should be able to trust that the air is clean and safe. we have known for decades that current bleed air systems can dump toxic chemicals and fuels into the aircraft cabin, poisoning the air for everyone on board. instead of making simple changes to protect us, manufacturers and airlines have prioritized corporate profits. flight attendants applaud rep. frost for his leadership on the bipartisan safe air on planes act. we will work with him to pass this critical legislation that protects our health and the health of the passengers in our care," said sara nelson, afa international president. "the airlines and the manufacturers want you to believe "fume events" are no big deal, but toxic air in my workplace made me dangerously sick. instead of addressing a real hazard, the industry gaslights passengers and aviation workers. i am deeply grateful that rep. frost and this bipartisan coalition are working to force the industry to do the right thing. i hope it can pass quickly so that corporate greed cannot sicken others like it has me," said cher taylor, mec government affairs chair. "thank you, rep. maxwell frost, rep. john garamendi, and rep. mike lawler for introducing this bill that is so critical to providing a basic level of safety for flight attendants in our workplace. toxic fume contamination occurs far too often, but through this bill, we can ensure that the air supply we breathe in the cabin does not poison our passengers or crew members, said julie hedrick, apfa national president , representing the 29,000 american airlines flight attendants “our flight attendants and airline workers have dealt with toxic air on board aircraft for years, risking serious health issues due to prolonged exposure. this bill would create better working conditions for everyone on board – along with the traveling public who also suffers when contaminated air seeps into the cabin,” said twu international president john samuelsen. the safe air on airplanes act will ensure a future where pilots, cabin crew, and airline passengers will not have to fear fume events. the act will: end the use of bleed air systems for ventilation in new commercial aircraft design. require filters on bleed air systems to effectively keep oil particulates out of flight deck and cabin air within seven years. totally phase out the use of bleed air systems for ventilation in existing commercial aircraft designs in the coming years. ### print email share tweet previous article next article