home news press releases august 08, 2025 frost scores victory as bipartisan committee action moves his transit bus affordability plan forward gao to conduct study central to frost’s bipartisan bill, paving the way to lower costs and improve public transit for millions washington, d.c. — u.s. representative maxwell alejandro frost (fl-10) today celebrated a major step forward for his bipartisan transit bus affordability act , as the house committee on transportation and infrastructure formally requested that the government accountability office (gao) conduct a study on the rising costs of transit bus manufacturing – a core provision of frost’s bill. the request , led by committee ranking member rick larsen (d-wa) and reps. frost and mike turner (r-oh), directs gao to analyze the key factors driving high bus procurement costs in the united states, compare them to other countries, and evaluate ways to reduce expenses and speed up delivery for local transit agencies. “this is a huge win for transit riders and for communities across the country,” said rep. frost. “when i introduced the transit bus affordability act, my goal was simple: get answers on why buses cost so much and figure out how to fix it. now, thanks to strong bipartisan support and the leadership of the transportation and infrastructure committee, the gao is moving forward with exactly the kind of study my bill calls for which means we’re one step closer to making buses more affordable and accessible for everyone.” millions of americans depend on public transit every day to get to work, school, medical appointments, and other essential destinations. however, transit agencies face exorbitant costs as a single transit bus can go for upwards of $1 million, with average prices hovering around $800,000, straining local budgets and limiting service improvements. thanks to ranking member larsen’s leadership alongside reps. frost and turner, the gao study will examine: the primary cost drivers in designing and building transit buses in the united states; how these costs compare internationally and across vehicle types; how manufacturing challenges have affected federally funded procurements; and steps stakeholders are taking to lower costs and shorten bus delivery times. rep. frost introduced the transit bus affordability act in june alongside rep. turner. the bipartisan legislation calls for a comprehensive gao study on bus procurement costs to inform future policy and help transit agencies make the most of their resources. ### print email share tweet previous article next article