husted statement on government reopening november 12, 2025 “after 43 days, it’s finally over. we got a vote to reopen the government. it was completely unnecessary that this happened.” washington – sen. jon husted (r-ohio) today released the following statement after the government reopened on november 12, 2025. view husted’s statement here . husted’s remarks: “after 43 days, it’s finally over. we got a vote to reopen the government. it was completely unnecessary that this happened. “i voted 16 times to reopen the government before, finally, eight democrats joined us, fighting back against chuck schumer and the radical left to say, ‘enough is enough.’ “and so together, those moderate democrats and all of us republicans joined together to reopen government—to end the suffering the american people were facing. “traffic delays from flights, snap benefits, paychecks going unmet, families not able to make ends meet—all so unnecessary after a 43-day temper tantrum by the democrats. “but i’m proud that as republicans, we pulled together. we are fighting for middle-class ohioans and americans. we’ve passed some of the most amazing tax reform plans in this country’s history. “we cut taxes for middle-income earners, eliminating taxes on tips, eliminating taxes on overtime, cutting taxes on social security, child tax credits to help working families. so, we have an agenda to help people earn more, keep more of what they earn, and cut prices by reducing fuel prices, by trying to attack the wasteful, wasteful, wasteful obamacare plan that’s driven up health care costs. and we know that millions and millions are being siphoned off in fraud. “so, there’s still work to do. but today, we can finally claim victory over the radical left who shut down the government for 43 days. i’m happy that we got over this. “and god bless america. let’s keep the momentum going.” through the appropriations package, president donald trump signed husted’s bipartisan bill, the streamlined market access and reform for therapeutics over-the-counter ( smart otc ) act, into law. this marks husted’s second bill to become law in the 10 months since he joined the senate. the smart otc act aims to remove unnecessary food and drug administration (fda) barriers, making more affordable over-the-counter medicines more accessible for taxpayers. the appropriations package includes the following for veterans and military infrastructure: funds veterans’ medical care and veterans’ benefits, including disability compensation programs, education benefits and rehabilitation and employment training. invests $19.7 billion in 300 military construction projects. this includes $30 million to begin construction of the human performance laboratory at wright-patterson air force base in dayton. prohibits the va from purchasing technology equipment manufactured by any chinese companies included on lists maintained by the pentagon or treasury, commerce or homeland security departments. for agriculture, this package: funds the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children (wic) and the supplemental nutrition assistance program (snap). this provision also reimburses snap and wic contingency reserves to account for spending during the government shutdown. provides $4.1 billion for rural infrastructure, housing and business development. this includes $1.7 billion for affordable housing rental assistance for low-income families and seniors in rural communities. husted secured $1 million for a rural facility in coshocton to promote outdoor recreation and improve the community’s and visitors’ health. husted also secured $999,000 for a lab modernization for holzer health system in gallipolis. provides $1.4 billion for the farm service agency to provide local support for our nation’s farmers and ranchers. ensures that the secretary of agriculture is included in the committee on foreign investment in the united states to protect american farmland from foreign adversaries. this package also supports the legislative branch: prevents any pay increases in fiscal year 2026 for members of congress. a freeze on members’ salaries has been in place since 2009. requires unspent funds from members of congress’ personal office budgets to be used for debt and deficit reduction. prohibits the purchase of drones manufactured in china and telecommunications equipment from huawei or zte corporation by the capitol police or the architect of the capitol. full text of the law is available here .