husted visits career tech students, educators, community development leaders and aerospace innovators in dayton november 17, 2025 dayton, ohio – sen. jon husted (r-ohio) spent friday meeting with students and educators from the miami valley career technology center (ctc). he also visited the hope center and joby aviation in dayton. husted visits joby aviation. the miami valley ctc serves 27 area high schools, offers more than 50 career tech programs for high school juniors and seniors and lifelong learning opportunities for students in adult education programs. “career tech schools like miami valley ctc prepare ohio’s workforce to earn well-paying salaries and fill in-demand jobs in our state. my feed act corrects outdated rules so students enrolled in snap can continue their education without jeopardizing their families’ benefits. i also supported the budget law to make career tech programs more affordable by expanding access to pell grants so that students can have job security and higher earning power,” said husted. in the senate, husted is working to expand affordable training and education. he introduced the bipartisan food eligibility for education and development (feed) act to update supplemental nutrition assistance program (snap) eligibility rules so students aged 18 to 21 enrolled in approved career and technical education (cte) programs can work part-time without their earnings counting against their or their families’ current snap benefits. he also recently introduced the decide act and the student debt alternative and cte awareness act to give students and families tools to make informed decisions about their futures and avoid crushing debt. the hope center focuses on providing resources to families and forging partnerships with organizations to offer job-training and other certificate programs. it has also helped develop some of the first new housing in northwest dayton in over a decade. “the hope center’s work to train and certify nursing aides and other important health care professionals to support dayton children and families has transformed the community by creating generational prosperity and opportunities. the ‘hope zone’ initiative supports more than 6,700 children across northwest dayton. i value the opportunity to visit the center and meet with leaders face-to-face,” said husted. in 2023, joby aviation invested at least $477.5 million in a 140-acre site at the dayton international airport to produce up to 500 all-electric vertical take-off and landing (evtol) aircraft per year. while serving as lieutenant governor, husted played a key role in attracting the aircraft manufacturer to the miami valley. the assembly-line manufacturing facility officially began production this week to build, test and fly these electric “air taxis,” which will be predominantly used for commercial passenger operations. “two years ago, joby aviation announced the construction of its first electric air taxi manufacturing facility in dayton, expanding its operations from california to ohio. this was the single largest aerospace investment in ohio history, helpingdayton solidify itself as the center of aviation innovation, from the wright brothers to wright-patterson air force base. i appreciated seeing made-in-ohio in action today at joby,” said husted.