husted bill protecting great lakes fishing passes senate november 24, 2025 “fishing is an important part of ohio’s culture and economy. we are blessed to be home to some of the world’s most beautiful lakes. rich ecology and proper wildlife management help keep our lakes healthy.” washington – sens. jon husted (r-ohio) and gary peters’ (d-mich.) bill, the great lakes fishery research reauthorization act, passed the senate by unanimous consent on nov. 19, 2025. the great lakes fishery research program expired at the end of september 2025. the great lakes fishery research reauthorization act would reauthorize the program for another five years through fy 2030. the research program provided the u.s. geological survey (usgs) great lakes science center with dedicated funding to conduct critical research with direct impact on the multi-billion-dollar commercial fishing industry in the great lakes. “ohio is home to some of the world’s most beautiful lakes, and fishing is important to our culture and economy. rich ecology and proper wildlife management help keep our lakes healthy. i’m proud the senate passed our great lakes fishery research reauthorization act to protect this program and the fisheries that remain critical to ohio,” said husted. “the great lakes science center helps protect the freshwater fisheries and habitats that are invaluable economic and ecological assets for michigan and the entire great lakes region. i’ll keep fighting to see this commonsense bill to support this essential center become law,” said peters. this bipartisan legislation passed the senate committee on environment and public works on oct. 29, 2025. senator husted is the only member of the committee on environment and public works representing a great lakes state. the committee is responsible for legislation and oversight of the natural and built environment and for studying matters concerning environmental protection and resource conservation and utilization. husted will continue to support economically growing and resilient communities across ohio. full text of the bill is available here .