joining us now is republican congressman from california, david valeday. he is a member of the house appropriations and budget committee. so he is been in the thick of the spending process throughout the course of this year. certainly, the deadline is approaching. sir, you are not considered a firebrand. you are not considered a show horse type on capitol hill. as you look at things right now behind the scenes, is there going to be a shutdown in 10 days? well, we really hope not. obviously, there is a lot of us who are working behind the scenes trying to find a way to make this get through. but as you all saw yesterday, there was about five members that voted against their party and sadly, we are getting closer and closer to that day. you know, to that point, you said something you quoted earlier this week where you were talking about the appropriations process, the committee and the work that they have done, and they basically made the point. they are not even willing to support a defense appropriations bill. that is supposed to be the easy one. to that point, did you ever think you would be in a place where republicans would not be able to coalesce behind a republican defense spending bill? no, this one is a totally new one for us and obviously it is frustrating for all of us. i think a lot of that frustration has filtered out. i know there was a lot behind closed doors, but certainly we have heard some publicly. your colleague, congressman mike lawler, has been very clear about his use, but i want to play, you heard him earlier. i want to play something else, he said. listen. this is not conservative republicanism. this is stupidity. the idea that we are going to shut the government down. when we do not control the senate, we do not control the white house. these people cannot define a win. they do not know how to take yes for an answer. it is a clown show. you keep running lunatics. you are going to be in this position. you are not known to be as fiery and how you describe your colleagues, but to that point, do you agree? is his assessment spot on in the reality right now? no, the reality is i think there are some members that probably will never ever get to a yes, and i think we went into that knowing that, but we have to go through the motions. we have to try to pass the bills. obviously they keep talking about continuing to move appropriations bills, but the same people who are saying that are the ones voting against the rule to bring the appropriations bills to the floor. if we cannot move appropriations bills to the floor, we have no other option. it is put in a position where as the day gets closer, we are going to have to start working across the aisle and find some folks who are willing to support any sort of funding mechanism so that we do not hurt our military. we do not hurt the american people. i think that is got a lot of us really, really frustrated right now. to that point, there is been some reporting, my colleagues, melonies and ona, and mono raju reporting that there have been discussions, some quiet discussions between republicans and democrats about whether or not to coalesce or if there is a pathway to coalesce now before going through the six or seven more motions you would need to go through to get to that point. are you a part of those conversations? do you think something like that would work? i do believe it could work. it just depends on what is on the table, what is being asked for. obviously we are at $33 trillion in debt right now, and spending is a big deal for a lot of us at home, and it is something that we want to try to be as responsible as we possibly can on. but again, when you cannot get those five remaining five out of the 217 that voted yesterday, five of them voted against us, voted against our military, and it is kind of left us in a position where we are going to have to start negotiating a little earlier with the other side than we expected. are you worried, are you concerned about speaker mccarthy's job at this point? you supported him? no, obviously i am a big supporter of the speaker. i think he is done a great job. i do not believe anyone could have done better. the first thing an ask of him is something that is just not attainable, and no matter what he does, there is going to be criticism. the problem is, is there is such a small majority that there are in a position where they can play the types of games that you see yesterday. dropping pieces of legislation on the bathroom countertop, these are just childish games. the reality is we have to govern, and for republicans to be successful and get our priorities forward, funding our military, making sure that we are responsible, taxpayer dollars, making sure that we do everything we need to do, that we promise that our constituent we would do, we have to pass bills. and just voting no is not how you do that. one more before i let you go. you have long been a frontline member. you have won races, you have lost races. all of your races have been tough with a lot of spending on both sides from outside, and on your campaign. you have supported the impeachment inquiry, the launch of the impeachment inquiry. are you concerned about what that will do to you politically given kind of the race? the races you tend to end up in. so no matter what i do, i am going to get attacked. so worrying about what attacks are going to come from the left or the right. the reality is i cannot focus on that. the races that i have run and won and lost, obviously they are frustrating, they are hard to go through. but as i have proven before, i am not afraid to make tough decisions even when it is against my own party. but obviously what we see going on in the white house and some of the situations with this son are extremely concerning. and i think the reality is i think america have to have trust in their elected leadership. and this might be part of the process to getting to that point where we can actually trust our leadership. and right now joe biden is the one under the spotlight and i think it is deservedly so. i think you guys are under the spotlight too, at least for the next 10 days as well. congressman dave valdeau, we appreciate your time sir. thank you. anytime. thanks for having me.