so i can stand for a slide. all right, great. so first of all, i want to touch about representative mccarthy's new position. what do you think about that? well, obviously, i think it is a good thing for california. when you have someone in that position, i think a lot of people do not appreciate the importance of that position when it comes to negotiating and things that get passed through congress. when we negotiate with the senate, the majority leader is there at the table, obviously with the speaker, also the setting the calendar, making sure that items come to the floor and making sure that when they come to the floor, most people agree to them. and having a voice from the valley here, like, kind of mccarthy in that position is a good thing for us. a lot of people said that the recent air cantor lost that bid was he did not have a strong opinion on immigration reform and it was just back and forth. do you think that mccarthy will be doing better in that point? well, as far as specific issues, i think that air cantor lost just for that reason. i think there is a lot that goes into a person losing or winning a race to try to pinpoint it on any specific issue, i think, is wrong. as far as kevin's been pretty clear on some of his positions, and we are going to continue to work with him to make sure that whatever is done is done to the benefit of the valley. and on that topic, immigration reform president, while i just spoke about that, he is saying that the house of representatives, they are not doing enough and that he is going to take some executive action. what do you think about that? well, obviously, executive action is bad for a lot of reasons. the purpose of the legislative branch is to openly debate a piece of legislation. and if it is openly debated, it allows the input of the communities. there is 435 members of congress. and when we go through the process of debating this, having a member of congress in the debate and having that voice, just like myself, i had a community coffee here last week. i have tele-town halls. people have access to me, but they do not have access to the president. so one person sitting in one house passing a piece of legislation is dangerous because it is not going to cover all aspects that need to be covered. so it is a really dangerous place to go. and that is why we have the legislative branch, is to make sure that people are represented and laws are passed that are beneficial to all. and if the president is going to decide to take this route, i think that is going to be hurtful to everybody. i do wish the house would act and start to pass legislation. there has been some that have passed, but there needs to be more. and so i have obviously been advocate for immigration reform. i am going to continue to be an advocate for it, and i am going to continue to work to make sure that we carry out our responsibilities as a legislative branch and pass these bills. how are there any talks between you and the gang of aid? the senate has already passed it, but is there any? you know, there was a gang of hate in the house, and i did work closely with a few of them before that gang of aid broke up. as far as new people out there pushing, we are not even really new people. a lot of the same people are still the same people who are acting on immigration reform. there is a lot of talk, there is a lot of push to make sure some legislation comes forward. the majority later, and the old majority later, eric canter, and the transition out of kevin mccarthy has slowed down some progress right now in the house, but i expect us to still continue to push once things get settled. what have you heard from your constituents regarding that? you know, for the most part, my constituents are very supportive of seeing something done. i think they want it to be fair. they want it to be respectful of those who have tried to follow the laws, but they also want to make sure that we resolve this in a way that does not put us in the same position 20 years from now. i mean, you cannot pass amnesty. you have to pass a program that helps future flow, resolves the situation we have today, and also protects american workers at the same time. and so that is why it has to be something that covers all those aspects, and that is why i have been supportive of the comprehensive. and what do you think about the humanitarian crisis that has been focused now? well, the humanitarian crisis that is going on along the border is obviously something very sad that has to be addressed. and that is something that is obviously come around because of a lot of the actions that the president has taken, but at the same time, the lack of direction that congress has taken as well. we have to make sure that we have clear defined laws that work and that prevent things like this from being seen as an option. and i think that if we did take an active role in fixing the immigration system in general, it would have a much larger role in fixing that issue as well. it is something that has to be resolved, obviously. and with a bunch of kids showing up at our border, it is a very sad situation. but we are going to do our best to try to resolve that in a humanitarian way. president moan did mention just now part of the reason that has to represent its hominable to pass this is because there is that division between the tea party members and moderate conservatives. do you agree with that? you know, one of the original gang of eight is role labrador, who actually ran from a majority leader with this port of that wing of the party. and there are aspects across the board of people who understand the immigration system is broken and want to fix it. so i think the president is exaggerating when it comes to that. and as far as the water crisis here in california, what have been some of the steps that you guys have been looking at? well, obviously, hr 3964 was passed off the floor back in february. the senate passed their bill a couple weeks ago. and now we have been talking with the senate to come up with a compromise that works to help solve this problem. the talks are actually ongoing. we have been meeting with the senate our senate counterparts. and we are doing our best to come up with a solution. as far as short-term solutions, if our bill had been passed back in february and signed into law right away, we would not be in the mess we are in today. the best we can hope for now is preventing next year from being this bad. and as far as elections, so you are running up against the main inventory, what are you looking forward to in that election? well, we are going to continue to work hard and do everything we are supposed to be doing. i have been representing the district now for about a year and a half. and i think i have done a really good job of reaching out and talking to voters and representing them the way they would like to see me do so. and the numbers that happened in the primary the early, i think, are pretty evident to that. but we are going to continue to work really hard. we are going to continue to have our community coffees, our tele-town halls, and it just our outreach program in general to stay in contact with the community so that they know who i am and what i am doing for them. and we will hope for the best. all right. do you have anything to help?