hello, and we are back with off the press. this is james berger with the bakersfield, california. i am joined today, as always, by nicole parach and russ johnson, who we have introduced in the past, so i will zip right along to those who might... wonderful co-hosts. just ask your questions. i have been dying to ask the congressmen. and of course, our guest, david valdeau. so, as folks who have listened on the show, but no, i love the 21st congressional district. i love covering it. my job is to report on it. it is a fantastic, diverse... because it is interesting. it is this geographical district that stretches all of the valley, picks up all these rural, small communities. it is very diverse, very different... always lots of drama with the boat. always lots of drama. it was jerry mandered, so it could be a democrat seat. but it was done in accordance with the voting rights act. was not the chairman a big democrat donor they found out after all that was said and done? all of those things are... oh, let the games begin. but you have won it twice, so you have not really been hurt by that. and that is why it is interesting. because these, you know, even election night, the republican always starts at the top. this happened with costa and similar district that happened with vidak. they always start way ahead. and then the votes come in and it changes as the different communities and different groups of people come in. and it is very interesting to watch and figure out where that is going to end up. and, you know, it is very diverse. the district is very diverse. there is a lot of latinos, but there are points of view on politics and faith. and all those things are very diverse as well. and so you have... i think almost a microcosm of the country, really, in what the country might become. and so i find it deeply intriguing. and so you represent this. you have won twice. very handily, both times, once against a weak opponent. another time against a very strong opponent. last with amanda rattria. and as you mentioned, vice president joe biden came to cal state bakersfield and campaigned against you. and you still won with 58% of the vote i believe. and so this year's a little bit different. the primary was a little bit different. you had two aggressive democratic campaign running. your california is amila huerta, son of dolores huerta, a very prominent in the labor community and civil rights community here and the latino community. and so you are facing a campaign against that. you have got about 55% of the vote still win. but rattria was able to reduce your vote last time by about 5%. so you could between the primary and the general. and so it could go either way, potentially. what are you doing to make sure that it does not happen that way? so you are right. the primary is much tighter this time than it had been in the past. but there are some differences this year versus the past few years. this is the year i did the least in the primary. and this is also the year that had the most. i mean, california actually mattered in a presidential race. and if you look at the democrat turnout versus the republican turnout, republicans turned out just 4,000 people above normal. and i think democrats turned out about 20,000 above normal. so the bernie sanders hillary clinton played a huge role in drawing people out. but when you look at the numbers, two 60% of the turnout was democrat and i still won. so that is a positive sign. our goal now is to try to get as many republicans out as possible to make sure they show up. my district is 31% republican and almost 50% democrat. so it is a tough, tough hill to climb. but we have not changed anything. we just, we did not spend as much in our primary as we have in the past. and that focus on that was to make sure that we had the resources necessary for the general. because we obviously know the general is going to be a much tougher situation. right. and so obviously, you know, you are in combat that helps you a little bit with voters across all spectrums. so that there is a little bit of help you have done well in the past with democrats and the past two elections as well. what do you think the primary, you mentioned that again, that trump and hillary and clinton are hillary and messing it up, that bernie and clinton had a strong race and that propelled voters out? do you think that there is going to be that level of interest in the presidential race in november? it is really hard to say today what it is going to look like in november. but right now, it does not look like it is going to be that competitive of a race. and especially being here on the coast, i remember in 2012, leaving bakersfield and driving up to hanford. and before i got to hanford, and before i showed up to my event at eight of the clock, they had already announced that romney had lost. and so things like that do have an impact. and you start to see some of the polling numbers, you start to see some of the things going on. it will have an impact. i do not know how it will impact all of our races because if everybody on both sides of size is not to turn out, i mean, that could be, and then it turns it into a real race. but republicans tend to show up. and so even having a 1617 point disadvantage because republicans typically show up and vote, it does give you that little bit of an edge. it does. and it is made the difference in the race in the past two elections. the question is, will obviously, will the republican presidential candidate drive people to the ballot? you know, most of your, most of your constituency is latino. and, you know, though, as nicole has said, the trump is trying to soften his, his verbiage towards minorities and latinos. but he said some pretty blunt and aggressive things about the nature of those people who you represent. no, i know. and that is something that we have obviously been very aware of. and the thing that in the district, i ran in 2012, and obama won the district pretty handily. and we actually outperformed obama in the district. so we have always been able to separate ourselves. we separate ourselves from, and ran our own independent race from, from, we did it with romney. and we continue to work and do our job in the valley and make sure we touch voters as much as possible and talk to them. so that they know that i am who i am. and whatever they decide to do atop the ticket is their business. but i have done my best to represent them. and i hope they remember that on, on election day. and my goal is to make sure they do. so i worked on a lot of that same district when it was different a little bit. in 2004, the time i worked for a state senator who was running for congress, trained to take out jim costa. and at that time, i got an education on how much the republican national congressional committee, and then you got the democrat, california, or the... the detroit national committee, or the detroit national committee. i forget what all the c's are for. but ultimately, so much of a decision happens back in dc. and then all of a sudden, the floodgates open, money comes in, more tv ads, more mailers, all these different things. are you seeing anything different, dis-election, the last election on that front? and then also, are you getting any real access to some really unique new technology that you are using out in the field when you are going door to door, you are identifying voters? is there anything new, technology-wise, you are deploying? yeah, there is always... we started using some of the electronic technology last time, but we are probably going to use more of this time, ipads and iphones. but we have done that in the past. but as far as the d-triple c, the difference between d-triple c and nrcc over the last few years, two years ago, they were very active. and even in 12, they did try to get blong zhang through over john hernandez. and they actually spent quite a bit of money, but they were not able to get him across. this has been the least active the d-triple c has ever been in my race. yeah, and folks are talking about that. and less than 90 days, is your opponent going to be able to put the team together? less than 80 days from last week. it was 77, because it is 76 today. i am counting down the days. you are counting down, like we said, the calendar too. so can he put that campaign together? and then one question i always like to ask is, you know, how important vote by mail will be? because the things that you talked about, you know, the election starts actually, you know, on facebook, in a month, folks will start voting. so are you also going to add on, i know you do a great vbm campaign, continuing to do what you did best. and then just depending on you being out there, your staff being out there. and especially a more of a presence on partial to kern county. more of a president's presence in kern county, because your opponent is from kern county. so, yes, we are doing everything. the one thing we are doing different this year that we had not done in the past is we never stopped our campaign wing, never stopped. so after the election was over, we continued to call and reach out and talk to voters throughout the whole process. so we did do that differently this year, so we have id voters a little bit better. during the primary, we just were not as active. we were not chasing, we were not calling as much, and we were not walking. was that because you were just waiting to see if it was par, you really did not, to be honest, have to put in that many resources versus aware that maybe some republican resources were used to bump par up. so that is why you kind of stayed behind or did not do as much in the primary. we did not do as much, we felt pretty comfortable we were going to make it through. and we wanted to save resources. no, not you, that you were just watching us see who would make it through. we, me, i was also looking to make sure we save resources for the general because that is where the fight's going to be. right. and the one thing that is happened nationally that a lot of folks will seem that do not realize is there are 435 seats in congress. and to assume that the democrat party, the republican party has the resources to just go dump all these different resources, all these races. california is not a state that can swing. so the members of congress who are in tough districts in colorado, florida, virginia, and those types of states are the ones that they are going to really fill a lot of heat. because the presidential races will just be beating down their districts, trying to get voters out. and then they are going to be somewhere in the mix trying to stay, keep their heads above water and not get drowned out in that noise. and our situation is a little bit different. and you have the finances. you are very healthy with your fundraising. you raise a lot of good money. and so that is going to help you also as you move the campaign in less than 70 days, right? we have a lot of supporters in the district. and so i guess the question for me is that we see the same patterns again. do you think there is going to be a different election that you have seen? because there is some things that can make it different to this year. yes. you talked about the john hernandez race. and that one, you outperformed him in the district the first time you ran. but he spent less than $100,000. he is spent nothing. and so you know, with the resources you had, you are going to stomp him. and then last race, it was $1.7 million that she raised. and then vice president and then celebrities like eva longoria campaign. and then hillary clinton raised her money for her in san francisco. so yeah, we have had some, we have had some interesting races. if your question is, is am i nervous? and am i running a race because i know i am in a real race? yes. we are always nervous. we always run like we are behind. and we always focus on doing our job right at this point on the campaign wing. we are not taking anything for granted. right. so we are running a full race. i think that is a healthy attitude because nicole and i have been through probably more campaigns than we carry the count. they are easy though. how races? if you are not running from behind, you are going to lose. and i think that is a healthy perspective to have. well, and nicole knows it. nicole has been through some of these exact kinds of races twice. but you have kevin mccarthy on your side. that is always a good thing, especially the resources he can make. that is a good thing. yeah. he plays a good basketball. right. oh, does he? i do not think he invited me to play on the congressional basketball team this year, or this past year because he thinks i am better than him. oh, well, there we go. hopefully he is listening. because i am still offended i did not get asked back. all right. well, that is it for today. thank you so much for coming in. it was great talking to you and learning a little more about your family and your background and what it means to you to be in congress and talk to us about the race, which is going to be fantastic. you are not exciting. i love this season. that is great. and thank you to russ and nicole. and tune in next week to after press. we will have corey woodward for judge candidate on tuesday. and jim bloomquist, i believe her name is in the for a city school district seat on thursday. so again, after press, we will catch you next week. and thank you so much for being here. thank you.