wanted to first of all get your reaction to state of the union address. to state of the union address time. i think overall is really good. i was obviously a little surprised by the number of guests that he had that he brought up during the speech. i thought it was a pleasant surprise. there is a lot of heartwarming stories there and i mean it was pretty cool. as far as the policy side, i think the president did a really good job laying out a lot of things that the american people wanted to talk about. there is the issue and there are a lot of folks that brought guests to the gallery. dreamers for example, and he touched on the immigration issue, the 1.8 million that he is willing to work with to get path to citizenship. but he also wants his voter security in return. i think that was the president showing that he wanted to work across the island and come to a compromise and get some real solutions. the pharmaceutical side of it, pain capable or helping terminally ill people have the right to try medications. i think that was something that was nice to hear as well. i think that will affect real people. i have had family members on my own that i have seen struggle and suffer and to have the opportunity to try some new medicines that could potentially save their lives or at least make them more comfortable. it is something that we should look into. loing the price of pharmaceutical, i think is a great thing. california specifics since we have ab 109 and other things have let so many of our inmates out onto the streets. we find in some sort of second chance program allowing them the opportunity to go out and get jobs. i think it is something that could be really positive for the economy and obviously for the safety of our families at home. there are some good stuff in there. you brought up dreamers and kind of came to mind what i was listening to that was. we started talking to that one couple weeks ago. we started talking about some of that. a couple weeks ago we talked about to figure out now up to 1.8 million. how did that happen? now up to 1.8 million. how did that happen? well, so if you understand the daca dreamer and all the different piece of legislation, it all plays a role in when they came to the us and at what age they were. at what age they were before 18, whatever. all those things play a role in how that number is calculated. the president came to a number of 1.8 million so he obviously changed the calculation a little bit. he probably changed some dates and moved it made a little bit wider. but yeah, the daca component of it, the one that president obama pushed, was about 700,000 maybe 800,000. dreamer bills and a few other piece of legislation here in the house, pushed a little bit higher numbers. but 1.8 million was a much higher number than i had heard in the past. i know you are attending d'alene toward voting. i know you are attending d'alene in a favor of such a program. what you do that without a wall? what you do that without a wall? well, we want to make sure that the border security component is. i know that the wall is kind of the buzzword, but even meeting with secretary nilsen, secretary of homeland security, and the white house, a little bit about this issue. it is not so much about building a wall, see, designing, see, but it is about making sure our border is secure in whatever way a shape or fashion that means. there are going to be parts of the area that they think the wall is the most obvious choice and there is going to be other areas where it will be technology and some sort of smart technology that can make sure it is secure. i think all those things play a role. i think there is also a place for changing the way that we treat people who come up to the border and especially when the cartels are training people on what words to use and how to talk to the border agents so that they can be granted asylum or other special treatment and get right on through. that is an issue that we have got right now and there is no border or no type of security that will stop it when they are walking up and using our own laws against us. those are all things that need to be looked at and part of this compromise. another thing that president mentioned tonight was the infrastructure of the united states and the infrastructure of the united states. from where it is today and he is willing to spend $1.5 trillion to do that. how do you justify that with a $20 trillion debt? how do you justify that with a $20 trillion debt? so that is going to be the hard part and that is one that when you mentioned the 1.5 i kind of smiled and looked to a fellow appropriator friend of mine said next to me and i thought that is a lot of money we are going to have to do some digging for this. it is a pretty high mark but obviously we want to do everything we can. our infrastructure is crumbling. we have a lot of need around the country. obviously roads, freeways and especially for the central valley water infrastructure is so important. if there is any opportunity or any place, any rock we can dig under for a little extra money i think it is well worth and it is something we should strive for. congressman, what was your reaction of... of course, it might have been difficult for you to see but it is a reaction of democrats tonight. when the pressure starts going through some of these numbers like the unemployment figures of the black connolly, the hispanic unemployment historically low, the first talking about how people for a low case have been pumped up lately. businesses, reinvesting in america, what do you think of people like chuck schumer and nancy pelosi, who said people are handsome? it was a little frustrating to see and i did try to watch on the other side on specific topics. i was a little surprised when the 1.8 million on immigration they did not stand up and applaud that. they all jumped up when they talked about lower in the cost of pharmaceuticals. so there was a few times they jumped up but i would say more often than not i was disappointed to see that they did not at least applaud the things they agreed with. i sat through four state of the unions with president obama and when i agreed with them i stood up and i clapped. i thought it was the right thing to do because it shows support and it shows unity on issues that we agree on and it helps build a real path forward on getting things done for the american people. so yeah, i was disappointed. i would hope that they do not continue those actions that we have the opportunity to really accomplish some things for their constituents in mind. it looked like the president was trying to break across the aisle and break and take them down. and those are the other side. do you think he did that? i do not see anything different. i think he did that. i think he did that. i think he did that. i think he did anything differently. i think in the days going forward. well i think on some of the topics he did a very good job. i mean i know that they probably were not thrilled with the guentanamo bay stuff but looking for a real solution when it comes to helping people who have served their time in prison, looking for a solution on immigration, looking for a solution on infrastructure. those are all things that democrats typically agree with. when you get into the pharmaceutical industry and the cost of pharmaceuticals and medications for our constituents, that is something that they did a plug. but there are a few things there that i thought they should have really been happy with and really applaud a little bit harder. and yeah, frustrated but it does not mean that we have got to sit back and complain. our focus now needs to be on really trying to build some alliances and try to move forward and get some of these good ideas done. congressman valdea, thank you for spending time with us today. congressman valdea, thank you for spending time with us tonight. thanks for having me. i appreciate it.