three times, cabinet officials, because they will not forget the once forgotten, and i am grateful that donald trump knows and remembers the heartland of america. i have had the opportunity to work with several governors, republican governors. you know, i was a young chairman. i appreciated the little history lesson that josh gave us. you know, in 1992, i was a 30-year-old chairman of the north dakota republican party. i see some of john olson. i just saw john here a little bit ago. i think back to those days, when democrats had the governorship for 28 out of the previous 32 years in this state, they had a majority in the legislature. they had every office in the capitol except for three, and they had an all democratic congressional delegation. and i was a young chairman, a long-came-edge shaker. and he proved by virtue of an optimistic personality, high energy, and a new idea that we did not have to always be a democratically-run state. well tonight, tonight, 100%, 100%. and so, to those whose shoulders i stand on, thank you. to the legislators, the governors, my statewide colleagues, to all of those who want tonight, to thank you all as well. and i look forward to serving with you. and finally and ultimately, from the bottom of my heart, thank you to the people of north dakota. you have been a shining example to the people of this country. when i speak in washington, i often quote north dakota's favorite son, eric severide, when he was a famous newsman. he once said that north dakota is the rectangular blank spot on the nation's consciousness. i am here to tell you, north dakota is a rectangular stage under the nation's spotlight, because you have proven what can be done with hard work, and ingenuity, and innovation. and tonight, i want you to know that you have given me the honor of my life when you have let me serve in various capacities. it is been one of the greatest pleasures to serve the last six years as north dakota's only member of the people's house. and north dakota has taught me the value of hard work and common sense. you have helped me be the most accessible member of congress that i can be. and i want to make this promise to all of you, whether you voted for me or you did not. as your senator, i will continue to be the most accessible member of the united states congress through every means possible, because without you i am nothing, and with you i am everything. thank you. god bless you. god bless north dakota. and i want you to know that you have given me the honor of my life when you have let me serve in various capacities. and i want to make this promise to all of you, whether you voted for me or you did not just do it, but i am sure you are going to be the most accessible member of congress. it is time to you again