press releases hagerty applauds air force selection of mcghee tyson air national guard base for kc-46 pegasus november 19, 2025 | the highly decorated 134th air refueling wing will now enhance its capabilities with the air force’s next-generation tanker washington—today, united states senator bill hagerty (r-tn) released the following statement on the department of the air force’s decision... icymi—hagerty joins the sunday briefing on fox news to discuss president trump’s actions against the venezuelan regime, drug cartel threats, china’s ai-driven cyberattacks november 17, 2025 | nashville, tenn.—on sunday, united states senator bill hagerty (r-tn), a member of the senate foreign relations and appropriations committees and former u.s. ambassador to japan, joined the sunday briefing on fox news to discuss president donald trump’s military... hagerty, treasury secretary scott bessent champion legislation to make main street banks great again november 3, 2025 | washington—on october 30, united states senator bill hagerty (r-tn) and united states secretary of the treasury scott bessent penned a joint letter to the wall street journal’s editorial board. in the letter, entitled “how to make main street banks great again,” the... hagerty, alsobrooks introduce main street depositor protection act november 3, 2025 | bipartisan bill would expand deposit insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts washington—yesterday, united states senators bill hagerty (r-tn) and angela alsobrooks (d-md), members of the senate banking committee, introduced the bipartisan main... icymi—hagerty joins maria bartiromo’s wall street on fox businessto discuss trump’s china trade talks, canada’s unfair trade practices, the supreme court tariff case, schumer’s shutdown politics, doj spying on senators october 28, 2025 | washington—on friday, united states senator bill hagerty (r-tn), a member of the senate foreign relations and appropriations committees and former u.s. ambassador to japan, joined maria bartiromo’s wall street on fox business to discuss president donald trump’s china... page 1 of 236 1 2 3 4 5 ... 10 20 30 ... » last »