please welcome to the stage, state senate candidate, and marie mitchell. hello bristol. now we are going to take a little bit of a poll and see how many of you have, if you are from ben salem, would you put your hands up? if you are from pendel, umville, upper southampton, lower southampton, northampton, holland, wrightstown, warrington, warwick, jameson, warrington. all right, well, if you just said yes to any one of those, i am running to be your next pennsylvania state senator. and if you came from any of the other districts, i am thrilled that you are here and i am very happy to meet you because you have an opportunity to vote for another wonderful state senator, senator steve sanisero. so i want to talk for a minute before we are all going to talk about john federman and chazelle, because you know, fans. but i really want to take a minute to talk to you about what they call the downbelly races. so we all know we are focusing on the governor this year and the us senate because we need john in d.c. but you know what we need in harrisburg? give that woman the prize because that is what we need. and i would like to know if any of you know who your state rep is. i hope the answer is yes. and if it is not a democrat that you are voting for the other person. so we have an opportunity to flip a seat in ben salem for laurie smith. she is a phenomenal school teacher and we need her in harrisburg. we have an opportunity to flip a seat in the 178th. ilya brahmian, a jewish russian immigrant running against a book banner pro-life republican woman. we need ilya. we are also running mark maffa and brian monroe. brian is a retired, is a retired police officer and retired navy and he will be phenomenal. so we have some incredible downbelly races and my name is ann marie mitchell and i am the only pro-choice candidate on the ballot for state senate. my opponent, let us name some names. my opponent, state representative frank ferry, voted. i appreciate that but here why? he voted for that constitutional amendment that will strip away the right to abortion care in pennsylvania. and why are we talking about that? it is not like it is an everyday occurrence for the people in this crowd. we are talking about it because it is our bodies, our rights, our families. these are private decisions that need to be made by the people involved and not some republican politician. and i also see there are some teachers in the crowd including some of my committee people. and i want to point out that my opponent spent 10 plus years slowly defending the public education. so one vote, one year for an increased budget does not take away 10 plus years of stripping away funding starting with when corporate was in office. we have a lot of work to do and the reason we have a lot of work to do is because nobody talks about these races as much as they talk about what is going on in dc. every day our lives are determined by what is going on in harrisburg. and is that covered on the front page of the inquire? no. so we need to make some changes because i am running so that we all can continue to stay in pennsylvania and have the rights we had last year. and we gain more rights. we have health care, including health care for veterans who are not supported. we have salaries going up because my opponent voted for his own little increase for his raise. but that whole group of republicans have held back minimum wage in pennsylvania for well over a decade. if they had gotten increases, we all would be a heck of a lot less worried about inflation. but in pennsylvania our wages do not match new jersey. but we paid the same damn price for a pair of sneakers. so let us go do something about that. anyway, i really appreciate the opportunity to meet with all of you. i am very excited for this crowd. this is tremendous. and please remember, talk to your friends. it is not just the federal government. we need to flip harrisburg. and you can do it. thank you. ladies and gentlemen, please welcome to the stage, state rep tina davis. oh wow, i have to take a picture of this. this is awesome. can i? can i? so welcome everybody to bristol barrow. i am happy to report that this is part of my new district. i just love bristol barrow. the people here are so awesome and genuine and nice. and i want to, one of the gentlemen here from bristol barrow is the council president, greg pesna. please stand up. he is not running for president. but i just want to, he did a lot of work here. and i want to also thank all the all the advanced team, the police department, everybody who was here for everybody. so i am going to tell you a little bit about jim morgan. i am jim morgan. there he is. i had jim morgan on my, my head. i wanted to tell you a little bit about john fetterman because a lot of you will only see what you see on tv and hear on tv. john mirrors many of our lives. his life had his share of adversities. he chose to live in braddock when he knew how severely marginalized it was. the town was economically depressed and people lost their jobs and their hope. yet john had the courage to run for office there. and by the way, you only won by one vote. so that is how important it is to get out and vote. braddock needed a rebirth and every person living there was important to john. he supports the values that all of us as a community do. he understands that we are all struggling right now. you can hear it in my voice. i know what it is like to not have ends meet. i know what you guys are going through and so does john. he has always fought for sustainable jobs and a living wage for everybody. john knows that many of you must decide between buying food or paying for your prescriptions. and he has made a commitment to challenge the greedy corporations who were abusing all of us by charging astronomical prices. john supports a woman's right to healthcare decisions. and he challenges every day the structural inequities that impede people, all of you, of trying to get good healthcare. whether you are a minority, all of us have problems getting health here. so i just want to say one last thing about john. he suffered a stroke this year. and a lot of people would have walked away from all of that. but john did not. he had perseverance. he had humility to be able to face all of you after going through those health issues. and instead of insulting him, we should applaud him because his character came through. thank you. ladies and gentlemen, please welcome to the stage, secretary patrick murphy. all right, all right. what is up, bristol? that is what i am talking about. it is good to see my phone veterans here in the crowd. i love that. i missed you too, but do not worry. i have the right down the street here in bristol. this is my hometown. so, hey, i am patrick murphy. for those who are from these decadaboods here in lower bucks county, it is typically bristol. 16 years ago, at age 33, you elected me here, us congressman. and i will never forget that. so, thank you. and then i have the opportunity to serve as the acting secretary of the army on the president obama and the pentagon. thank you. i want to highlight some of the things that emory mitchell and tina davis just said. tina davis is one of us, number one. as you know, i live right on the street here in rackliffe. her kids live right here in rackliffe as well. she is one of us. but her and emory mitchell, in the whole ticket, they represent our values. and as emory said, it is not just about who we send to washington, but it is who we send to harrisburg and who elects us here. i know we have some elected officials here, councilman, mayor. i just want to say thank you for being here. this election is incredibly important, as you know. and we are all so blessed. you know, when you elected me, when i came back from my rack at age 33, i was a blue car kid that went to bucks county community college. and i went on to teach at west point, but i did not go to west point. we have an incredible candidate in our ticket in ashley e has who actually graduated from west point. ashley e has actually went to combat as an apache helicopter pilot. she is a phenomenal leader. and by the way, she has more experience than i do because i was 33 and she is 34. but john federman, josh piro, tina davis, ashley e has, these, that is the dream ticket. that is who we have to support. that is who we have to defend when we have some folks trying to protest. it is not says privilege more than a protest on a boat, by the way, for the record. i am going to call my buddy with a jet ski. you are going to take care of that in a second. well, that is fun. and let us not forget. go birds. go john federman. thank you. ladies and gentlemen, we are going to take a quick break and come right back to the programming shortly. thank you. what an incredible crowd we have here today. my name is ashley e has and i am running for congress against the anti-choice republican brian fitzpatrick. i am a combat veteran. i sacrificed years of my life fighting to protect our country overseas. and i am running for congress because mr. fitzpatrick has failed us. i grew up in a single mom household for much my childhood. and we really struggled. we moved around constantly trying to stay one step ahead of a viction notices or trying to figure out where a next meal would come from. and so at 17 i joined the army with an age waiver in hand because like so many of the people in our country that was my pathway forward to stability and opportunity. i was really fortunate to go to west point and become an attack helicopter pilot and have the honor of commanding soldiers overseas and here at home. i am a lifelong public servant while brian is just another politician. he has willingly sold out every woman and girl in our community by voting against the right to choose twice. that is the right reaction to that. he is also sold out every american but especially every veteran and every police officer who has died to defend our country. by voting against any investigation to what happened on january 6th. and he is sold out every working family in our community who is struggling so much to make ends meet. he has been in office since 2016 and the only thing he is managed to do is vote against lowering gas prices, lowering child care prices and lowering the cost of prescription drugs. we are not need better off for him. we are not. he is so out of touch with what this community needs. and to be honest, as a combat veteran who is fought overseas and was willing to die to defend our country. i will not stand to be made a second class citizen in that very country i wanted to protect. and you know else i will not stand bristol watching some tv quack doctor try to con his way into the senate. i will tell you brian seems to like him. he went on fox news and stumped for the guy he endorsed him on national tv. and this was even after dr. oz failed to condemn senator toome for using veterans as political bargaining chips and held up the passage of the packdact which granted my brothers and sisters and arms critical health care as they were exposed to burn pits down range. as someone who joined the military before i was old enough to vote i value leaders who will fight for and protect veterans and that is john federman. he will do it by making sure the va provides necessary health care through more funding but also greater access to mental health resources for those suffering for ptsd. but he will also quite frankly just make sure the washington elite stops selling out our veterans. when i needed her most when i was a young kid just trying to hope for a better future my country saved me. and as i stand here before you all as your democratic nominee for u.s. congress i am running to save her when she needs us most. and so it is my absolute pleasure to introduce someone else to you who has put service community building at the forefront. it is the first thing she thinks about when she wakes up and the last thing she thinks about before she goes to bed. as everyone in this crowd knows she is exactly who we need looking after john and the rest of us in washington. my friend the second lady of pennsylvania, juzelle federman. i will not give up, no i will not give in till i reach the end and i will start again. no i will not leave, i want to try everything i want i try even though i could fail. hey box county. how is everyone today? thank you for being here this is a beautiful weekend you could be doing anything i know getting places is hard and there is kids and pets and football. and you are here and i know that is a big sacrifice so thank you we do not take this for granted it means the world. for those of you who do not know me my name is juzelle by hector federman. i am a former dreamer i am an advocate and the second lady of pennsylvania or as i prefer the slop. people always feel bad calling me that but i invented it. you can do it it is funny. and as many of you know john is not your typical politician in the best way possible. he is honest he is kind he is true to his word and no matter where we go he is always still that small town mayor who knows that families are struggling. and he understands that our basic rights including abortion rights are on the line. he is the same small town mayor who cares deeply about the people he represents and who shows up and does the job. he is the same lieutenant governor who traveled to all 67 counties multiple times to hear from folks like you. and he is still that same leader who will always stand for what is right even when he is standing alone. now he is running for senate to take his fight to dc. for many americans health care is on the line. support for our veterans are on the line. kindness and decency are on the line. even puppies are on the line. and lastly our democracy. so we can dislike politics as much as i do. i do not like it very much. but we have to take those feelings straight to the polls. sitting this one out is not an option. dr. oz and other republicans are running and hate division and lies. they are running to take our rights and they are calling it patriotism. but this november we have the power to reject the vice of politics. we have the power to elect someone who is different in the best way. someone who was made so big so that his whole heart could fit in there. and someone who will fight for you like he fights for his neighbor like he fights for his family like he is fought for his life. and alongside john you have the power to bring this entire slate of amazing candidates along with him. so now without further ado. i am proud to introduce to you my husband, your lieutenant governor, a stroke survivor and our next senator from the great commonwealth. you you you boxed oh my gosh. you know you know i cannot i cannot swear we were planning this but i just realized when we pulled in that over there that is new jersey. the land of eyes. pennsylvania right pennsylvania. dr. oz he thinks king prussia is european royalty. so. so snl last night on tv. they talked about oz giving a speech in front of hitler's car. you literally cannot make that up. i figure between killing 300 puppies. he is trying to really impress the villain personality. his best idea though that has been since crudite. he had a high high bar to top that one. i was thinking about when was the first time i have ever heard the word crudite. i know i never have i never had. in fact you know like the team after that video went viral. the team sent me the video and i was like what what is that crudite. i did not understand what it meant because i thought it was because i had the stroke. so really as you know i had that stroke. and you know after i was able to survive. i was able to save my life. and i could have had been at the wrong place or at the wrong time. and i may not have made it. i am so grateful to be here today as a result. you know really at the end is just that kind of auditorial processing left. so sometimes i might miss a word. sometimes i may mush two words together. you know let me give you an example what it is like sometimes. suppose i wanted to go shopping at wegmans. and i was actually shopping in our redners. but i really thought i was shopping in wegners. dr. oz has never stopped reminding me about i had having a stroke. i guarantee you there is at least one people here filming me hoping to catch me missing some words. and i am so grateful to be here today. you know what kind of a doctor roots for somebody that was sick. stay sick. how inspiring, how inspiring kind of a campaign is that? measuring and on how many words that i miss. and now how many of you how many of you have ever had your own personal health challenge in your life. okay keep your hands up. how many maybe what about maybe your your parents. what about your grandparents. god forbid what about a child. there is a lot of people that can relate to what i am going through. but you know what the good news is that by january i am going to be much better. but dr. oz will still be a fraud. he is the guy that is made millions scamming people. he sold miracle curries. i cannot pronounce. even i could not have pronounced them before the stroke. that is who dr. oz is. he has no core. he will say anything for a dollar. he will say anything for a vote. you know i call that the oz rule. that if he is on tv he is lying. he spent his career lying about magic pills. and now he is spending his entire campaign lying about my record on crime. i am actually a democrat. i am running on my record on crime. running on my record on crime. i ran to be mayor of bratik in a community that has significant gun violence. to be mayor to fight that. and because are working with the police and funding the police and working with the community. he went more than five years without a murder in my community as mayor. never happened before and never since i have been mayor. you know and let me ask you what does dr. oz ever known about crime or fight and crime? living in a gated mansion in new jersey? and now, oz might be a joke, but it is really not funny, because abortion rights are on the ballot right now. dr. oz, like to mention about how many times words that i miss, were there is two words that dr. oz misses, and that is yes or no on how is it about the national abortion band? he celebrated when roe v. wade fell. he stands with doug bostriano. oz does not care about pennsylvania. never has only interest in pennsylvania, because he is running for the senate. and let me ask you, if you do not live in pennsylvania, how can you fight for pennsylvania? so, here's my argument. send me to dc, and i will be that 51st vote. that 51st vote. send me there to eliminate the outfellibuster. raise the minimum wage. 7.25 an hour, is that okay? is not it ironic that a guy with 10 gigantic mansions thinks that 7.25 an hour is still okay? i guess i am also going to make sure that we vote for and pass the pro act. our campaign running on the union way of life and how sacred that is. it built america, it built the middle class, and we need to make more stuff in america, more stuff here in pennsylvania. i am going to go there to fight to expand healthcare. i know all of you or someone that you love had a major health challenge. i did, and you know what healthcare saved my life. and i am going to go to dc to fight that. i am going to fight for veterans. i know there are so veterans here. veterans, veterans. thank you so much for your service. and like pat tumey using veterans as bargaining chips, not on my watch. another thing, marriage equality. can you believe that this is back on the ballot now? and sometimes i will fight for things that at the time may not be politically popular, but back in 2013 as mayor, i was the only official willing to solemnize a gay marriage when it was illegal in 2013. tom corbett threatened to have me arrested for that. and i said, well, you know what? you know where i live? come send the gay police for me. and i am going to fight to codify roe v wade. abortion is on the ballots. and also here where we are now, another truth. they have spent $30 million on negative ads against me. $38 million. and we are still standing. more than standing, we are winning. winning up. still coming on fox news. more hits on fox news. more than all of the senator candidates combined. dr. oz has put in over $20 million of his own money into this race. but let me tell you, and i know you agree with me. this seat is not for sale right now. one last question. can you send him back over the river, dr. new jersey? and send me to dc. thank you, thank you, fox. you you you you