now to a pivotal senate race that could have a major impact on the balance of power in congress. democrat john federman is running for senate in pennsylvania. the 52-year-old lieutenant governor will face republican dr. oz in november. federman held his first rally friday after suffering a stroke in may. three months ago, three months ago, i may not, i may not have made it. but now i am standing right here in erie. you are going to deliver for us in november. and that will deliver pennsylvania for us. and i will deliver the 51st vote in the senate. cbs news reporter sarah ewell weiss was at the rally and joins us now from erie, pennsylvania. sarah, how many people were at the rally tonight and what was the mood? you know, this was a big moment for the federman campaign after he was off the campaign trail for three months because of that stroke. and when i showed up tonight, there was a line all the way out the door here at the convention center, all the way down the street. and a lot of energy from people who were here. you cannot tell now because they are slowly packing up. but behind me, the room was completely packed. a campaign official said they expected three to four hundred people. they may have doubled that. when federman took the stage, he said there were 1400 people here in an event in august coming into the fall primary season. that is a good sign for energy for the fall ahead. federman told our pittsburgh station thursday that he has no physical limitations after the stroke. did this come out at all during the rally? so he did talk about having the stroke. he was visibly emotional when he brought it up, saying he might not have been here. he thanked his wife, said she had saved his life. when he had that stroke back in may right before the primary, he was not feeling well. his wife made him go to the hospital and that may have saved his life, likely saved his life. but it is been a slow recovery moving forward. he said he should be back 100%. the doctors are saying he should be back 100%. he said in that interview with kdka that one of the issues that he had was that he still sometimes misses a word. but that is getting better and better every day. so here tonight, he did thank his supporters for sticking with him. he did thank his wife, obviously, and he said how very grateful he was to actually be here at this time. it is an amazing recovery to be sure. meantime, dr. oz is the republican nominee for pennsylvania in the senate. he has attacked federman, calling him a socialist, and demanding the two debates several times. what has federman said about his opponent? you know, he actually really did not bring him up tonight. throughout the campaign that had been mostly online for the past three months, they really have been poking fun at dr. oz. really going after him saying he is not from the state saying he is from new jersey. also because he is a big tv personality, multi-millionaire they talk about him being out of touch with everyday pennsylvanians. he did not bring up more policy topics really tonight specific to dr. oz. but he did continue to poke fun at him in that he is from new jersey and asking how many mansions he has. which has been an ongoing theme for him. of course, federman has said tonight and in the past that he wants to run a positive campaign. he says he will not talk about if dr. oz decides to go nasty, but he says he is focusing on the positives. and you know, when he had been off the campaign trail, they had been taking time to really go to voters through social media, connect with them online, through advertising. and so a lot of it was more fun. they pulled a lot of file video footage from dr. oz in the past because he is a famous man. they pulled a lot of that video and used that kind of to counter dr. oz versus federman. but they really did not go after him tonight specifically on policy. more just the poking fun aspect of this, but also just saying he is not from pennsylvania and he is also not in touch with pennsylvanians. why did federman choose to hold the rally in eerie? yes, this is extremely important. eerie is considered a bell weather for pennsylvania. federman said it tonight. his campaign is set in the past and others have told me this campaign officials have told me that when eerie, when pennsylvania, you know, buy in one the state by about a point in 2020. and so it really goes to show this is a very key county in the state and it is one that could be indicative of how the rest of the state votes. sarah, you all wise. thank you. thank you.