good evening. it is phil hagrid here. i want to thank everybody for joining us tonight. we are looking forward to a great day tomorrow. i want to make sure we get out the boat in a big, big way. tennessee is going to send a strong message of conservatives and tomorrow we are going to send a very strong message that we clearly support our president. i want to thank president trump for everything he is done for tennessee. he is done for me, my family, and all of us. and right now it is my great honor to turn it over to our president, donald j. trump. thank you, mr. president. well, thank you very much, bill, and good luck tomorrow. it is going to be a great day for this country. you are going to win, and it is going to be great. i just want to thank and say hello to the people of tennessee. we have been tremendous supporters, and i am a tremendous supporter of you. we had the best year that tennessee's ever had last year in so many ways, but in every economic way and just about every other way. so it is good to be on the call with you. you know, it is interesting that yesterday the tva, tennessee valley authority, i did a big thing about jobs. i did not know i was even making this call. i did not do it for this call, but tva, you have a man being paid eight million dollars a year, put there not by me, but by boards. it is sort of a semi-public deal. and we also, we are looking at making sure that the people in the tva are treated properly. so instead of that to be a big thing, and it is really working out very well. but i want to thank all of the people of tennessee. i am thrilled to be talking to you on the eve of this critical election. tomorrow, i need you to vote for my friend bill haggardy for u.s. senator. bill was one of my strongest supporters in 2016. he was right in there, and he was the head of the whole group in tennessee, and i could not have asked for better. i asked to really went to bill. i said, bill, we need your help. i want you to be on our transition team. i appointed him as ambassador to japan, and he was truly one of our best. he was an incredible ambassador to japan. they still talk about bill. he was really became legendary over there, and that is why we are doing this next step. as your next senator, bill, will be a stalwart defender of our conservative values. he is proudly pro-life and pro-family and pro-gun. he is going to be defending that second amendment all the way, and i have better than anybody is ever. we have not done anything with it, despite tremendous pressure to do something. it is tremendous pressure to take away your guns by the radical left. nothing happened. we have a totally defended, but i need bill. bill would be a great help while the radical left tries to defund our police. bill will strongly defend our police. he is very much against antifa, and everything antifa stands for. they are a nightmare. they are a disaster. just look at what they are doing in portland and look what they did in seattle. we got them out. we got them out too of portland, where you have sent a small group in there. we will shut it down completely if we have to. we did a great job also in minneapolis, where it was being taken over. we sent in the national guard and straightened it out fast. in one hour, it was all over. but bill will help us shut down the illegal immigration, ban sanctuary cities, and finish the wall. the wall is at 277 miles. we have a tremendous wall at stopping everything. it is going to be completed just about completed by the end of the year. we will be over 500 miles of wall in the most important areas. and it is had a tremendous impact even the 277 or so miles that have been built. bill was a very successful businessman. he knows what it takes to get an economy running. and if you have seen the kind of numbers that are coming out recently, you know, it is really running again. we are going to have a really good third quarter. we are going to have a phenomenal next year comparable to the best year you have ever had, which was last year. and bill's going to make sure that china is held accountable with me, held accountable for the lies and the deceit that unleash the china virus upon the world. so unfair, what happened to not only our country, but every country. but we now have it in very good shape. we have learned a lot about it. we want to open up our schools. a lot of your democrat governors and mayors do not want to have the schools open. but on november 4th, november 30th is the big day. that is the day of the election. on november 4th, you watch what happens. they will come out and they will say, oh, let us open up. they are doing it for elections and not doing it for what is right. but we want to open up our schools and our businesses. and that is basically what is going to be happening. but as ambassador, bill worked to strengthen our defensive partnership with japan. he helped to reach new trade deals that are fantastic deals. and we have really done a job together. he is really been a tremendous help. bill will be in the senate. he will help us confirm judges. you know, at the end of the term, my first term will be up to over. i think it will be over 300 new judges and two great supreme court justices. and that is a record. that is a record that is going to be very tough to beat. but bill will help me with that because it is so important for the senate. and bill will be leading the fight. i know him very well. he is a trump conservative. he is a friend of mine. he is a great guy. tennessee is one of my favorite places. i really appreciate all of your support. your support has been absolutely fantastic. and you have always been there for me. and i am always going to be for tennessee. it is a special place. there is a real love affair going on there. and i am at the head of it. i think it is just a great, great state. i want to thank everybody for being on. we have a lot of people in this call. go out and vote for bill hagerty. he is going to do an exceptional job. go tomorrow. go early if you can and put it away. he will do a great, great job. thank you everybody. and thank you to tennessee.