means the voting is underway here. i am told it is a suffrage of 20 to 30 minutes for all votes to be cast. senator shelley moore, cap it up. uh, west virginia joining us right now. uh, senator, explain this process now. i guess anyone who of republicans who would have wanted to vote against, uh, ms. devos would have done so already. we all, we know of the two. do you know of any others? would they have long ago telegraphed that? well, i think that we would know what the exact vote count is. and, you know, the margins are very thin on everything. and so i think there is with great assurances. we will say it is going to be a 50-50 tie and vice president pencil come in and breaks the tie, which i think is very historic. i think it is the only time for a cabinet secretary that the vice president has actually broken that tie. what do you make of that, senator? that, uh, uh, many on the left are trying to make hayes it to say, even if she gets in, she is damaged goods. uh, sometimes you get in, you get in. people soon forget the vote, uh, but, but that this will weigh on her and, and, and hold the leash on her. well, i gotta think of, oh, you know, what i look at is, uh, she is going to be secretary of education. what more important issue before all of us than the education of our children and, and grandchildren for the next generation? we should be supportive. once the voting is done, we should be supportive of that nominee to make sure that the bill that we passed last year bipartisan every child, every student is in two to five months and four days to aland. a case that has been firmly living in temporary business and inevitably messy living every day in their demographic and hence get ready to say similarly, eight weeks after that page of the bill i totally think that the further getting full senate confirmation but a devil of time getting there. in fact this president has the distinction i guess through no faults of his own of having the smallest cabinet at this point in his young presidency and democrats are using all levers to make sure they are legally and parliamentarily doing it. but what message do you think that is sending? well i think it is a message of dysfunction. it is a message that the senate democrats are not ready to work, are not ready to do the traditional thing which is to give the president his ability any president the ability to move forward with the projects and the will of the people that was expressed during the election. so it has been slow walked historically we have had many more confirmations by this time in a bipartisan way and even with fiery hearings and ability to express yourself the democrats are not even doing that they did not show up to my committee meeting which is epw to even voice their opinion on scott pruitt. to me it is too much obstructionism it is time to lay down our arms people are not sending us here to have this constant bickering and we could be doing a lot to shorten the timeframes if the democrats cooperate absolutely. all right scott pruitt for up for the epa job again not in peril but again part of the process with his drags on we have seen a number of citing senator neil gorsuch of course the president's choice to fill the supreme court seat of anthony scalia and there is talk back and forth that he is winning over some democrats maybe dying fights time who met with him briefly yesterday i do not know of other democrats but that one of the issues i heard come up is that democrats will not get into a constitutional fight on this one they are saving it for the next supreme court pick the viewer to anything like that it is extremely i have heard that theory yes but let us look at who we are talking about we are talking about a mainstream judge who is very well respected a judges judge he came i got to meet him last week he came by the office just a straight up great american and it is not easy he said you know his guiding principle is to always to do right or try to do what is right and and to have the courage to express your opinion i think this is what we want we want a judge that adheres to the constitution to the law he is conservative i like that but i think if you look at him in the hole i do not see how many people could really object to somebody like neil gorsuch serving as our supreme court justice now what happens after that is a whole nother story you know um whether it is 50 plus votes or 60 plus votes uh i am hearing that mitch fakon of course it keeps saying that is role of senate leader that the judge will get approved and we will be sitting on the supreme court do you take him to mean that if it looks unlikely that he could get 60 votes republicans are ready with the so-called nuclear option to make it a simple majority and would you be okay with that you know i do not think it is time to make that statement as to whether anybody's ready or what i would think at the time i think we have got to let the process move forward we are seeing democrats let us give him his day in court let us have him uh have the ability to make his case before the senate talking about judge gorsuch and and i hope that that spirit kind of cascades and that we do what we have done historically which is to listen and then express our opinions on the confirmations so i think it is premature to say what direction we could go but i would take senator mcconnell and his word as i always do that uh he will be confirmed last question i am only saying because it is outside to this noise going on right now and that the issue of tax cuts as you know senator the markets go up and down of late on on just the prospect of whether they see tax cuts going through or not this year and i right now up uh larger on the belief that they have heard from the president and they have heard from others that the goal is still to get tax cuts on the table and done maybe this year how doable is that in your eyes you are right there on the front lines i am and and speaker ryan just walked by and he is one of the main architects and and also one of the main policy people that is helping us to formulate a tax reform there is a lot of buy-in on both sides i do believe tax cuts will come forward by the end of the year might be in a bigger package uh i think the economy and the confidence in the economy really relies on it and relies on us fulfilling our word and i would hope that the dysfunction we are seeing around the cabinet positions would would dissipate and we can get back to the business of getting people back to work senator thank you for joining us we do appreciate you thank you