skip to content senator democrats facebook senator democrats twitter senator democrats instagram senator democrats youtube newsroom press published: 11.18.2025 after months of gop stonewalling the release of the files to protect president trump, leader schumer leads entire senate democratic caucus in demanding senate immediately pass the epstein files transparency act washington, d.c. - following the passage in the house of representatives of the epstein files transparency act, senate democratic leader chuck schumer (d-ny) called on senate republican leader john thune (r-sd) to bring the legislation to the senate floor without delay or any change to the legislative text. today, senate democratic leader chuck schumer (d-ny), u.s. senators gary peters (d-mi), ranking member of the homeland security and governmental affairs committee, dick durbin (d-il), ranking member of the judiciary committee, and jeff merkley (d-or), ranking member of the budget committee, led their senate democratic colleagues in demanding republican leader john thune (r-sd) immediately bring the epstein files transparency act to the senate floor for a vote, without delay or legislative changes. their letter follows the u.s. house of representatives’ overwhelming bipartisan approval of the measure by a vote of (427-1). “the victims of jeffrey epstein – and the american people – deserve answers, accountability and the truth,” wrote the senators. “so far, they have only seen empty promises from president trump and his administration. now that a majority of the u.s. house of representatives has acted to provide transparency on this matter – we call on you to quickly hold a vote in the u.s. senate to help deliver the accountability that was promised and that so many americans are demanding.” for more than two decades, survivors of jeffrey epstein have sought justice and accountability for his alleged sexual crimes involving underage girls. the bipartisan legislation would require the department of justice (doj) to release all documents and records related to epstein and ghislaine maxwell, ensuring transparency and providing the american people with access to critical information. as recently as last year , trump promised americans he would release the files, saying “yeah, yeah i would” and “i would be inclined to do the epstein [files]. i would have no problem with it." yet, for months, the house republicans have stonewalled their release and senate republicans have blocked multiple democratic attempts to release the files and give transparency, accountability, and the truth to the victims and to americans nationwide. schumer has been calling for the release of the epstein files since 2019. after epstein’s sweetheart plea deal, senator schumer called for the office of professional responsibility to stop stonewalling and make the documentation public, adding he wanted the senate to have hearings on the matter. more recently, in july, leader schumer , senator peters and democratic committee colleagues pushed the doj to turn over the epstein files by citing their authority under a little known statute, the rule of five. this law requires executive agencies to submit requested information to the homeland security and governmental affairs committee that falls within the committee’s oversight jurisdiction of the federal government. that letter was followed up with another in august which once again demanded for the doj to turn over the files. the trump administration refused to comply with both of these requests. and in september, senator schumer offered an amendment to the ndaa that would have directed ag bondi to release all unclassified documents related to jeffrey epstein. 51 republican senators voted against it. “the u.s. senate has the chance to show strong leadership and swiftly pass this legislation,” concluded the senators. “ we urge you to promptly proceed to the consideration of h.r. 4405 on the senate floor pursuant to senate rule xiv, so that the legislation can be immediately placed on the senate calendar.” joining peters, schumer, durbin and merkley in sending the letter were u.s. senators angela alsobrooks (d-md), tammy baldwin (d-wi), michael bennet (d-co), richard blumenthal (d-ct), lisa blunt rochester (d-de), cory booker (d-nj), maria cantwell (d-wa), chris coons (d-de), catherine cortez masto (d-nv), tammy duckworth (d-il), john fetterman (d-pa), ruben gallego (d-az), kirsten gillibrand (d-ny), maggie hassan (d-nh), martin heinrich (d-nm), john hickenlooper (d-co), mazie hirono (d-hi), tim kaine (d-va), mark kelly (d-az), andy kim (d-nj), angus king (i-me), amy klobuchar (d-mn), ben ray luján (d-nm), ed markey (d-ma), chris murphy (d-ct), patty murray (d-wa), jon ossoff (d-ga), alex padilla (d-ca), jack reed (d-ri), jacky rosen (d-nv), bernie sanders (i-vt), brian schatz (d-hi), adam schiff (d-ca), jeanne shaheen (d-nh), elissa slotkin (d-mi), tina smith (d-mn), chris van hollen (d-md), mark warner (d-va), raphael warnock (d-ga), elizabeth warren (d-ma), peter welch (d-vt), sheldon whitehouse (d-ri), and ron wyden (d-or). the full text of the letter is available here. ### previous website-search