skip to content senator democrats facebook senator democrats twitter senator democrats instagram senator democrats youtube newsroom press published: 04.11.2025 thanks to trump chaos, summer just got more expensive the economic chaos of the trump administration means nothing is safe – not even your summer plans. thanks to the trump tariff tax, and musk and doge cuts and layoffs, everything about our lives is more expensive and more stressful. massive doge cuts to public lands staff are wreaking havoc on our national parks—and everything from emts to campsites are affected, causing headaches for travelers in every state. while major cuts to the faa have caused public safety concerns and an increase in flight delays. not even our roads are safe from the chaos, as funding cuts to infrastructure projects mean paused construction. and the trade war has only begun to affect the cost of travel and summer necessities. all while trump brags about his billionaires getting richer playing the market during his nonsensical trade war. public lands, from forests to national parks are feeling the heat ahead of summer travel. the so-called department of government efficiency fired upwards of 4,500 employees in charge of protecting hundreds of millions of acres of public lands. from wildland firefighters to park emts and locksmiths, the dismissal of critical positions will effect public safety. not only that, but parks are reeling from downsizing, meaning cuts to hours, closure of trails and campsites, and bathrooms and public areas will be less clean. how is any of that efficient? and threats to the faa make our skies less safe. doge fired 400 aviation safety specialists tasked with designing flight routes, maintaining air traffic facilities and more. if aviation safety professionals do not have the resources or manpower to ensure the safety of every flight, flights will be delayed or cancelled at an increasing rate. and it’s not just chaos at the airport, this is dangerous to national security. the firings even hit employees who work on the national airspace system defense programs, a joint operation involving the faa and the pentagon that maintains and repairs long-range radar used to monitor international civilian flights as well as potential national security threats such as enemy bombers, missiles and spy balloons. charles spitzer-stadtlander, who worked on the operation, said “my first thought was not, ‘oh, i just lost my job.’ my first thought was: this is really bad for national security .” the economic chaos of the trump administration means nothing is safe – not even your summer plans. thanks to the trump tariff tax, and musk and doge cuts and layoffs, everything about our lives is more expensive and more stressful. massive doge cuts to public lands staff are wreaking havoc on our national parks—and everything from emts to campsites are affected, causing headaches for travelers in every state. while major cuts to the faa have caused public safety concerns and an increase in flight delays. not even our roads are safe from the chaos, as funding cuts to infrastructure projects mean paused construction. and the trade war has only begun to affect the cost of travel and summer necessities. all while trump brags about his billionaires getting richer playing the market during his nonsensical trade war. the economic chaos of the trump administration means nothing is safe – not even your summer plans. thanks to the trump tariff tax, and musk and doge cuts and layoffs, everything about our lives is more expensive and more stressful. massive doge cuts to public lands staff are wreaking havoc on our national parks—and everything from emts to campsites are affected, causing headaches for travelers in every state. while major cuts to the faa have caused public safety concerns and an increase in flight delays. not even our roads are safe from the chaos, as funding cuts to infrastructure projects mean paused construction. and the trade war has only begun to affect the cost of travel and summer necessities. all while trump brags about his billionaires getting richer playing the market during his nonsensical trade war. the economic chaos of the trump administration means nothing is safe – not even your summer plans. thanks to the trump tariff tax, and musk and doge cuts and layoffs, everything about our lives is more expensive and more stressful. massive doge cuts to public lands staff are wreaking havoc on our national parks—and everything from emts to campsites are affected, causing headaches for travelers in every state. while major cuts to the faa have caused public safety concerns and an increase in flight delays. not even our roads are safe from the chaos, as funding cuts to infrastructure projects mean paused construction. and the trade war has only begun to affect the cost of travel and summer necessities. all while trump brags about his billionaires getting richer playing the market during his nonsensical trade war. previous website-search