the democratic party currently in one of its weakest positions in washington, d.c. and nationally in the last century is trying to figure out how to rebuild the first order of business electing senator chuck schumer as the new senate minority leader. the brooklyn-borin-three-term senator from new york is already foreshadowing a new york-style showdown, telling his fellow new yorker president-elect trump to expect a, quote, strong and tough fight. let us bring in cnn, senior washington correspondent jeff dallani, jeff. senator schumer and president-elect trump, they go back. trump, in fact, used to be a campaign contributor to mr. schumer. jake, he did. that is when donald trump was a democrat, not so long ago. but oddly, senator schumer and donald trump have one of the longest relationships of any of the leaders here in washington, certainly more than the republican leaders do. senator schumer says he is going to fight with donald trump, but not reflexively. he will not oppose things. he says simply because they are donald trump's ideas. he is the last democrat standing in the way of donald trump. fellow new yorker, senator chuck schumer. we are ready to stand shoulder to shoulder with republicans, working with soon-to-be president trump on issues where we agree. but we will go toe to toe against the president-elect whenever our values or the progress we have made is under assault. it is a delicate dance for schumer. elected today by senate democrats to lead them beyond their singing defeat into the new era of trump, he faces a balancing act of confrontation and cooperation. he said he will do both. indeed, silver lining in the deep clouds of this election is that on many economic issues, president-elect trump and his campaign was closer to us than to republican leadership, which always seems to wind up in the corner of the special interests. of all the new dynamics that lie ahead in trump's washington, the relationship between the incoming president and the new democratic leader could be the one to watch. the two have a far deeper history than most anyone in the capitol. that much was clear last month at the al smith charity dinner in new york. he used to love me when i was a democrat, you know. trump, who gave money to many democrats over the years, also contributed to a handful of schumer's campaigns. thank you, sir. the schumer household is an stranger to working across the aisle. iris? his wife, iris weinschull, was transportation commissioner under republican new york mayor rudy giuliani. and even though their differences are wide, spanning a divide from schumer's brooklyn to trump's fifth avenue, they have often bonded over their love of new york and their quest to make a deal. when trump and ted cruz were sparring over new york values in the gop primary, schumer sided with trump. he stood up for new york 100%. as democrats pick up the pieces from hillary clinton's stunning defeat, the party is in the wilderness and on capitol hill in the minority. when you lose an election like this, you cannot flinch. you cannot ignore it. you need to look at right in the eye and ask why. analyze it and learn from it. to rebuild the party, schumer added independent vermont senator bernie sanders to the ranks of senate democratic leadership, but at schumer, who will be cutting deals or sparring with trump. we are not going to just as some have done here in the past, said just because it is president trump's idea or thought, we are going to oppose it per se. where we can work together, we will. but i have also said to the president-elect on issues where we disagree, you can expect a strong and tough fight. one person not a bad fight, jake, is hillary clinton. but she will be making her first appearance since conceding one week ago tonight during a speech at the children's defense fund in washington. i am told by an aide that she will urge her supporters to remain committed to progressive politics at every level. jake.