well, mr. president, it is nice to see paul ryan back here in congress. it will be even nicer to see him back here as a full-time member in january. now, there have been a lot of controversy about mr. ryan and some of the things he says and what he states, why he states them, and the contrast with what he says and what he has done. but perhaps the least credible claim of all about congressman ryan is the idea that he is a serious deficit hawk and that his budget is a serious attempt at deficit reduction. he is not, and it is not. the paul ryan budget is about ideology rather than common-sense solutions to the country's economic and fiscal problems. and as more and more people are learning, it certainly is not about, as bill clinton said, arithmetic. in ryan's budget, any savings achieved by his plan to privatize medicare and gut investments in the middle class do not go to reducing the deficit. he is saying he is creating that pain because we need the pain for deficit reduction. but he uses all those savings to pay for further tax cuts to the wealthy. this chart explains it pretty well. independent studies have found that the ryan budget would raise taxes on the middle class by about $2,600, up to $2,600. people between $50,000 and $100,000 pay $1,300. more a year, people between $100,000 and $200,000 pay $2,600 more a year. and then there are whopping savings for people whose income is over $1,000, $285,000. as a result of the massive giveaways to the wealthiest americans, the congressional budget office found that ryan's plan failed to balance the budget until 2040. but even this conclusion relies on rosy assumptions supplied to cbo by ryan himself. ryan's plan could take even longer to improve the fiscal outlook under a more realistic set of assumptions. even taking the unrealistically rosy assumptions that ryan stipulates in his budget, for instance, that revenue levels would be 19% of gdp, that is almost certainly not true. his plan would not balance the budget until 2040. independent experts like the non-partisan tax policy center have challenged these assumptions. under more realistic assumptions, ryan's plan could take far longer to balance the budget and cause the federal debt to rise even further. moreover, ryan's spending cuts are unrealistic, totally. outside of medicare and medicaid, mr. ryan would slash the government, including defense to 3.75% of gdp by 2050. defense alone is 4.6 today. according to cbo, the total has never been below 8% since world war ii, and defense has never been below 3%. so mr. ryan would either have to make massive defense cuts, the very same defense cuts he would decried on the campaign trail yesterday, or he would need to virtually eliminate the rest of the government, transportation, security, fbi, education, scientific research, food testing. we know that is not going to happen. the larger point is this, in terms of deficit reduction, the ryan plan is, no other way to state it, a fraud. this should come as no surprise, after all. congressman ryan supported the bush policies that got us into this deep fiscal hole in the first place. from the bush tax cuts to 2 unfunded wars, to the paid for creation of medicare part d, congressman ryan's fingerprints are all over the big spending bush policies that turn bill clinton's record surplus into the record deficits inherited by barack obama. ryan voted against the simpson-bulls framework. when paul ryan had a chance to walk the walk on deficit reduction, he joined all the other house republicans on the commission in voting down the report. he urged speaker boehner to abandon the grand bargain talks with president obama. the new york times reported in 2011, ryan appealed to representative canter to cut off negotiations between the speaker and white house, because he did not feel the terms of the emerging agreement adhered strictly enough to his conservative principles, and the deal might politically benefit president obama. so, it is not a secret that the ryan budget both hurts the middle class and does nothing for deficit reduction. the only people who would benefit are the very wealthy and god bless them. they are doing well in america, but his recent statistics just showed. they are the only people gaining income. and one other thing i would like to add about mr. ryan here. he seems like a nice man, nice family, but his recent speeches have just been so revealing, and he did the same thing yesterday once again, showing he has learned nothing from the mistakes he is made in the last few weeks. when it comes to the big debates facing our country, paul ryan either has an extremely poor memory or has a tendency to play fast and loose with the facts. in one speech, congressman ryan falsely blamed president obama for shuddering the gm plant that actually announced it was closing during president bush's term. for 716 million in medicare savings, that congressman ryan included in his own budget. and third, for the failure of the simpson-bulls blueprint, that congressman ryan himself voted against. now that is just a sampling. that is just a sampling. and just yesterday he did it again. there you go again, paul ryan. he was back at a speech in wisconsin. he blamed the president solely the president for the year and trigger the sequestration that was part of the budget control act. never mind that congressman ryan voted for the very same sequestration himself. never mind it was his side's idea, in fact, to hold our credit rating hostage in the first place and insist on these dollar for dollar cuts he now decries. never mind the fact that we all know that if paul ryan had opposed the sequestration proposal, chairman of the budget committee in the house, it certainly would have failed. and now he goes to wisconsin and says the president's to blame for sequestration. it is the same thing he did with simpson-bulls. it is not fair, it is not right. all we could do, all one can do is shake your head at this kind of, what is good for me is not good for you. this kind of double standard. so i would say to paul ryan, you have not learned much from your mistakes in the past few weeks. there you go again. your budget proves it and you are even up to your speeches yesterday, prove it again. madam president, i yield the floor.