skip to content senator baldwin facebook senator baldwin bluesky senator baldwin twitter senator baldwin instagram senator baldwin youtube get e-news updates news press releases published: 10.30.2025 baldwin blasts trump administration denying more disaster aid for wisconsin communities impacted by august storms denial of hazard mitigation funding comes in addition to president trump denying wisconsin’s request for public infrastructure aid washington, d.c . – today, u.s. senator tammy baldwin (d-wi) released a statement following the trump administration’s denial of wisconsin’s application for hazard mitigation grant program funding to help recover and build back from severe storms and flooding in august. this denial comes in addition to president trump and fema denying wisconsin’s request for public assistance to help address $26.5 million in damages to public infrastructure. “wisconsin communities are working tirelessly to rebuild and recover – and all they are asking for is a helping hand from the federal government. but, the trump administration is leaving our local communities out to dry and without the tools and resources they need to protect themselves from having this type of devastation happen in the future,” said senator baldwin . “denying federal assistance and leaving our communities to fend for themselves is a slap in the face to all wisconsinites. i’m once again calling on the trump administration to reconsider their decision and prioritize our local communities.” fema’s hazard mitigation grant program provides funding to state, local, and tribal governments to develop hazard mitigation plans and rebuild in ways that reduce or mitigate future disaster losses in their communities. after the trump administration denied wisconsin’s request for assistance to rebuild public infrastructure, baldwin called on her republican colleagues to join her in supporting governor evers’ appeal. senator baldwin pushed the trump administration to act and get wisconsin the federal resources communities need to recover. she led a bipartisan group of colleagues calling on the trump administration and fema to support wisconsin’s request to assist in conducting a formal federal preliminary damage assessment. baldwin also joined the entire wisconsin delegation in requesting an expedited joint preliminary damage assessment and requesting the president issue a major disaster declaration to unlock federal assistance for recovery efforts in wisconsin. ### previous next website-search