skip to content senator baldwin facebook senator baldwin bluesky senator baldwin twitter senator baldwin instagram senator baldwin youtube get e-news updates news press releases published: 11.18.2025 baldwin demands senate immediately pass bill to release epstein files washington, d.c. – today, u.s. senator tammy baldwin (d-wi) joined her colleagues in demanding republican majority leader john thune (r-sd) immediately bring the epstein files transparency act to the senate floor for a vote, without delay or legislative changes. their call follows the u.s. house of representatives’ overwhelming bipartisan approval of the measure by a vote of (427-1). “the victims of jeffrey epstein – and the american people – deserve answers, accountability and the truth,” wrote baldwin and the senators . “so far, they have only seen empty promises from president trump and his administration. now that a majority of the u.s. house of representatives has acted to provide transparency on this matter – we call on you to quickly hold a vote in the u.s. senate to help deliver the accountability that was promised and that so many americans are demanding.” for more than two decades, survivors of jeffrey epstein have sought justice and accountability for his alleged sexual crimes involving underage girls. the bipartisan legislation would require the department of justice (doj) to release all documents and records related to epstein and ghislaine maxwell, ensuring transparency and providing the american people with access to critical information. as recently as last year , trump promised americans he would release the files, saying “yeah, yeah i would” and “i would be inclined to do the epstein [files]. i would have no problem with it." yet, for months, the house republicans have stonewalled their release and senate republicans have blocked multiple democratic attempts to release the files and give transparency, accountability, and the truth to the victims and to americans nationwide. “the u.s. senate has the chance to show strong leadership and swiftly pass this legislation,” concluded baldwin and the senators . “we urge you to promptly proceed to the consideration of h.r. 4405 on the senate floor pursuant to senate rule xiv, so that the legislation can be immediately placed on the senate calendar.” the letter was signed by the entire senate democratic caucus. the full text of the letter is available here . ### previous next website-search