skip to content senator baldwin facebook senator baldwin bluesky senator baldwin twitter senator baldwin instagram senator baldwin youtube get e-news updates news press releases published: 11.06.2025 watch: baldwin presses rail regulator nominees on whether they will cave to trump and rubberstamp railroad megamerger union pacific recently visited the white house, helping fund trump’s white house ballroom washington, d.c. – today, at a nomination hearing in front of the senate commerce committee, u.s. senator tammy baldwin (d-wi) pushed two of president trump’s nominees for the surface transportation board (stb) – mr. richard kloster and ms. michelle schultz – on whether they will act independently or simply take orders from the president. the hearing comes after president trump illegally fired former stb member robert primus and ahead of a proposed megamerger between union pacific and norfolk southern, which could further undercut competition for class i railroads and lead to even worse service for shippers like wisconsin farmers, manufacturers, and consumers. as the stb considers this merger, union pacific’s ceo recently visited president trump in the oval office and committed to helping fund the president’s $300 million white house ballroom. the merger, in which union pacific agreed to acquire norfolk southern, would be the most significant consolidation in freight rail in decades and would undoubtedly reshape the u.s. freight rail industry and supply chain. the surface transportation board received a notice of intent regarding the proposed railway merger in july, which initiates the regulatory review process. baldwin has been critical of the rail merger, citing the continued consolidation in the railroad industry and impacts on manufacturers, agriculture, small businesses, and consumers. senators baldwin and roger marshall (r-ks) called on the surface transportation board to scrutinize the impact of this merger on the already poor service and high costs experienced by american businesses and consumers that rely on freight rail. full video of senator baldwin’s questions is available here . ### previous next website-search