skip to content senator baldwin facebook senator baldwin bluesky senator baldwin twitter senator baldwin instagram senator baldwin youtube get e-news updates news press releases published: 11.14.2025 icymi: baldwin keeps up pressure to extend health care tax breaks with three stops in wisconsin baldwin visits madison, milwaukee, & green bay to talk with wisconsinites whose health care costs will skyrocket if tax breaks expire wisconsin – today, senator tammy baldwin (d-wi) wrapped up another week on the road with stops in milwaukee , madison , and green bay to highlight how the expiration of affordable care act (aca) tax credits will devastate wisconsin families and small businesses. the 275,000 wisconsinites who rely on enhanced premium tax credits to afford their aca coverage will see their premiums double on average if republicans allow them to expire next year. 275,000 wisconsinites benefit from the affordable care act’s enhanced premium tax credits, saving them an average of $585 per month. unless republicans work with democrats to extend these tax breaks beyond january 1, 2026, four million americans will not be able to afford their health care entirely, including 30,000 wisconsinites. recent polling shows that 78 percent of americans and nearly 60 percent of republicans support extending the tax credits. on monday, senator baldwin forced a senate vote to extend the affordable care act’s (aca) enhanced premium tax credits for one year. senate republicans voted to stop baldwin’s effort to add her amendment that would have extended the affordable care act’s enhanced premium tax credits to the government funding bill before the senate. senator baldwin also leads legislation to make these tax breaks permanent. in recent weeks, senator baldwin has traveled the state making stops in weston , green bay , milwaukee , and mount horeb to highlight how the expiration of these tax credits will hurt working families, small businesses, and farmers. she’s also hosted roundtables with constituents while in d.c. working to reopen the government, including with wisconsinites from la crosse , eau claire , and milwaukee , in addition to meeting with wisconsin farmers who use the affordable care act. she also convened governor tony evers and representatives gwen moore (d-wi-04) and mark pocan (d-wi-02) to highlight just how much wisconsinites’ premiums would rise without these tax credits. ### previous next website-search