skip to content senator baldwin facebook senator baldwin bluesky senator baldwin twitter senator baldwin instagram senator baldwin youtube get e-news updates news press releases published: 11.04.2025 watch: baldwin calls on trump to fully fund foodshare for wisconsin families baldwin’s floor speech comes as trump continues to sow confusion and keep food from hungry families washington, d.c. – in a senate floor speech today, u.s. senator tammy baldwin (d-wi) called on president trump to once again use the resources at his disposal and fully fund supplemental nutrition assistance program (snap) benefits. baldwin’s speech comes as two judges confirmed that donald trump was required to use emergency funds to fund snap, yet trump continues to sow confusion and refuses to use available resources to ensure foodshare recipients get their full benefits for november immediately. “the president has the money for all sorts of things. private planes for his staff, $20 billion to bail out argentina, and of course, his glamorous ballroom. but, he is choosing not to fund snap and keep 700,000 wisconsinites fed. he would rather hold families hostage than simply work with democrats to lower health care costs and reopen the government,” said senator baldwin. senator baldwin has repeatedly called on the trump administration to continue to fund snap and ensure that the approximately 42 million americans who receive snap see their benefits continue uninterrupted. in wisconsin alone, approximately 700,000 people rely on snap for food assistance benefits. of those receiving assistance, 270,000 are children and 108,000 are senior citizens. earlier this year, every wisconsin republican in congress voted for the largest cut to the snap program in history. last week, senator baldwin and her colleagues introduced the keep snap and wic funded act of 2025 to direct the usda to immediately release billions of dollars in available funds to ensure snap and wic benefits continue uninterrupted for the remainder of this fiscal year. the legislation also requires the federal government to reimburse states for covering snap benefits during a shutdown. watch senator baldwin’s floor speech here . ### previous next website-search