skip to content senator baldwin facebook senator baldwin bluesky senator baldwin twitter senator baldwin instagram senator baldwin youtube get e-news updates news press releases published: 11.21.2025 baldwin calls on trump administration to immediately release head start funds at least 17 head start programs in 12 states serving over 6,600 children are still closed despite federal government fully open; two head start programs in wisconsin have still not received funds, forcing one to remain closed washington, d.c. – today, u.s. senator tammy baldwin (d-wi) is calling on the trump administration to immediately release funds for head start programs across the country now that the federal government is fully reopened. all year the trump administration has repeatedly tried to undermine head start programs and currently, at least 17 programs in 12 states caring for over 6,600 children are still closed because the trump administration has not yet disbursed funds the programs are owed. in wisconsin, two head start programs have still not received their funding, forcing southwestern wisconsin community action program head start to be closed entirely. “it is unacceptable that head start programs continue to wait for federal funds now that the government has reopened,” senator baldwin wrote to health and human services (hhs) secretary robert f. kennedy, jr. “the federal government has been open for more than a week, and yet, as of november 20, at least 17 programs in 12 states caring for over 6,600 children are closed. this means parents are needlessly facing the difficult choice of finding expensive alternative care or to not working and earning income for their families,” baldwin concluded . head start serves roughly 750,000 children. the federal government shutdown ended more than a week ago and funds to support these programs need to be released swiftly so programs can reopen and continue to operate. unfortunately, approximately 130 programs serving over 60,000 children are still awaiting grant funding which would have otherwise been released in october or november, but for the government shutdown. during the shutdown, baldwin introduced a bill to avoid any lapse in funding and keep head start programs open, protecting vital childcare and early learning services for pre-school children, infants, and toddlers. since day one, the trump administration has repeatedly delayed, withheld, and threatened funding for head start programs. draft budget documents showed that the administration wanted to eliminate head start as part of its fiscal year 2026 budget proposal. earlier this year, the trump administration also illegally froze congressionally approved funding for head start, forcing at least one program in wisconsin to close. in july, the main government watchdog issued a report that found the trump administration illegally impounded funding approved by congress for head start programs. “the office of head start must act immediately to support wisconsin’s working families in head start and release access to grant funds. every day without this funding access means that families in southwest wisconsin are struggling to get to work, children are put into difficult situations, and several more communities are dangerously close to finding themselves in the same situation,” said jennie mauer, executive director of the wisconsin head start association . “this crisis in our communities didn’t start with the government shutdown, it started when health and human services abruptly shutdown the regional offices needed to process and monitor grants. wisconsin’s economy can’t wait another day. these delays are hurting wisconsin workers, wisconsin families, and wisconsin children. in april, senator baldwin led a group of 41 senators in calling out the trump administration’s direct attacks on head start and demanding hhs release head start funding, reverse the mass firing of head start staff, and stop gutting the offices that help ensure high-quality child care is available for thousands of children and families across the country. she also pressed hhs secretary kennedy on this frozen funding at a senate hearing in may. as the ranking member of the senate appropriations subcommittee for labor, health and human services, education, and related agencies, senator baldwin’s bill to fund the department of health and human services includes $12.4 billion for head start, an $85 million increase. full text of the letter can be found below or here . dear secretary kennedy and principal deputy assistant secretary gradison: i write to you today to urge you to immediately issue notice of awards to head start programs that had their funding delayed due to the government shutdown. over 130 programs serving nearly 65,000 children have had to either close their doors or string together other sources of funding in order to keep their doors open without federal funding. it is unacceptable that head start programs continue to wait for federal funds now that the government has reopened. from the very start of the trump administration, head start programs have faced an onslaught of attacks and chaos. on january 27, 2025, the office of management and budget issued a memo that froze the disbursement of grant funding for federal programs and services governmentwide, including head start, causing rapid uncertainty for programs. on april 1, hhs abruptly closed five of the ten regional offices that help local grantees administer head start programs in 22 states. furthermore, in july, the government accountability office found that the administration illegally withheld funding from head start programs nationwide. now, head start programs and the families that rely on head start across the nation are facing more uncertainty as programs remain closed while available funding has yet to go out the door. the federal government has been open for more than a week, and yet, as of november 20, at least 17 programs in 12 states caring for over 6,600 children are closed. this means parents are needlessly facing the difficult choice of finding expensive alternative care or to not working and earning income for their families. i urge you to immediately issue awards to ensure all head start programs can fully operate. sincerely, ### previous next website-search