skip to content senator baldwin facebook senator baldwin bluesky senator baldwin twitter senator baldwin instagram senator baldwin youtube get e-news updates news press releases published: 11.09.2025 baldwin opposes government funding bill that fails to address skyrocketing health care costs legislation does not stop wisconsinites’ health care costs from rising as much as $30,000 next year 78% of americans – including majorities of republicans, democrats, and independents – support extending health care tax breaks washington, d.c. – today, u.s. senator tammy baldwin (d-wi) released the following statement on the government funding deal that fails to stop health care costs from skyrocketing for more than 275,000 wisconsinites: “my goal is always results for wisconsin families. and what i hear from wisconsinites is they need some breathing room and cannot afford to have their health care costs double. so, that is what i have been fighting for. i have been in washington at the table trying to reopen our government and find a compromise to make sure that 275,000 wisconsinites don’t have their health care costs go through the roof next year. donald trump and my republican colleagues have refused to even talk. a wink and a nod to deal with this health care crisis later – with no actual guarantees – is just not enough for me or the wisconsin families i work for. the clock is up, families are shopping for insurance now, and i refuse to sign off on a deal that doesn’t lower working families’ health care costs.” wisconsinites who buy their insurance through the affordable care act, or healthcare.gov, are currently shopping for coverage for 2026, only to find their premiums cost as much as $30,000 more per year because republicans have failed to extend vital tax breaks that help wisconsinites afford their insurance. 275,000 wisconsinites benefit from the affordable care act’s enhanced premium tax credits, saving them an average of $585 per month. it is projected that the failure to extend these tax credits will lead to four million americans not able to afford their health care entirely, including 30,000 wisconsinites. recent polling shows that 78 percent of americans and nearly 60 percent of republicans support extending the tax credits. ### previous next website-search