skip to content senator baldwin facebook senator baldwin bluesky senator baldwin twitter senator baldwin instagram senator baldwin youtube get e-news updates news press releases published: 10.31.2025 baldwin statement on courts mandating trump fund snap immediately and follow the law trump administration is required by law to use available emergency funding to keep snap benefits flowing in november washington, d.c. – today, after two federal judges ruled that the trump administration must continue to fund the supplemental nutrition assistance program (snap), senator baldwin released the following statement: “it should have never come to this. the courts just confirmed what i have been saying all week: the trump administration was making a choice – an illegal one at that – to cruelly cut off food assistance for wisconsinites,” said senator baldwin. “this truly was politics at its worst. foodshare in wisconsin is a lifeline for working families and ensures children can go to sleep with full stomachs. the trump administration needs to stop dragging their feet and get these funds out the door immediately so no family has an empty fridge tomorrow.” despite having billions of dollars available in emergency funding to pay for snap and being legally mandated to fund the program, the trump administration has so far refused to do so. the trump administration’s united states department of agriculture (usda), which administers snap funding, had a shutdown plan on its website explicitly stating that it can use emergency funds for the program during a shutdown, before pulling that plan down and reversing course. this week, senator baldwin and her colleagues introduced the keep snap and wic funded act of 2025 to direct the usda to immediately release billions of dollars in available funds to ensure snap and wic benefits continue uninterrupted for the remainder of this fiscal year. the legislation also requires the federal government to reimburse states for covering snap benefits during a shutdown. in wisconsin alone, approximately 700,000 people rely on snap for food assistance benefits and were at risk of losing the aid if the usda does not utilize available funding to continue the program. of those receiving assistance, 270,000 are children and 108,000 are senior citizens. additionally, every wisconsin republican in congress voted earlier this year for the largest cut to the snap program in history. previous next website-search