skip to content senator baldwin facebook senator baldwin bluesky senator baldwin twitter senator baldwin instagram senator baldwin youtube get e-news updates news press releases published: 11.20.2025 baldwin backs bill to reverse republicans’ historic cuts to snap donald trump’s ‘one big beautiful bill’ projected to kick 2.4 million americans off food assistance and cut nearly $200 billion over next decade washington, d.c. – today, u.s. senator tammy baldwin (d-wi) joined the entire democratic caucus in introducing the restoring food security for american families and farmers act of 2025 to repeal republicans’ historic cuts to the supplemental nutrition assistance program (snap) in donald trump’s big, ugly budget bill. republicans’ signature budget bill is projected to cut snap by $187 million over the next decade and take away food assistance from 2.4 million americans. “donald trump’s ‘big, ugly bill’ made the largest cut to nutrition programs in history so that billionaires and big corporations could get a tax break, while leaving working families out to dry,” said senator baldwin. “as wisconsin families are watching the price of everything skyrocket, food assistance like foodshare is a lifeline that we need to protect and expand, not undercut so the rich can get richer. if republicans are serious about bringing costs down for families, let’s start by reversing their historic cuts to programs that keep food on the table for millions of americans.” republicans’ budget bill makes the largest cut in history to our nation’s premier food assistance program. their bill also creates a massive unfunded mandate on state governments that could force deep cuts or even eliminate snap entirely. nearly 1,500 national, state, and community-based organizations joined a letter voicing support for senate democrats’ effort to restore this food assistance. snap is a lifeline for over 42 million americans, including 16 million children, 8 million seniors, 4 million people with disabilities, and 1.2 million veterans. in wisconsin, nearly 700,000 people rely on snap benefits, including more than 108,000 seniors and 270,000 children across the state. during the government shutdown, senator baldwin supported legislation that prevents the trump administration from illegally withholding available funds for snap and the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children (wic). senator baldwin also pushed president trump to uphold a court ruling ordering the administration to use emergency funds to pay out full benefits for snap beneficiaries in november as the shutdown threatened to interrupt these vital services. full text of this legislation is available here . ### previous next website-search