Hagerty Introduces Trump’s Qualified Nominees to beTVA Board Directors
October 22, 2025
WASHINGTON—
Today, United States Senator Bill Hagerty (R-TN) introduced Mitch Graves and Jeff Hagood, President Donald Trump’s nominees to be Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), at the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee nomination hearing.
*Click the photo above or
here
to watch*
Remarks as prepared for delivery:
Chairman Capito and Ranking Member Whitehouse, thank you for holding this important nominations hearing today.
My home state of Tennessee is dependent on the Tennessee Valley Authority for all our energy supply. While TVA touches a number of other states in the valley, Tennessee has one option for our vital energy needs—the TVA.
It is my honor to introduce two outstanding Tennesseans, Mitch Graves and Jeff Hagood, who have been nominated by President Trump to serve on the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority.
Both men bring decades of leadership experience in business, management, and community service. Their proven record of results makes them exceptionally well-qualified to help guide TVA at this critical moment in our nation’s energy future.
I would also like to recognize Randy Jones and Art Graham, who, while not from my home state, bring valuable expertise and perspective that—if confirmed—will help advance the Valley’s vision for cheap, reliable energy, regional growth, and technological innovation in the years ahead.
But this hearing is about more than the four nominees sitting in front of you—it is about the future of American energy dominance and the transformative role TVA will play in securing it.
The Tennessee Valley Authority is uniquely positioned to lead America’s nuclear energy revival and shape the direction of our country’s power generation for the next century. We have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to ensure American energy independence and technological dominance.
The 21st century economy will be powered by artificial intelligence, quantum computing, and advanced manufacturing—all of which demand vast amounts of reliable baseload power.
The ability to generate that power is critical to ensuring that the United States continues to be the global leader. And let me be clear, failure in this endeavor is not an option. Nuclear energy is in Tennessee’s DNA, and nuclear energy is the solution that can meet our future needs at scale.
TVA is already leading the way. It holds the nation’s only early site permit for a Small Modular Reactor, making it the clear frontrunner in America’s nuclear resurgence. SMRs are safer, more efficient, and more replicable than traditional reactors—it’s time to deliver.
Unfortunately, TVA’s potential has too often been constrained by bureaucracy and a lack of vision. For too long, the board prioritized process over progress and metrics over mission.
But today, we have an opportunity to change that—to empower new leadership that will cut through the red tape and move TVA forward with renewed purpose.
The Trump Administration’s decisive action to bring fresh leadership to TVA ensures that we can confirm board members who understand the urgency of this moment—leaders who will champion innovation, job creation, and energy independence.
Mitch Graves and Jeff Hagood understand the responsibility before them. They recognize that TVA’s role in deploying advanced nuclear technologies is central not just to Tennessee’s prosperity, but to America’s national security and global competitiveness.
I am confident that, under their leadership, TVA will act boldly—delivering a clear plan to make TVA the driving force in America’s energy and technology future.
If TVA succeeds, the United States will lead the world in reliable and scalable energy production. If it fails, we risk ceding that ground to adversaries like China. The stakes could not be higher.
This is America’s moment to lead—to enter a new era of energy innovation that powers our economy, strengthens our security, and secures a new American Golden Age.
I am proud to support these four qualified nominees to serve on the TVA Board of Directors, and I look forward to their swift confirmation.
###