[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 10 (Tuesday, January 19, 2016)]
[Senate]
[Pages S81-S82]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
FAST ACT
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I want to talk about something that was
overlooked late in the year as we passed the surface transportation
bill--the highway bill. It was called the Fix America's Surface
Transportation Act or the FAST Act. It wasn't very fast.
I am glad to see the President signed the law last month. It is one
of the things people understand they can't do for themselves--along
with defending the country--having a transportation system that works
and taking advantage of who we are as a nation, being strategically
located in as fine a place as you can be to do business, to create jobs
and opportunity all over the world.
The FAST Act in my State would provide $5 billion to Missouri over
the next 5 years to improve our roads, bridges, and rail system. That
is the amount of money we will send in over the next 5 years. We are
either slightly a donee State or slightly a donor State. We might be
better off if we kept all the money, but that is not what is happening
right now.
We are certainly better off if we know what the highway program looks
like for 5 years. An effective transportation plan is good for the
country, but it is particularly good where I live. If you look at any
map of the river structure of the country or any railroad map of the
country or any highway map of the country, a significant part of coming
together of all three of those--rail, water, and highways--all happens
right where we live.
Because we are the hub of the railway, highway, and water systems, it
is very important that we have a system that makes the most of that
where we live. When I had a chance to speak to the Missouri House of
Representatives in Jefferson City over the first week of the year, I
told the Missouri General Assembly that this is a competitive advantage
for us, but we need to make the most of it. When we had the highway
bill that we have had in the 5 years the Presiding Officer and I have
served in the Senate, nobody could rely on anything.
This is the first 5-year bill we have had in 17 years. But before
2009, we just ended a 4-year highway bill. Then, since 2009, we have
had 37 short-term extensions of the highway bill. So if there is
anything fast about the FAST Act, it certainly wasn't quickly getting
to a highway bill that works. The longest of those 37 extensions was 2
years. I think the second longest may have been 6 months. Not only is
that no way to build roads and bridges, but it is clearly no way for
legislators to have an idea in our home States of how to respond to
that plan. By the time you try to figure out how to respond to the
plan, how you can maximize it to the advantage of your State--my State
or anybody else's--and how we can maximize that plan to our advantage,
the plan is over with.
By the time you have a legislative session, look at the plan, the
State department of transportation analyzes it, and you start talking
about it, the 6-month extension of the highway bill is over--or even
the 2-year extension. There are all kinds of studies that indicate a
significant loss of what you can buy with the money you are spending if
the highway bill is 2 years or less. I think the discount is about 30
percent because people don't bid as competitively as they would bid to
be part of those projects. They are not willing to move people to where
a major project needs to occur. They cannot buy the equipment and plan
to depreciate it out. So you wind up paying a lot more than you would
have to pay. That is where we have been since 2009.
The States have been the place where they didn't have any way to
maximize a Federal program because the Federal program was gone before
they could really calculate how they could most take advantage of it.
So I hope that now we do one of the things that people really expect
the government to do--one of the reasons they pay the taxes and one of
the reasons the tax for transportation has always been pretty well
received. People think: OK, I pay a tax when I fill up my car with
gasoline, fill up my car with diesel, fill up my truck with diesel or
fill up my truck with fuel. When I do that, I pay a tax and then I use
the roads. So that seems fairer to people than most taxes, but we
haven't had a system that allowed us to make the most of that.
In our State, 22 percent of the major roads of Missouri are now
considered in poor condition. The American Society of Civil Engineers
gives us a C, and this is one of the areas where we would want to be an
A. If you are a C instead of an A, the average Missouri motorist pays
about $400 more a year in extra maintenance because we are trying to
maintain a system that has gotten into poor condition.
Some 44 percent of our highways are congested. Congestion costs
motorists a lot of money in just wasted fuel. You don't have to spend
much time around Washington in a car to realize how much time you can
waste in traffic, but we see that happening more and more all over the
country.
In our State we have more bridges than any other State, and they are
in among the worst conditions of the country, with 30 percent of our
bridges rated as structurally deficient or functionally obsolete. There
was just a TIGER grant awarded to replace the Champ Clark Bridge across
the Mississippi River, which I believe was built in 1919. If that
bridge has to be shut down before it can be replaced or would have been
shut down, the detour to get to where that bridge gets you is 75 or 80
miles driving around to where that bridge currently takes people.
We have many bridges in our State that are county bridges; they are
not State bridges. I have talked to county commissioners, and one of
their principal concerns is this: What about the fund that helps us
with our off-system bridges? Senator Casey and I created a fund to do
this in 2012. We added it to the 2012 highway bill. Since then, it has
provided about $775 million annually to States. Out of that State fund,
whenever you are part of the off-system road system, the State pays 85
percent of a bridge that the county otherwise in most cases wouldn't be
able to replace. We have one county that I think
[[Page S82]]
has 4,000 people and 40 bridges. That is a lot of bridges for 4,000
people to try to be responsible for. It is our smallest county, and
that is maybe a different debate, but they have 40 bridges. We have
many bridges in our State.
The county road-county bridge system has about 50 percent of all the
bridges we have in Missouri. The bridge system and the highway system
are critical to us if we want to compete. As the middle of the country
grows things and makes things, it is a great opportunity for us to get
things--not just onto the river system and onto the railway system--all
over the country and all other the world. Transportation really
matters.
The FAST Act--and I have a hard time saying the FAST Act without
thinking how slow the FAST Act really was in getting passed--creates
two freight-based programs that allows States to compete for funding
for major projects. In a world where we want to compete, we need to
figure out how we can compete more effectively. How do you get things
to places where they are made into products? How do you get things that
are grown and need to be shipped to places? How do you get them to
places in a better way? In the life of this bill, the State of Missouri
should receive about $150 million to look at those freight projects
because those projects and the effective use of how you get things to
places create jobs.
The Missouri Department of Transportation has already developed a
State freight plan to encourage strategies. Now this bill makes that
plan more of a reality.
The FAST Act also includes some help for our Nation's rail systems. I
had a bill, the Track, Railroad, and Infrastructure Network Act, that
when you are improving a railroad system, it allows you to have the
same kind of streamlining that we were recently able to provide for
highway construction. You don't get caught up on something that has to
be needlessly litigated for long periods of time when, in fact, what
you really need to be doing is getting that highway finished in the
highway part of this bill or have the expedited ability for these
issues to go to the top of the list and to get resolved so that people
can get the things they make where they want to get them. They can get
the things they buy quicker than they would get them otherwise. They
can get to work, they can get to school, and they can get to the
hospital when somebody is sick.
I mentioned that, particularly because we just had floods in our
State in the last few days. For a while, Interstate 70, Interstate 44,
and Interstate 55--all three--were closed. There was a time when two of
those were closed at the same time. They were closed for 24 to 36
hours, and it makes a difference in how people are able to live their
lives.
The Federal Permitting Improvement Act that I cosponsored was also
included in the bill. This is a piece of legislation that Senator
Portman and Senator McCaskill introduced. It will now allow better
coordination between the deadline setting for permitting decisions--the
same kind of thing for highways that we are also doing for railroads--
to make this important transportation system work.
Looking at the United States, Winston Churchill once said we were the
best located country in the world--an ocean on either side and
neighbors that we could deal with north and south. And the ability to
get anywhere would be another addition to that location advantage we
have.
The FAST Act includes two important provisions to give relief to
electricity providers. One is a law that creates emergency route
working groups for electricity and other things. If you have a vehicle
that needs to get from Oklahoma to Joplin, MO, after the tornado, you
don't have to get it especially permitted and authorized to come across
that State line in what has been declared an emergency.
The same thing would have happened in recent days in several places
in our State close to a border, close to the equipment they need. The
flood means there is an emergency. Now those vehicles can cross the
State line without having to have the special permission that needed to
be received in the past.
Secondly, the Grid Reliability Act that I introduced with my Missouri
colleague Senator McCaskill simply improves reliability. If you have
two conflicting Federal agencies--one saying you can only use that
plant so much of the time and another saying we have an electric
emergency--you have to use every facility you have to provide the
electricity that is needed, and that can now be done.
There are many committees of jurisdiction here. The commerce
committee that I am a member of is certainly the committee that is
focused on infrastructure, focused on ports and other things that I
haven't mentioned a lot but that are very important.
I have mentioned at other times on the floor of the Senate that this
is one of the great accomplishments of the first year of this Congress
that may easily go overlooked, but I can tell you that county officials
all over America and State legislative bodies all over America are
looking at this bill and figuring out how do we use this as a way to
move our transportation system into the 21st century, how do we use
this to help provide opportunity, and how do we use this to help
provide the kinds of jobs that provide the kind of pay that families
need to live on and to live the kinds of lives they would like to live.
I look forward to seeing this bill implemented. I think all of us
need to watch carefully to be sure that we are making the most of one
of the responsibilities of government. Defending the country and having
a transportation system that works are both things that individuals and
families can't do for themselves. I believe the FAST Act gives us a
better chance than we have had since 2009 to look at the future with a
greater degree of certainty and to work in an area that is critically
important for the country but even more important for Missouri and
others who live in the middle of these transportation networks, where
they come together.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Lankford). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
____________________