[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 10 (Tuesday, January 19, 2016)]
[Senate]
[Pages S80-S81]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
DRONES
Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, have you ever flown a drone? It used to be
that you had to fly helicopters or it used to be that you would fly
what we call unmanned aerial vehicles, the ones that have been so
helpful to us in the war against terror. That would usually be an Air
Force pilot. But now people can go to Best Buy or to Walgreens or to
the hobby shop and buy a drone this big. If it is an older model, it
would cost $100. If it is a newer model, it would cost $500. People can
have a lot of fun. As a matter of fact, I can't wait until they finish
development of the drones they are testing right now that I can sit on,
and then I can go from point A to point B and avoid the red lights and
the traffic jams and so forth.
Along with this new technology comes some, certainly, new challenges.
So as our commerce committee is approaching work on the FAA bill, the
Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization--otherwise, in a couple
of months that authorization law expires--we are going to have to
address the issue of drones because we have had now a number of near
misses of drones.
A study in December came out: 241 near misses. As a matter of fact,
the New York area airports clearly had the most with, in this study
period, 86, but my State of Florida had both Miami and Orlando with a
substantial number. At most of the major metropolitan area airports
across the entire country--Los Angeles, 39 near misses, and Chicago and
Boston; we can go over the entire country--there is a substantial
number.
Another report that came out just at the end of last year pointed out
that just in September there were 122 incidents and just in October
there were 137 incidents. If a seagull sucked into the jet engines of
US Airways could cause the complete loss of power so that Captain Sully
Sullenberger--since he couldn't get to an emergency landing in a
field--had to put it down in the Hudson River, and if a seagull with
flesh and blood and seagull bones and webbed feet sucked into the
engines can stall out a jet engine, we can imagine what a drone that
you buy at Best Buy this big made of plastic, but with metal parts such
as the camera, what that would do, and it is just a matter of time,
unless we take action.
[[Page S81]]
Now, I have a picture here. I would like to zero-in on this. This is
a drone, the size that I just showed with my arms, flying past a palm
tree in my State of Florida. But if that drone goes higher--higher than
the FAA limit right now of 400 feet--and gets into the flightpath of an
incoming airliner or one that is outbound, then we have a major
disaster on our hands.
We want creativity. We want inventiveness. This is a new technology
and it is great. Look at what we can do now with aerial photography so
we don't have to rent an airplane. Look, however, how it is being used.
Did my colleagues know drones are being used to go over a prison wall
and deliver contraband? How about the reverse: Getting messages out?
So, obviously, the government is going to have to get into it one way
or another.
Now, one thing that we could do with this technology is we could
require the software to be put in these drones that would prohibit it
from getting close to an airport. There is that kind of technology. I
suppose we could put the software in it that would prohibit it from
getting above a certain altitude. But the question is this: When
somebody breaks those limits, how do we go about identifying them?
Should there be some kind of registration number? Should there, in
fact, even be licensure? We probably don't have to worry about
commercial uses such as aerial photography because those users are
going to be very careful. However, for the hobbyist or the kid who can
now go and purchase a drone, we see the probabilities of an accident
waiting to happen.
Now, I don't have the answer. But in the next two months, as we are
getting ready on the FAA bill, we are going to have to come up with
some answers.
So I raise this issue for the Senate. It is a real problem. We have
to face it. We have to address it. We have to prevent these kinds of
terrible accidents that can occur if we do nothing.
I intend to do something on the commerce committee.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
____________________