curtis and merkley work to codify taiwan six assurances washington, d.c. — today, u.s. senators john curtis (r-ut) and jeff merkley (d-or) introduced the six assurances to taiwan act , a bipartisan bill to formally codify the six assurances as foundational u.s. policy toward taiwan, reinforce congressional oversight, and prevent any unilateral change in america’s longstanding position without legislative review. the six assurances, originally conveyed by the reagan administration to taiwan, are six key foreign policy commitments that have underpinned the u.s.-taiwan relationship for nearly half a century. this bill gives those assurances the full force of law for the first time and ensures that any attempt to change them must first be reviewed by congress. “the six assurances have been a cornerstone of u.s.–taiwan policy since president reagan first outlined them in 1982,” said senator curtis . “my bill simply codifies these longstanding commitments, so they carry the full weight of law. as beijing escalates its pressure campaign, this is about clarity, deterrence, and showing taiwan that america’s support is principled, bipartisan, and enduring.” “republicans and democrats agree that the united states must reinforce our long-standing support for taiwan,” said senator merkley . “our bipartisan bill codifies a cornerstone of u.s. policy toward taiwan—ensuring no administration can back away from this commitment behind closed doors—and sends the strong message that members of congress from both sides of the aisle will not stand for any efforts that undermine this essential partnership.” background: the six assurances, reaffirmed by both republican and democratic administrations, are as follows: the u.s. has not agreed to set a date for ending arms sales to taiwan. the u.s. has not agreed to consult with the prc on arms sales to taiwan. the u.s. will not play a mediation role between taiwan and the prc. the u.s. has not agreed to revise the taiwan relations act. the u.s. has not altered its position on the issue of taiwan sovereignty. the u.s. will not pressure taiwan to enter into negotiations with the prc. the six assurances to taiwan act strengthens these principles by making them u.s. law and requiring: congressional notification and review : before any u.s. administration can take action to alter arms sales, revise longstanding policy, or pressure taiwan into negotiations, it must notify congress and provide a full justification. legislative oversight period : no such action may proceed until congress has had up to 60 days to review and potentially block it through a joint resolution of disapproval. stabilizing policy declaration : it reaffirms that maintaining the six assurances is in the national, economic, and security interest of the united states and contributes to peace in the indo-pacific. for complete bill text, click here . companion legislation was introduced in the house of representatives earlier this year by representatives raja krishnamoorthi (d-il), gregory meeks (d-ny), greg stanton (d-az), young kim (r-ca), zach nunn (r-ia), and nicole malliotakis (r-ny)