curtis, cantwell introduce bipartisan legislation to supercharge u.s. fusion manufacturing washington, d.c. – u.s. senators john curtis (r-ut) and maria cantwell (d-wa) today introduced the fusion advanced manufacturing parity act , innovative bipartisan legislation to strengthen american competitiveness in fusion energy and secure domestic supply chains fusion components. companion legislation has been introduced in the house by reps. carol miller (r-wv), suzan delbene (d-wa), claudia tenney (r-ny), and don beyer (d-va). the bill enables critical fusion energy technologies to access the federal advanced manufacturing production credit (section 45x) to include critical fusion energy technologies, providing a 25% production tax credit for qualifying components. by doing so, it aligns federal tax incentives with the realities of next-generation energy innovation and helps ensure that the united states lead the way in commercializing fusion energy. “fusion energy represents the kind of bold, american innovation that built the west and can power our future,” said senator curtis . “this bill ensures we’re not just competing in the fusion race, we’re winning it by manufacturing these critical components here at home, creating good-paying jobs, and securing our energy independence for the next century.” “the state of washington is the world’s leading hub for fusion energy, which could one day soon could provide vast amounts of the type of power we need to keep electricity prices down and increase america’s economic competitiveness,” said senator cantwell . “providing tax incentives for fusion components will help ensure that the fusion supply chain will also be manufactured and create jobs in the pacific northwest.” key provisions of the fusion advanced manufacturing parity act: extends the 45x tax credit : adds a 25% production tax credit for domestically manufactured fusion energy components. broad definition of eligible components : covers a wide array of components that benefit the entire fusion industry including superconducting magnets, plasma vacuum vessels, high-voltage capacitors, fusion heating systems, and more. critical mineral expansion : updates the federal critical mineral list to include fusion-relevant materials such as deuterium, tritium, helium-3, lithium compounds, tungsten, and vanadium. fusion energy offers the promise of abundant, zero-carbon electricity. commercializing this potential will require not only scientific breakthroughs, but also a robust domestic manufacturing base to build the advanced systems fusion requires. the fusion advanced manufacturing parity act is the latest in a series of bipartisan efforts to align u.s. energy policy with innovation and industrial leadership. by strengthening domestic supply chains and boosting private investment, the legislation helps ensure that fusion becomes a reality—made in america, by americans. the bill is supported by leaders in the fusion industry, advanced manufacturing sectors, and national security experts who recognize the importance of energy independence and supply chain resilience in an increasingly competitive world. bill text can be found here . a one-pager can be found here . additional reading: politico morning energy: bipartisan effort to infuse fusion with tax credits