of course, a good question. good. justin farid is the third generation cattle rancher, business man, and a santa barbara native who grew up building a small business with his family. he is running for congress to bring what he says is a true voice for the central coast to washington dc and to get congress working again through the new leadership and 21st century solutions. one big clap for. thank you so much. i apologize. i need to advance. i am having a question. i have a cup there. okay. all right. we are going to have opening remarks from each of the candidates. you have one minute to tell us a little bit about yourself and why you are running for us. justin, you go first, please. well, kristen, i am kristen, the felita chamber. i cannot tell you how grateful i am to have the opportunity to be here to address everyone in this room. i am a proud homeowner here in felita. it was born in race with santa barbara. there was organizations like this that helped our family build a business to take a vision and turn it into reality. it was the hard work to grind the effort, the ingenuity, the innovation that got us to where we are today. you know, manufacturing here locally and distributing now. national building this business from scratch and out of our garage. i am proud to have had the background and entrepreneurship and that being the backbone of my family and my life. it is that same type of mentality that i am working to bring forward to the united states congress to get congress work and to get for the american people for the future of this country. look forward to continuing this discussion. thank you. very good. so look, i am thinking of opening remarks. thank you, keith, and thank you, kristen and the felita chamber for this opportunity. as you read, i am a son of a working family, working class family. my father was a minor, then a farm worker. i am proud to have been the first in my family to go to a four-year university, work my way through college. i am proud to have had a long public service record, starting with my years in the united states marine corps. and my years, my past 12 years, working in the county government. i am proud of having worked in a white partisan way to achieve many solutions to the problems our community has faced. we have the highest rainy day reserved in the county's history. the highest bond credit rating in the state of california. we have invested $100 million over the next 10 years in our infrastructure. we have given, we have provided health insurance to many needy children here in our county. i am proud of that bipartisan record. i know what it is like to struggle from my own personal story. i want to go to congress to make sure that every working middle class family has the same opportunities. thank you, sir. we are going to have three questions, a four-manager you have used to by now. gentlemen, for the first all three questions, you will have two minutes for your response and watch your coordinate there for your two is to win the stop. question number one, we are back to water again. every one of you needs to be asked about physical start with water. california, as you know, as a state mandates water reduction of water consumption. it is resulted in higher rates and water rights taken from some property owners. let us start with saloon when asked if you, what can you do with here in washington to help this region's water problem from back there in the nation's capital? thank you. well, the most important thing washington can do is really to provide incentives so that local jurisdictions can work together. perfayers, we are all fragmented as a perfayer community throughout the central coast and throughout the state. we need to be able to come together to put together water security plans. water security plans that address conservation that provide for reuse and recycle more effectively, that provide for recharge and that look at decolonization in a regional way. but right now, some forms of government are not part of that solution because they are not perfayers. but what we need to do is spur that collaborative discussion amongst all perfayers to come up with such a plan. the federal government could also provide funding for the infrastructure to make sure that communities are incentivized and provided the resources so they could bring about better facilities to address this water crisis. this water crisis is a result of climate change and i will do everything possible in washington to make sure that we bring the resources to the central coast and that we are doing everything possible to address climate change. thank you very much, justin, two minutes. thank you. do you read in your introduction of me? my number one goal is to be a servant leader for the folks here on the central coast to washington dc. and therefore, this has been my number one issue through the corsus and the entire campaign. where we are today is a lack of foresight from passing current politicians and investment directly in infrastructure and things that yield a return for taxpayers. as somebody grew up in the private sector building a business, it is necessary that we make investments in things that actually yield a return that do not raise rates and fees on families around the central coast because that adversely affects our bottom line. we need solutions and solutions means we need water. we need to make investments in 21st century technologies like desalination, water treatment facilities, and increasing capacity and reservoirs in the long term so that during white years we have the ability to store water. we need a long range of water policy in california and on the central coast. it is my goal to be steer to the transportation infrastructure to the midi and specifically the subcommittee on water and the environment. through this we will be able to move forward to streamline the process of public and private partnerships, to leverage that to ensure that we do get those investments. that is my passion. we need to do is we need long-range solutions for water. it will help all the folks who spoke here before and something that i will work to do my first year as your representative. thank you. in the second question which will be business and economic development related to us and we will leave with you. all over the state it is no great surprise that people in business who have to do with government to learn that businesses are leaving california at an alarming rate and are taking high quality employees, young and experienced. this is a very heavy burden that is placed upon business people. i love your passion. i want to have a call. no, i am passionate. i seek to have any businesses struggle. we feel that every single day is that business people here on the central coast come in and firstly affects the job climate here on the central coast for the stargabons, the north visionaries. those that are graduating from college that are looking to manifest the vision that they created to people like yourself in this room who have worked to build a model here in california that employs people like creates jobs that improves the economic vitality of the area. it is difficult when you have regulatory arms and unelected bureaucrats that are imposing and essentially legislating from the federal level. there are policies that adversely affect the business community and our economic vitality. that is why it is necessary for congress to get working again for the american people and doing their duty and their job and the responsibility of legislating, get back to governing, rein in the regulatory burdens from the executive branch that are adversely affecting small businesses throughout our community to create more economic growth, more jobs, more revenue moving forward. we want to happen to sunset mandates to bring forward policies that were created in the past to be reviewed back before congress. once again, to separate the bathroom and go to see what is working, what is not working on the economic impassure support policies like the reigns act where if there is any regulation that is issued out that has potential economic impact of over $100 million on our community, it has to come before congress up and down. it is important that we have people that are connected to folks that are being adversely affected by these regulations to have that voice for us in the united states congress once again so that we can improve the policies that are affecting us, not unelected bureaucrats. salute to 10 scariest words in english language are i am from the federal government and i am here to help. does there anything you think you could do back in washington? let me start, let me start keep by reminding you that we are still the golden state and we are the sex largest economy in the world and many people still desire to come to the central coast because we are a very special community. small businesses are the backbone of our economy. everybody knows that and the best thing the federal government can do is make sure that small businesses have access more access to capital so that our businesses could flourish and create more jobs. we need to make sure that we are providing tax relief to small businesses so that they can better prosper in our community. we need to make sure that we are investing the federal government to invest with the state of california local communities like ours to make sure that broadband continues to flourish in our area to help our economic engines. we need to make sure that we are also investing in new employment sectors such as renewable energy and employment sectors to make sure that we transition to renewable energy economy and that we train those fossil fuel employees that are going to come to the eu. more importantly, we need to make sure that we are providing grant resources to the two most important universities in our area, ucsb and cal poly. we need to make sure that they are getting the support so they can continue to flourish and turn out a skilled educated workforce so that our businesses could flourish locally and have that employment pool that they so depend on. that is what the federal government could do for our area. thank you, sir. speaking of federal government will be our last question and this again is a two-minute response. so we will go first. i have a lobbyist friend in washington that says that city is 535 bulls in search of a china shop. i think you look at the house and the senate. there is dysfunction back there. can you do anything as a freshman member of congress to maybe help break the gridlock and eliminate dysfunction? and how would you go about it? thank you very much. first of all, i have never worked in washington. but let me tell you what i have done. locally in my service in county government, i have been able to work across the aisle. again, we have done some really great things in a bipartisan way. the highest rainy day we have invested in our infrastructure. we have provided health care to children. we have developed a true and c program in a bipartisan way with our schools, the district attorney. we went from 4,000 to 2,000 children to less than 50 needing an intervention. i have a track record of working across the aisle developing those relationships to get things done. and i hope to be able to go to washington to do the same thing that i have done in my public service in a county government to achieve that common ground and the relationships you need to forge to collaborate on legislation. so that we move the ball forward and we do not focus on party, but we focus on how to bring about solutions for the american people, for our country, to get beyond this partisanship that we have all come to be tested. thank you. justin, if you agree with the premise that there is a gridlock and dysfunction back there, what could you do about a freshman member of congress? this ultimately is the reason why i decided to run for congress. i did serve in washington dc under a senior member of congress. there is my responsibility to observe and assess how public policy was adversely affecting our country and circumstances. what i found is that there is a lot of empty rhetoric. there is a zero sum game of water takeoff between either political party and the biggest losers in this equation is the rest of this country and the future of this country. it is just as bad as you think. do you say that working across the aisle and nonpartisan board supervisors of five gives you credentials to a servant body that has 535 members is kind of not even my opinion. what you have is a number of folks that are more concerned about their next election and the other policies that affect the rest of this country. we need a congress that works for us. we need to reform it systemically. the baseline there is the budget. the second biggest priority outside of representing constituency is the budget. the budget is the budget. you oversight and management of taxpayer dollars and how those dollars are being spent. we need to approve on this. the leader has a buy-in-your-budget system, a material budget system. this is something that we should implement in congress to provide better oversight and management and create a greater discourse and debate on how those dollars are being spent. we ensure that people are actually yielding a return on those dollars. it will actually improve the discourse and reduce the partisanship. we need to move to a single subject rule in congress so that every single policy that is ever voted on is only relative to that one. we ensure that we mitigate the politics that is associated with the policy and get back to governing. these are policies that need to be implemented into the institution of congress to get it working again for the american people for the future of this country. it will strengthen the institution and give us voices that will work for us. thank you very much. it is a wrap-up time for each of you. you have one quick minute again to wrap-up. just so we are going to have you give your closing comments. what do you want the crowd to hear? again, i appreciate the opportunity to be here today. i am honored and grateful. i am humbled by the opportunity to have the responsibility on my shoulders to represent all of you in the united states congress. this election is going to be the most important election that we have had here on the central coast in over two decades. it will determine the future of governance not only here on the central coast but in the united states congress. given what has happened, we have to take it. what we need more than anything is a functional congress that is working for the american people again today. that is my goal and my focus is to get that body working for us about we can create a leaner, more efficient, more effective institution for the american people that create economic growth and more jobs for the future to make investments that yield a return for tax-corp payers here and now and for the future. i am very much focused on doing what is right for us on the central coast. it has never been about whether it be blue to me. this is about making a difference in a positive impact. thank you and god bless all of you. thank you, chester. thank you very much. well, i really appreciate it going up and down on the central coast and meeting with residents from all walks of life and hearing what is important to them. i hope to be able to earn their trust and their vote so that i can represent them on congress. i think when you look at my service, you have a track record of getting things done. you have a track record of working in a bipartisan way. i think that also reflect is reflective in my endorsements. the entire city council for the city of belida has endorsed me. republicans and democrats have endorsed me. i hope to be able to continue traversing the central coast in the remaining weeks listening what is important to them. working hard to be accessible, to be good listener, and to provide great constituent service once i am elected to represent democrats. thank you so much. and a full round of applause for that.