all right. good afternoon, everyone. i want to start by thanking you for being here today, especially those that will be speaking with me from the podium. today we have linda crop, chief counsel for the environmental defense center. michael lyons, president of get oil out. katie davis, chair of the santa barbara sierra club. and michael cohen, president of the santa barbara adventure company. thank you all for taking the time. this afternoon to voice your concern on behalf of our environment and your commitment to protecting our oceans. i undoubtedly represent one of the most beautiful and ecologically diverse districts in congress. we are also lucky to live under central coast and to have this wonderful ocean as our backyard. with this incredible privilege, we must also remember that we have an even greater responsibility. to serve as stewards of these wonderful natural resources. and with that great responsibility in mind, i am pleased to announce that i am introducing my first piece of legislation in congress this monday called the california clean coast act. this legislation would permanently ban future oil and gas leasing and drilling off the coast of california in the outer continental shelf. we have seen time and time again, the devastating environmental, economic threats posed by offshore oil drilling. today marks the anniversary of the horrific 1969 oil spill off our santa barbara coast, in which over 100,000 barrels of crude oil were spilled into our waters, wreaking havoc on our ocean's ecosystem and tourism industry. in california, our coastal communities, local economies and fragile ocean ecosystem cannot afford another disastrous oil spill. this is why i am committed to reducing our dependence on fossil fuels and the great risk oil drilling off our coasts presents to our environment. this legislation is one important step toward a cleaner, more sustainable energy future for our country and our central coast. we are entering a new and uncertain time in our nation's history. we now have a president that does not subscribe to fact-based information, including the irrefutable scientific data regarding the devastating impact of our country. this is the impact of climate change. with his executive orders encouraging the construction of two major oil pipelines in our country and his pick of exxon's former ceo as secretary of state, it is clear that our president's priorities do not align with our central coasts. this is why we are using our energy economy to shift our energy policy to combat the devastating effects of climate change. this is why it is critical, not more than ever, that we pass this legislation to protect our coastal environment from further oil drilling. this is why we are using our energy economy to protect our country and preserve its beauty and vibrancy for future generations. today we are reminded that we must learn from our history as we remember the devastating impacts of our reliance on fossil fuels. we must act boldly beginning today if we are going to fight the impacts of climate change. we must use my friend and a tireless champion for our environment. linda crop with the environmental defense center. thank you. it is wonderful to see so many people out here on such a beautiful day. just a big little louder. thank you. we are living in a whole new reality show. i wish you was funny. there are no limits to the current threats from the federal administration to our environment, our communities and our economy, which all rely on healthy air and water and a clean ocean. we use the ocean for food, for recreation, for tourism, and for sustaining the precious resources that have led the santa barbara channel in islands to be referred to as the glopigos of north america. but all of this is under immediate and imminent threat. fortunately, we have a congressman who understands the value of our coast and ocean and is taking action to protect us from these new threats. these threats are very, very real. not only do we stand on the site of the 1969 santa barbara oil spill, which had devastating effects to our community and environment and fishing and tourism economies, but we just had a major oil spill only a year and a half ago. we know that it is not a question of if, but when we have an oil spill and that is why we need to take action now. this threat is greater than ever because we do have a president that can open our coast to more oil leasing and drilling. and that is why we stand here to support the california clean coast act, which would permanently ban future oil and gas leasing off the california coast. next, we have another champion of the environment, katie davis, group chair for the santa barbara sierra club. so a marine biologist friend of mine who has dived all over the world. she says one of her favorite places, one of the places with the most unique and special and amazing marine life, and the favorite place to dive is right here in the santa barbara channel. it is unique. and one of the best places to dive and snorkel offshore in the central coast was rufuio beach. i say, you know, it had these, it had these kelp forests and these rocky reefs. and i say had because it was devastated by the place pipeline oil spill. it was one of the best places in central california, maybe all of california, and it was devastated by an oil spill. it is our ocean and our coastline that makes santa barbara so special. the risk of another oil spill is unacceptable. we have had enough. the inevitable risk of spills is why we have not allowed new offshore oil leases off california for so long, and this needs to be codified in federal law as it has long been for state waters. we thank congressman carbohol for his leadership. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. by putting forward the california clean coast act as his first act, to send the strongest possible message that new offshore oil leases are unacceptable, and we are willing to fight. yes! yay! yay! yay! and one last thing. we have more support on this than you think. i am a member of sierra club's national marine action team, a group of coastal activists from all around the country. when the obama administration proposed drilling in the atlantic ocean, there was an outcry, and not just the liberal northeast, but the southeast as well, north carolina. south carolina. georgia. florida. these are red states. but 90% of coastal cities passed resolutions against offshore drilling and size protesting. it is bad for coastal business everywhere. after more, did 3.3 million, 3.3 million public comments, at 36 public meetings. the recent five-year lease plan excludes drilling in the pacific ocean, the arctic ocean, and the atlantic ocean. it would be an incredible waste of public resources for the trump administration to reopen that process, and a bad move politically. it would be the smarter move to pass this act. yay! yay! yay! yay! ask any coastal city anywhere. do not mess with our beaches. thank you! yay! yay! yay! yay! next, we have michael ryan's president of get oil out. we all know who get oil out is, right? yeah! yay! yay! yay! yay! yay! yay! two score, and eight years ago, to this day, america and the world was really awakened to the fact that our petroleum-based lifestyles are not enjoyed without consequence. this consequence being the swift degradation of our environment. and finally, after the 69th spill, get oil out was formed by santa barbara citizens, affected by the oil disaster. and nationally, the oil spill sparked an environmental movement, along with new federal. the oil spill sparked an environmental movement, along with new federal and state legislation, aiming to prevent and reduce the threat of similar... ...disastrous environmental consequences from occurring again. today, january 28, 2017, we, america and the world, continue to enjoy petroleum-based lifestyles, whether by choice or circumstance. we still, america still, and the world still, face the same consequences that oil spills wreaking havoc to our ocean and coastal environments. however, there exists an important and obvious difference today from 48 years ago. we now have 48 years of history. a 48-year historical pattern tells us that the threat of another oil spill resulting from petroleum production, along our coastline, is imminent, no matter what safeguards are thought to be in place. oil spills in santa barbara, alaska, the gulf of mexico, and once again in santa barbara, to name a few, demonstrate a historical pattern of consequences resulting from oil production. even with the most expensive and proven modern-day technology and engineering know-how, the eminent threat still exists today. as such, git oil out firmly supports congressman carbohol's california clean coastal act that will get oil out by putting it into the historically imminent consequences of future oil development on the outer continental shelf of our priceless coastline. thank you, michael. now we have michael cohen, owner of the santa barbara adventure company. hello everyone. such a wonderful crowd and all these smiling faces. i am so glad to see you all here. my name is michael cohen. i started my journey of building a small business 18 years ago with a handful of kayaks and old rusted-out pickup truck and a passion for connecting this beautiful coastline with so many tourists and travelers that come here. last year we hosted over 13,000 visitors on our tours. tours that are dependent on a beautiful coastline and ocean, kayaking at rufuio state beach, the santa barbara harbor, the seekage kayaking, and our beautiful channel islands behind us. what a backdrop i have for this speech. we also provide out to our education programs to schools as well as many other groups that come to the area. how important is tourism and a clean environment to all of us, to our economy here? well, i have some facts for you. and these are not all-turning facts, okay? work with me on this one. 6.1 million visitors came to santa barbara in 2016 because of our pristine beaches and healthy lifestyle. last year, tourism-related spending was, i am not making this up, 1.54 billion dollars in related spending in santa barbara county. that is 1.54 billion dollars that got spent here because of this clean and beautiful environment. 850 million dollars were spent on hotels and lodging. 45.8 million dollars in revenue taxes were given to our city and county because of a clean environment. the need to protect this area that we are so lucky to share with others in this every day is of critical importance. as a business that is tied to this local tourism economy, i am 100% dependent on a clean and beautiful and thriving environment made possible through a green and clean economy. i started my business at rufuio state beach. i ran my first tour there. we felt firsthand the devastating effects in our own backyard and the effects to our business in that recent oil spill at rufuio. it is impact was appalling environmentally and economically it hurt us. let us not increase those odds by allowing more oil leases. i remain fearful of potential threats that further drilling will hold and reliance on fossil fuels. i have witnessed how the oil company that was responsible for the rufuio oil spill dealt with businesses like myself. they delay, they deny, they pay pennies on the dollars all the while trying to say that they are here to make it right. that is just not true. take a moment, take a moment and think of what our coast would look like after a spill the size of deep water horizon, the catastrophe in the gulf of mexico. that spill lasted 87 days. it dumped 200 million gallons of oil and it affected 16,000 miles of coastline, devastation to that area. there are, we do not need more oil in this area. there are more off-shore rigs than necessary here. we need to move to green energy such as solar, such as wind. there is a project in the mohamie desert called the desert sunlight that produces energy for 160,000 homes. with that, i will close and say that i support salud carbohal's measure very strongly. please help keep our area and support this act. and closing limits just say, what a great side you are for sore eyes. i am so energized by you all being here and more than ever we have to be vigilant and we have to be active. we know what is at stake and we have to speak up and i want to in particular recognize indivisible santa barbara. we have to organize and we have to speak out. there is too much at stake. thank you all for coming and i want to open it up to the media for questions. i was here 48 years ago. i was disgusted that lots of efforts were made to cover up this bill with fresh sand so our president did not have to take a look at it. we did not have eight platforms out on the horizon at that time. we are at risk right now. we do not need to even look to the future that we must unless we are going to want our whole horizon line with those likely things. thank you for your hard work. we just love you. we stand on shoulders of people that have come before us and i would be remiss if i did not recognize two people. one congresswoman lowest cap. we are continuously and consistently fighting the good fight on this very important issue. the other person is my personal mentor naomi schwartz. we stand on their shoulders among many other people that have always been great advocates and champions for environmental protection. any other questions? yes. we are totally flogging for introducing this legislation in congress. the combination of rex tillerson, ceo of exxonmobil and trump secretary of state along with rick perry as a secretary of energy, creates a massive influence by oil and gas companies and economic and national security policies in our country. can you say no to trump's swamp cabinet please for us? i wish i had a say but the senate is the one that makes those confirmations. i will say no every chance i get. any other questions? the media? nick shaw, he does not want to ask his questions in front of you. i understand that we do not need more oil drilling but probably everybody here grows here in a car. rotobike! we grow so close. i am tuned into that. what i am wondering is is there any future legislation that you can think of or who you will propose for alternate? absolutely. i think we need to look at how the united states could invest more in creating incentives to propel more technology in the solar field, in the wave energy, in wind energy so that we could have those sources come to life sooner rather than later. we can also look at taking away the subsidies for oil companies. yeah! we have talked about limited resources. we have got to look at where they are going and certainly the oil companies do not need additional resources. all right, i am being told that is it. thank you all for your time. thank you.