herman defazio and welcome to both of you, former colleague waltz and mayor garcetti who i had the privilege of serving with on president obama's climate action task force. i come from local government. i served as a county supervisor for many years. so i come with that perspective. mayor garcetti, as you know, 45% of the nation's transportation infrastructure is owned by local governments. today in santa barbara county, in my district, we have a pavement condition index of 57 out of 100. and in santa louis, the bist book county, which is the other major part of my district, it is 64 pci. just a decade ago, the pci in santa barbara county was 70. but i know we are not alone in this accelerated degradation of our infrastructure in our roads. local governments across the nation experienced this same challenge and will continue to experience it in the future. how can we better partner with local governments to maintain a good state of repair of our nation's infrastructure? one, and two, what are the advantages and disadvantages of creating a dedicated funding source to directly allocate resources to local governments for the improvement in maintenance of local roads and bridge infrastructure in america? and i ask that from your services, a local elected official, more than anything. absolutely. let me start with the second one. i am great to see you, congressman, and thank you for your amazing service here to the country and to california. you know, it always drove me crazy. i worked now with chairman waters when cdbg grant dollars went out there. that is federal dollars, but always said thanks to the councilman blank and mayor blank. and we changed in los angeles policy, so it actually thanks the member of congress now, because those funds come from all of you. they come from the american people first, but you enable them. and i think, you know, the idea of this road funded by the federal government, and it is a road that people are going to use 90% of the time more than an interstate highway, is a beautiful idea, and one that would be embraced, and one that there should be some sort of leverage to encourage local governments. accelerator for america, the 501-c3 that i mentioned, we are on the ground helping folks from florida, to ohio, texas, washington, pass, local infrastructure packages on transportation. at least half of that is always for road paving. so we are stepping up to do that, and we would love to see federal government, because that network does not work if we do not have the feeder, first mile, last mile, roads into there, and i think there is always been the strange disconnect. why is that not federal? and why vice versa, do we have no responsibilities for the highways that go straight through our cities, where we could put cleaning crews, we could help folks there, we could take care of graffiti. it is kind of like, do not touch that, that is either state or federal, local government does that stuff over there. so i think we would be very interested in dedicated funding resource that came to local governments, and it would be spent well, we know how to do that, and i know my number two, because we went down every year until we were 61 when i became mayor. now we are at 68 for the first time in decades, we are going up. we have paved enough to go halfway around the world, i have got four years left, i said i want to pave the equivalent of a street all the way around the world by the time i leave as mayor. so i think that that would be very well received, and then how we can do this together, it is going to be very important for i think cities to be at the table and state. some cities are the size of states, but for us to have that in writing this together, and the chairman's been really wonderful in inviting us to be a part of that through the national league of cities and the us conference of mayors. but i think that we are going to need to see looking at streets not just as a place that you drive over them. there is people who, there is electric scooters now, there is people who walk on them, there is heat that comes off of them, there is water that goes through them, there is street trees that are important, there is curves that are important. that is a part of american infrastructure working. so we welcome the opportunity to help you co-write that, and really value your perspective as a former local official in making that happen. thank you, mayor. to conclude, i wanted to ask if you feel that the federal government incentivizes or recognizes self-help municipalities who have taxed themselves and gone out on a limb, residents have identified these types of measures as a top priority. does the federal government in your opinion recognize that enough? i can quote the governor, he said, no, we punish that. it is quite the opposite, actually, where we step up, and i get it. there are certain places that cannot help themselves on things like water, but when people say, well, la is a rich town, you can do that. we give 24% poverty, it is actually a high poverty town too. poor people are voting to tax themselves to get this stuff done. so let us erase that. no, we get punished for it, not helped. we should get rewarded, not 100% because it cannot leave certain places behind, but there absolutely should be. the one place where there has been good, and i hope that we can, and the legislation, move forward, is new starts, because there is been kind of a walking away in the administration from new starts. it is critically important, and there is almost a punishment. well, you are already paying for it. if we want those subways to be open by the olympics in 2028, when we show america off to the world, we are going to need to continue that. we expect that. we budgeted that. we are always told that, but we need to ensure it. thank you, mayor. i yield back my time. thank you. we are moving.