now to an in-depth look at one of the candidates vying for lois caps' congressional seat, democratic candidate salud carbohal. he is taking on republican justin fareed. last night, we heard from the republican. tonight, news channel 3's elise martinez sits down with carbohal, who thinks he is the right choice. for the past 12 years, salud carbohal has served as first district supervisor in santa barbara county. i think my legacy is one that my office provided exemplary constituent service to all the residents of my district, whether they were emails, letters, phone calls, or meetings or visits to my office. he was born in mexico and came to this country with his family, working in the fields of oxnard. he graduated from ucsb and served as united states marine. and now he wants to take all of those experiences to washington. my number one concern is making sure that working middle class families here on the central coast have opportunities, economic opportunities that will help them advance and prosper. in addition to that, of course, addressing climate change and offshore oil development as well. we will talk more later. in tv ads, carbohal's opponent republican justin fareed says he will bring fresh ideas and fresh energy to congress. unlike my opponent, i should say, i have never worked in washington. but carbohal says he will be the one reaching across the aisles. i have worked in a bipartisan way with all my colleagues to accomplish quite a bit of public policy that brings about many solutions to the challenges our community has faced. for making sure we have the highest rainy day reserved in the county's history, to making sure that we balance our budget each and every year, that we have invested in our infrastructure, our roads and parks, and that we have provided for the safety net for our seniors, our children, the poor, the indigent in our communities, and i am very proud of that service. if elected, carbohal says he wants to get to work right away. in the first 100 days, obviously other than getting situated, i will be moving forward legislation to stop offshore oil development off our coast. i will also be looking at legislation to require background checks on all purchases of guns in our country and to make sure that we do everything possible to ban assault rifles for our communities. recently, carbohal found himself under fire after being overheard referring to lompoke as the armpit of santa barbara county. i have apologized and will apologize again. that comment certainly was taken out of context, but i have apologized for whatever context and mischaracterization that was provided. the supervisor says he has and always will be a strong advocate for lompoke. i am proud of my work for lompoke to provide resources for infrastructure, to make sure that the school's aquarium has the funding and needs, and i am also proud of having work to get resources for the veterans building. and when you are still out there, let you do it. you can do anything. whatever you want. grab them by the f***. republican presidential candidate donald trump sexually charged comments about women prompted and even deeper divide between the candidates, with carbohal calling on farid to denounce trump on twitter. when donald trump spoke out in degraded women time and time again, my opponent justin farid stood with him. when donald trump degraded gold star families and veterans, my opponent stood with him. when donald trump degraded mexican americans, we called him criminals. my opponent stood chest to chest with him. as voters mark their ballots, carbohal hopes he will be their choice. i am pro-choice and believe in women's reproductive rights. my opponent is pro-life and does not believe in women's reproductive rights. there is a real contrast in this election. and i think the voters are going to have an opportunity to vote somebody who represents central coast values in washington as their next representative. with just weeks to go before election day, salud carbohal says he will be campaigning down to the wire, making phone calls, knocking on doors and meeting with as many people as possible until november 8th. in santa barbara, i am elise martinez reporting.