[congressional record volume 162, number 10 (tuesday, january 19, 2016)] [senate] [pages s80-s81] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] drones mr. nelson. mr. president, have you ever flown a drone? it used to be that you had to fly helicopters or it used to be that you would fly what we call unmanned aerial vehicles, the ones that have been so helpful to us in the war against terror. that would usually be an air force pilot. but now people can go to best buy or to walgreens or to the hobby shop and buy a drone this big. if it is an older model, it would cost $100. if it is a newer model, it would cost $500. people can have a lot of fun. as a matter of fact, i cannot wait until they finish development of the drones they are testing right now that i can sit on, and then i can go from point a to point b and avoid the red lights and the traffic jams and so forth. along with this new technology comes some, certainly, new challenges. so as our commerce committee is approaching work on the faa bill, the federal aviation administration reauthorization--otherwise, in a couple of months that authorization law expires--we are going to have to address the issue of drones because we have had now a number of near misses of drones. a study in december came out: 241 near misses. as a matter of fact, the new york area airports clearly had the most with, in this study period, 86, but my state of florida had both miami and orlando with a substantial number. at most of the major metropolitan area airports across the entire country--los angeles, 39 near misses, and chicago and boston; we can go over the entire country--there is a substantial number. another report that came out just at the end of last year pointed out that just in september there were 122 incidents and just in october there were 137 incidents. if a seagull sucked into the jet engines of us airways could cause the complete loss of power so that captain sully sullenberger--since he could not get to an emergency landing in a field--had to put it down in the hudson river, and if a seagull with flesh and blood and seagull bones and webbed feet sucked into the engines can stall out a jet engine, we can imagine what a drone that you buy at best buy this big made of plastic, but with metal parts such as the camera, what that would do, and it is just a matter of time, unless we take action. [[page s81]] now, i have a picture here. i would like to zero-in on this. this is a drone, the size that i just showed with my arms, flying past a palm tree in my state of florida. but if that drone goes higher--higher than the faa limit right now of 400 feet--and gets into the flightpath of an incoming airliner or one that is outbound, then we have a major disaster on our hands. we want creativity. we want inventiveness. this is a new technology and it is great. look at what we can do now with aerial photography so we do not have to rent an airplane. look, however, how it is being used. did my colleagues know drones are being used to go over a prison wall and deliver contraband? how about the reverse: getting messages out? so, obviously, the government is going to have to get into it one way or another. now, one thing that we could do with this technology is we could require the software to be put in these drones that would prohibit it from getting close to an airport. there is that kind of technology. i suppose we could put the software in it that would prohibit it from getting above a certain altitude. but the question is this: when somebody breaks those limits, how do we go about identifying them? should there be some kind of registration number? should there, in fact, even be licensure? we probably do not have to worry about commercial uses such as aerial photography because those users are going to be very careful. however, for the hobbyist or the kid who can now go and purchase a drone, we see the probabilities of an accident waiting to happen. now, i do not have the answer. but in the next two months, as we are getting ready on the faa bill, we are going to have to come up with some answers. so i raise this issue for the senate. it is a real problem. we have to face it. we have to address it. we have to prevent these kinds of terrible accidents that can occur if we do nothing. i intend to do something on the commerce committee. i yield the floor. i suggest the absence of a quorum. the presiding officer. the clerk will call the roll. the senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll. mr. blunt. mr. president, i ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered. ____________________