[congressional record volume 162, number 12 (thursday, january 21, 2016)] [senate] [pages s153-s154] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] authorization for military force mr. murphy. madam president, today i have come to the floor to speak very briefly about a resolution that the majority leader introduced, i believe, yesterday. this is an authorization for military force that apparently purports to give the president legal authority to conduct military operations against isis. before we break for the weekend, i thought it was important to come to the floor to explain very briefly to my colleagues what this resolution really is. this resolution is a total rewrite of the war powers clause of the u.s. constitution. let us be clear about that. it is essentially a declaration of international martial law, a sweeping transfer of military power to the president that will allow him or her to send u.s. troops almost anywhere in the world for almost any reason with absolutely no limitations. article i, section 8, clause 11 of the constitution vests in congress the responsibility to declare war. many of us on both sides of the aisle have been arguing for over a year that the president--right now-- has exceeded his constitutional authority in continuing [[page s154]] military operations against isis without specific authorization from congress. i have been amongst those who have been calling on this body to debate authorization of military force. so in that sense i am pleased the introduction of this resolution may allow us to have a debate on the senate floor about the right way to authorize war against our sworn enemy, isis, a terrorist organization that deserves to be degraded, defeated, and wiped off the map of this earth. while the ink is still wet on this resolution--so i will not endeavor to go into any detailed analysis of it--it is safe to say that this resolution is the wrong way to authorize war against isis. the language of this resolution is dangerous and it is unprecedented. the american people want congress to authorize war against isis, but they also want us to make sure we do not send hundreds of thousands of u.s. soldiers back into the middle east to fight a war that has to be won first and foremost with regional partners, and they certainly do not want congress to hand over the power to the president to send our troops into any country, anywhere in the world, for almost any reason. that is what this resolution would do. it does not give the power to the president to deploy u.s. troops in iraq and syria. it gives the power to the president--without consulting congress--to deploy u.s. forces in any one of the 60-plus countries where isis has a single sympathizer. even worse, the language does not even require isis to be present in a country for the president to invade. all that is necessary for the president to be able to argue--with a straight face--is that the threat of isis was present. as we have seen in the united states, the threat of isis is present in virtually every corner in the world. thus, this resolution would give the president total absolute carte blanche to send our young soldiers to any corner of the world without consulting congress. now, we would not have to worry about a president abusing this authority granted to him if an example of this abuse was not in our immediate rearview mirror. this congress gave president bush sweeping authority in two resolutions to fight terrorism in the wake of september 11, and he manipulated and abused that authority to send millions of american troops into iraq to fight a war under concocted, false pretenses. he got an open-ended authorization from congress, and he ran with it. now, what did we get for this colossal misrepresentation? over 4,000 americans dead, scores more than that crippled, and a region in chaos, in large part because of our disastrous invasion and occupation. on the campaign trail today, several of the candidates for president talked with such irresponsible bravado about throwing around america's military might. the likely republican nominee, as we sit here today, shows a blissful ignorance about u.s. military law and basic foreign policy that is truly frightening. so given recent history and given the current rhetoric on the presidential campaign trail today, why would we give the president such open-ended, sweeping authority ever again? and why would we even contemplate a resolution like this one that makes the 9/11 and iraq war resolutions seem like exercises in thoughtful restraint? why would we make the mistake of the iraq war resolution again, especially when there is an alternative? i know that we will likely have time to debate the question of how to properly authorize war against isis later. but in december of 2014, the foreign relations committee did vote out an aumf that gave the president all the power he needed to fight isis, while making sure that he had to come back to congress if he wanted to dramatically expand the current conflict to other countries or to put hundreds of thousands of american troops into a new war in the middle east. it is the only aumf that has received a favorable vote by the senate, and it is a template for how we can authorize a war that is not totally and completely open- ended. several have argued for us to take up a debate on the aumf because we believe that over the last 15 years, over the course of the war on terror, congress has basically abdicated its responsibility to be the voice of the people on the conduct of foreign policy. many of us think that a smart aumf would get congress back in the game when it comes to our constitutional responsibility to decide when and where our brave troops are sent into battle. but this resolution, as currently written, would do exactly the opposite. it would permanently hand over war- making power to the president, and congress would never get it back. it would allow this president and the next president to send our troops almost anywhere in the world for virtually any justifiable reason, with no ability for the people's branch of the federal government--this congress--to step in and to have our say. i do look forward to this debate if it does come to the floor. i think it is an immensely important debate. frankly, i will be glad to have it. the american public wants us to declare war on isis, but they want us to do it in a way that does not repeat the deadly, costly mistakes of the past. i yield the floor. the presiding officer (mr. portman). the majority whip. ____________________