[congressional record volume 166, number 163 (monday, september 21, 2020)] [house] [pages h4571-h4573] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] competitive health insurance reform act of 2020 ms. scanlon. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 1418) to restore the application of the federal antitrust laws to the business of health insurance to protect competition and consumers, as amended. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 1418 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``competitive health insurance reform act of 2020''. sec. 2. restoring the application of antitrust laws to the business of health insurance. (a) amendment to mccarran-ferguson act.--section 3 of the act of march 9, 1945 (15 u.s.c. 1013), commonly known as the mccarran-ferguson act, is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(c)(1) nothing contained in this act shall modify, impair, or supersede the operation of any of the antitrust laws with respect to the business of health insurance (including the business of dental insurance and limited-scope dental benefits). ``(2) paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to making a contract, or engaging in a combination or conspiracy-- ``(a) to collect, compile, or disseminate historical loss data; ``(b) to determine a loss development factor applicable to historical loss data; ``(c) to perform actuarial services if such contract, combination, or conspiracy does not involve a restraint of trade; or ``(d) to develop or disseminate a standard insurance policy form (including a standard addendum to an insurance policy form and standard terminology in an insurance policy form) if such contract, combination, or conspiracy is not to adhere to such standard form or require adherence to such standard form. ``(3) for purposes of this subsection-- ``(a) the term `antitrust laws' has the meaning given it in subsection (a) of the first section of the clayton act (15 u.s.c. 12), except that such term includes section 5 of the federal trade commission act (15 u.s.c. 45) to the extent that such section 5 applies to unfair methods of competition; ``(b) the term `business of health insurance (including the business of dental insurance and limited-scope dental benefits)' does not include-- ``(i) the business of life insurance (including annuities); or ``(ii) the business of property or casualty insurance, including but not limited to-- ``(i) any insurance or benefits defined as `excepted benefits' under paragraph (1), subparagraph (b) or (c) of paragraph (2), or [[page h4572]] paragraph (3) of section 9832(c) of the internal revenue code of 1986 (26 u.s.c. 9832(c)) whether offered separately or in combination with insurance or benefits described in paragraph (2)(a) of such section; and ``(ii) any other line of insurance that is classified as property or casualty insurance under state law; ``(c) the term `historical loss data' means information respecting claims paid, or reserves held for claims reported, by any person engaged in the business of insurance; and ``(d) the term `loss development factor' means an adjustment to be made to reserves held for losses incurred for claims reported by any person engaged in the business of insurance, for the purpose of bringing such reserves to an ultimate paid basis.''. (b) related provision.--for purposes of section 5 of the federal trade commission act (15 u.s.c. 45) to the extent such section applies to unfair methods of competition, section 3(c) of the mccarran-ferguson act shall apply with respect to the business of health insurance without regard to whether such business is carried on for profit, notwithstanding the definition of ``corporation'' contained in section 4 of the federal trade commission act. sec. 3. determination of budgetary effects. the budgetary effects of this act, for the purpose of complying with the statutory pay-as-you-go act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled ``budgetary effects of paygo legislation'' for this act, submitted for printing in the congressional record by the chairman of the house budget committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentlewoman from pennsylvania (ms. scanlon) and the gentleman from north dakota (mr. armstrong) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from pennsylvania. general leave ms. scanlon. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous materials on the bill under consideration. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentlewoman from pennsylvania? there was no objection. ms. scanlon. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise in strong support of h.r. 1418, the competitive health insurance reform act. this commonsense legislation repeals a longstanding antitrust exemption for the health insurance industry under the mccarran-ferguson act. it does so for price-fixing, bid-rigging, and market allocation-- the most egregious kinds of anticompetitive conduct. there is absolutely no justification for this broad antitrust exemption for the business of health insurance. congress passed the mccarran-ferguson act in response to a 1944 supreme court decision finding that the antitrust laws applied to the business of insurance. both insurance companies and the states expressed concern about that decision. insurance companies worried that it could jeopardize certain collective practices, like joint rate- setting and the pooling of historical data, and the states were concerned about losing their authority to regulate and tax the business of insurance. to address these issues, mccarran-ferguson provides that federal antitrust laws apply to the business of insurance only to the extent that it is not regulated by state law. unfortunately, this resulted in a broad antitrust exemption. industry and state revenue concerns, rather than the vital goals of protecting competition and consumers, were the primary drivers of the act. in passing mccarran-ferguson, congress initially intended to provide only a temporary exemption and, unfortunately, gave little consideration to competition concerns. not surprisingly, there is broad support for ending this safe harbor for antitrust violations that are criminally illegal. as the antitrust modernization commission report noted in 2007, the mccarran-ferguson exemption should be repealed because it has outlived any utility it may have had and is among the most ill-conceived and egregious examples. furthermore, it is far from clear that the mccarran-ferguson antitrust exemption was ever justified in the first place. antitrust exemption should be exceedingly rare and should be enacted only where there are strong policy reasons for such exemption. carving out an entire part of a healthcare system from the antitrust laws should be unthinkable, particularly when healthcare costs are so high for many families. that is why it is time to repeal the special exemption for the insurance industry. mr. speaker, i thank my colleague, chairman defazio, for his leadership on this important legislation. i urge my colleagues to support this bill, which previously passed the house with an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 416-7, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, under current law, the health and dental insurance industries are exempt from some federal competition laws and related enforcement actions. congress established this exemption in 1945 at a time when federal antitrust law was less developed and more likely to disrupt procompetitive practices in the insurance industry under state laws. h.r. 1418 would update antitrust law and apply it to the business of health insurance in ways designed to better protect consumers. at the same time, h.r. 1418 would still permit the health insurance industry to engage in procompetitive collaboration that benefits customers. mr. speaker, this bill represents another small step designed to improve america's healthcare system. i encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. scanlon. mr. speaker, i yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from oregon (mr. defazio). mr. defazio. mr. speaker, i thank the gentlewoman for yielding. mr. speaker, this bill, h.r. 1418, has 51 cosponsors in the house: 26 democrats, 25 republicans. it is endorsed by 23 national organizations, including consumer reports, which estimates it will save consumers billions of dollars a year in health insurance costs, other consumer rights groups, the american dental association, hospital association, and more. there are only two for-profit industries in america that have an exemption from antitrust law: one is professional baseball, dating from the 1920s, and the other is the vital area of health insurance, dating to the 1940s. this bill will take away that exemption. what does that mean? well, right now, insurance companies can and do get together and collude. before covid, they would go to some fancy resorts, get together, and say: how about you stay out of north dakota; we will stay out of south dakota? you stay out of oregon; we will stay out of washington. let us divide up the pie here. you decide where you are selling, and we will decide where we are selling. oh, and by the way, here are the things we do not want to cover. here are the people we want to redline and exclude. that is all legal. that is all legal. what does it do? it drives up the cost and the availability is diminished for americans. and now here we are in the midst of covid and the estimates are that 5 million people have lost their health insurance during covid--5 million people--yet, last year, the health insurance industry made an eye-popping $33 billion in profits. this year, the reports are they are doing even better, with more and more people uninsured. how are they doing that? well, they are jacking up copays. they are jacking up deductibles. they are excluding all sorts of treatments from coverage. and it is all legal, and they can all get together and say: hey, if you will not cover this, we will not cover it. that way we will not lose customers; you will not lose customers. what a sweet deal. what a sweet deal. well, one in four americans hesitated to go to the doctor--people who were insured--or to fill a prescription, get needed treatment because of the extraordinary copays and high deductibles. so a lot of people are paying 2,000, 3,000, 4,000, 5,000 bucks before they get any coverage on these so-called policies. what is this about? it is about greed. and it is time to end. this is a vital service for the american people. this bill was part of the original affordable care act in the house--my provision. it was stripped [[page h4573]] out in the senate at the behest of a former insurance executive--good old senate--so it did not get into the final version of aca. they took out a lot of other good things, too. the house bill was way preferable with national exchanges, not-for-profit, et cetera. but, in any case, it was stripped out. so the house held another vote after the passage of the affordable care act in 2010. tom perriello, then-representative for virginia, offered my bill on the floor and it passed by 406-19. what kind of bills pass 406-19? and then my colead on the bill, representative gosar, introduced the bill in 2017, and it passed 416-7 in the most bitterly partisan atmosphere in congress since post-civil war--416-7. it is time to get this done. finally, we are seeing some action in the senate. senator leahy has introduced a bill, ranking member of the committee on the judiciary, and senator daines. so there are three democrats, three republicans on the bill. hopefully, the senate will see the wisdom in helping americans afford health insurance, lowering their deductibles, lowering their copays, lowering their exclusions on prescription drugs. mr. speaker, even under medicare part d, they are always jacking people around: oh, sorry, you cannot have that medication anymore. we just took it off the list last week. they can do it any time they want. and they can talk to the other insurers, and say: hey, we are taking that drug off our list. will you take it off your list, because we do not want people to switch to your plan. that is all legal now. mr. speaker, after this bill passes, it will no longer be legal. this will be a tremendous service to the american people at any time in history, but particularly now in times of covid and crisis. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this legislation. mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, this is a good bill. i urge my colleagues to support it, and i yield back the balance of my time. ms. scanlon. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. healthy competition in health insurance markets is one of the most critical elements for ensuring that americans have access to high- quality, affordable healthcare. when insurance companies are forced to compete, the american people win. unfortunately, too many families are still paying higher premiums and out-of-pocket costs, in part, because of anticompetitive practices that health insurance giants are allowed to engage in under existing law. what is more, there is a statutory loophole for this conduct that allows insurers to engage in egregious actions like price-fixing, bid- rigging, and market allocation with total impunity so long as they are engaged in the business of insurance and it is regulated by a state. there should be no safe harbor whatsoever for this conduct which allows insurers to increase the cost of health insurance and impose additional burdens on families across our nation when they are already struggling to make ends meet. health insurance companies should be subject to antitrust liability to the extent that they collude or otherwise engage in anticompetitive behavior. h.r. 1418 would achieve this result. mr. speaker, i thank chairman defazio for his leadership on this bill, and i urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this legislation that is long overdue. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentlewoman from pennsylvania (ms. scanlon) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 1418, as amended. the question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. ____________________