[congressional record volume 170, number 20 (monday, february 5, 2024)] [house] [pages h396-h397] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] chesapeake and ohio canal national historical park commission extension act mr. westerman. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 1727) to amend the chesapeake and ohio canal development act to extend the chesapeake and ohio canal national historical park commission, as amended. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 1727 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``chesapeake and ohio canal national historical park commission extension act''. sec. 2. chesapeake and ohio canal national historical park commission. section 6(g) of the chesapeake and ohio canal development act (16 u.s.c. 410y-4(g)) is amended by striking ``40'' and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting ``on october 1, 2031.''. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from arkansas (mr. westerman) and the gentlewoman from michigan (mrs. dingell) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from arkansas. general leave mr. westerman. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on h.r. 1727, the bill now under consideration. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from arkansas? there was no objection. mr. westerman. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i support the chesapeake and ohio canal national historical park commission extension act. this bill reauthorizes the chesapeake and ohio canal national historical park commission for 7 years beyond the commission's current expiration date of september 2024. the chesapeake and ohio canal national historical park, or c&o canal, stretches over 184 miles from georgetown in washington, d.c., to cumberland, maryland. for nearly a century, the national historical park played a crucial role in the transportation of many agricultural products along the potomac river. today, the park offers numerous outdoor recreation opportunities while continuing to serve as a source of economic growth through tourism and employment opportunities. in 2021, the park attracted over 5 million visitors, supported 1,360 jobs, and generated $104 million in economic output in local gateway communities surrounding the park. [[page h397]] the park's commission is comprised of 19 members who serve on a volunteer basis. by including the voices and unique perspective of various local stakeholders, the commission provides a critical link between the national park service and local communities with no cost to the american taxpayer. mr. speaker, i support this bill, and i reserve the balance of my time. mrs. dingell. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise in support of h.r. 1727, the chesapeake and ohio canal national historical park commission extension act, introduced by my colleague from maryland, representative trone. once a transportation route from maryland to washington, d.c., the chesapeake and ohio canal national historical park now serves as an area full of recreational opportunities, while maintaining the historical structures of the old transportation route. the park is comprised of 184 miles along the potomac river, hosting over 5 million visitors annually. the bill before us would reauthorize the park's advisory commission until 2031 to allow them to continue their leadership in working with their communities to enhance visitor experience and recreational opportunities. the advisory commission is key to ensuring that local communities have a voice in the operation, maintenance, and restoration of the park. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the bill, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. westerman. mr. speaker, i have no further requests for time and continue to reserve the balance of my time. mrs. dingell. mr. speaker, i yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from maryland (mr. trone). mr. trone. mr. speaker, i rise today and urge a ``yes'' vote on my bill, the c&o canal national historical park commission extension act. running from d.c. to cumberland, maryland, the park's 20,000 acres of land are home to history. george washington himself spearheaded the efforts to navigate these waters and drive industry in our then-newly formed republic. for nearly 100 years, the canal transported lumber, crops, and coal, crucial commerce for the many communities depending on it for their livelihoods. now a national park, the c&o canal is home to thousands of native species, over 100 of which are listed as rare and threatened or endangered by the state of maryland, all of which must be fiercely protected. for more than 40 years, the advisory commission has served as a link between the surrounding communities and the national park service to manage and restore the park. the commission has a proven track record of ensuring the growth and maintenance of the land, as well as protection of the plants and animals living within it. every 10 years, congress must reauthorize this commission for it to continue the vital work, which brings us here today. i am proud to lead this effort with my dear friend, senator ben cardin, to ensure americans can enjoy, explore, and protect our park for generations to come. {time} 1615 i am honored to represent so many marylanders who get to appreciate the beauty and rich history of the c&o canal every day. by reauthorizing the commission, we are showing that congress values the investments in our nation's natural resources. i thank all members from the c&o canal region who support this legislation: representatives beyer, connolly, holmes norton, mooney, raskin, and wexton. i thank natural resources committee chair westerman for moving this bill through committee with unanimous support and chairwoman dingell for her support. mr. speaker, i urge a ``yes'' vote. mrs. dingell. mr. speaker, i have no further requests for time, and i am prepared to close. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support the legislation, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. westerman. mr. speaker, this is a commonsense bill that promotes collaboration between federal agencies and local stakeholders. it achieves this without adding any burden on the american taxpayer. mr. speaker, i urge adoption of this bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from arkansas (mr. westerman) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 1727, as amended. the question was taken. the speaker pro tempore. in the opinion of the chair, two-thirds being in the affirmative, the ayes have it. mr. westerman. mr. speaker, i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this question will be postponed. the point of no quorum is considered withdrawn. ____________________