[congressional record volume 166, number 61 (friday, march 27, 2020)] [house] [pages h1732-h1864] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] middle class health benefits tax repeal act of 2019 mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, pursuant to house resolution 911, i call up the bill (h.r. 748) to amend the internal revenue code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on high cost employer-sponsored health coverage, with the senate amendment thereto, and ask for its immediate consideration. the clerk read the title of the bill. the speaker pro tempore. the clerk will designate the senate amendment. senate amendment: strike all after the enacting clause and insert the following: section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act'' or the ``cares act''. sec. 2. table of contents. the table of contents for this act is as follows: sec. 1. short title. sec. 2. table of contents. sec. 3. references. division a--keeping workers paid and employed, health care system enhancements, and economic stabilization title i--keeping american workers paid and employed act sec. 1101. definitions. sec. 1102. paycheck protection program. sec. 1103. entrepreneurial development. sec. 1104. state trade expansion program. sec. 1105. waiver of matching funds requirement under the women's business center program. sec. 1106. loan forgiveness. sec. 1107. direct appropriations. sec. 1108. minority business development agency. sec. 1109. united states treasury program management authority. sec. 1110. emergency eidl grants. sec. 1111. resources and services in languages other than english. sec. 1112. subsidy for certain loan payments. sec. 1113. bankruptcy. sec. 1114. emergency rulemaking authority. title ii--assistance for american workers, families, and businesses subtitle a--unemployment insurance provisions sec. 2101. short title. sec. 2102. pandemic unemployment assistance. sec. 2103. emergency unemployment relief for governmental entities and nonprofit organizations. sec. 2104. emergency increase in unemployment compensation benefits. sec. 2105. temporary full federal funding of the first week of compensable regular unemployment for states with no waiting week. sec. 2106. emergency state staffing flexibility. sec. 2107. pandemic emergency unemployment compensation. sec. 2108. temporary financing of short-time compensation payments in states with programs in law. sec. 2109. temporary financing of short-time compensation agreements. sec. 2110. grants for short-time compensation programs. sec. 2111. assistance and guidance in implementing programs. sec. 2112. waiver of the 7-day waiting period for benefits under the railroad unemployment insurance act. sec. 2113. enhanced benefits under the railroad unemployment insurance act. sec. 2114. extended unemployment benefits under the railroad unemployment insurance act. sec. 2115. funding for the dol office of inspector general for oversight of unemployment provisions. sec. 2116. implementation. subtitle b--rebates and other individual provisions sec. 2201. 2020 recovery rebates for individuals. sec. 2202. special rules for use of retirement funds. sec. 2203. temporary waiver of required minimum distribution rules for certain retirement plans and accounts. sec. 2204. allowance of partial above the line deduction for charitable contributions. sec. 2205. modification of limitations on charitable contributions during 2020. sec. 2206. exclusion for certain employer payments of student loans. subtitle c--business provisions sec. 2301. employee retention credit for employers subject to closure due to covid-19. sec. 2302. delay of payment of employer payroll taxes. sec. 2303. modifications for net operating losses. sec. 2304. modification of limitation on losses for taxpayers other than corporations. sec. 2305. modification of credit for prior year minimum tax liability of corporations. sec. 2306. modifications of limitation on business interest. sec. 2307. technical amendments regarding qualified improvement property. sec. 2308. temporary exception from excise tax for alcohol used to produce hand sanitizer. title iii--supporting america's health care system in the fight against the coronavirus subtitle a--health provisions sec. 3001. short title. part i--addressing supply shortages subpart a--medical product supplies sec. 3101. national academies report on america's medical product supply chain security. sec. 3102. requiring the strategic national stockpile to include certain types of medical supplies. sec. 3103. treatment of respiratory protective devices as covered countermeasures. subpart b--mitigating emergency drug shortages sec. 3111. prioritize reviews of drug applications; incentives. sec. 3112. additional manufacturer reporting requirements in response to drug shortages. subpart c--preventing medical device shortages sec. 3121. discontinuance or interruption in the production of medical devices. part ii--access to health care for covid-19 patients subpart a--coverage of testing and preventive services sec. 3201. coverage of diagnostic testing for covid-19. sec. 3202. pricing of diagnostic testing. sec. 3203. rapid coverage of preventive services and vaccines for coronavirus. subpart b--support for health care providers sec. 3211. supplemental awards for health centers. sec. 3212. telehealth network and telehealth resource centers grant programs. sec. 3213. rural health care services outreach, rural health network development, and small health care provider quality improvement grant programs. sec. 3214. united states public health service modernization. sec. 3215. limitation on liability for volunteer health care professionals during covid-19 emergency response. sec. 3216. flexibility for members of national health service corps during emergency period. subpart c--miscellaneous provisions sec. 3221. confidentiality and disclosure of records relating to substance use disorder. sec. 3222. nutrition services. sec. 3223. continuity of service and opportunities for participants in community service activities under title v of the older americans act of 1965. sec. 3224. guidance on protected health information. sec. 3225. reauthorization of healthy start program. sec. 3226. importance of the blood supply. part iii--innovation sec. 3301. removing the cap on ota during public health emergencies. sec. 3302. priority zoonotic animal drugs. part iv--health care workforce sec. 3401. reauthorization of health professions workforce programs. sec. 3402. health workforce coordination. sec. 3403. education and training relating to geriatrics. sec. 3404. nursing workforce development. subtitle b--education provisions sec. 3501. short title. sec. 3502. definitions. sec. 3503. campus-based aid waivers. sec. 3504. use of supplemental educational opportunity grants for emergency aid. sec. 3505. federal work-study during a qualifying emergency. sec. 3506. adjustment of subsidized loan usage limits. sec. 3507. exclusion from federal pell grant duration limit. sec. 3508. institutional refunds and federal student loan flexibility. sec. 3509. satisfactory academic progress. sec. 3510. continuing education at affected foreign institutions. sec. 3511. national emergency educational waivers. sec. 3512. hbcu capital financing. sec. 3513. temporary relief for federal student loan borrowers. sec. 3514. provisions related to the corporation for national and community service. sec. 3515. workforce response activities. sec. 3516. technical amendments. sec. 3517. waiver authority and reporting requirement for institutional aid. sec. 3518. authorized uses and other modifications for grants. sec. 3519. service obligations for teachers. subtitle c--labor provisions sec. 3601. limitation on paid leave. sec. 3602. emergency paid sick leave act limitation. sec. 3603. unemployment insurance. sec. 3604. omb waiver of paid family and paid sick leave. sec. 3605. paid leave for rehired employees. sec. 3606. advance refunding of credits. sec. 3607. expansion of dol authority to postpone certain deadlines. sec. 3608. single-employer plan funding rules. [[page h1733]] sec. 3609. application of cooperative and small employer charity pension plan rules to certain charitable employers whose primary exempt purpose is providing services with respect to mothers and children. sec. 3610. federal contractor authority. sec. 3611. technical corrections. subtitle d--finance committee sec. 3701. exemption for telehealth services. sec. 3702. inclusion of certain over-the-counter medical products as qualified medical expenses. sec. 3703. increasing medicare telehealth flexibilities during emergency period. sec. 3704. enhancing medicare telehealth services for federally qualified health centers and rural health clinics during emergency period. sec. 3705. temporary waiver of requirement for face-to-face visits between home dialysis patients and physicians. sec. 3706. use of telehealth to conduct face-to-face encounter prior to recertification of eligibility for hospice care during emergency period. sec. 3707. encouraging use of telecommunications systems for home health services furnished during emergency period. sec. 3708. improving care planning for medicare home health services. sec. 3709. adjustment of sequestration. sec. 3710. medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system add- on payment for covid-19 patients during emergency period. sec. 3711. increasing access to post-acute care during emergency period. sec. 3712. revising payment rates for durable medical equipment under the medicare program through duration of emergency period. sec. 3713. coverage of the covid-19 vaccine under part b of the medicare program without any cost-sharing. sec. 3714. requiring medicare prescription drug plans and ma-pd plans to allow during the covid-19 emergency period for fills and refills of covered part d drugs for up to a 3-month supply. sec. 3715. providing home and community-based services in acute care hospitals. sec. 3716. clarification regarding uninsured individuals. sec. 3717. clarification regarding coverage of covid-19 testing products. sec. 3718. amendments relating to reporting requirements with respect to clinical diagnostic laboratory tests. sec. 3719. expansion of the medicare hospital accelerated payment program during the covid-19 public health emergency. sec. 3720. delaying requirements for enhanced fmap to enable state legislation necessary for compliance. subtitle e--health and human services extenders part i--medicare provisions sec. 3801. extension of the work geographic index floor under the medicare program. sec. 3802. extension of funding for quality measure endorsement, input, and selection. sec. 3803. extension of funding outreach and assistance for low-income programs. part ii--medicaid provisions sec. 3811. extension of the money follows the person rebalancing demonstration program. sec. 3812. extension of spousal impoverishment protections. sec. 3813. delay of dsh reductions. sec. 3814. extension and expansion of community mental health services demonstration program. part iii--human services and other health programs sec. 3821. extension of sexual risk avoidance education program. sec. 3822. extension of personal responsibility education program. sec. 3823. extension of demonstration projects to address health professions workforce needs. sec. 3824. extension of the temporary assistance for needy families program and related programs. part iv--public health provisions sec. 3831. extension for community health centers, the national health service corps, and teaching health centers that operate gme programs. sec. 3832. diabetes programs. part v--miscellaneous provisions sec. 3841. prevention of duplicate appropriations for fiscal year 2020. subtitle f--over-the-counter drugs part i--otc drug review sec. 3851. regulation of certain nonprescription drugs that are marketed without an approved drug application. sec. 3852. misbranding. sec. 3853. drugs excluded from the over-the-counter drug review. sec. 3854. treatment of sunscreen innovation act. sec. 3855. annual update to congress on appropriate pediatric indication for certain otc cough and cold drugs. sec. 3856. technical corrections. part ii--user fees sec. 3861. finding. sec. 3862. fees relating to over-the-counter drugs. title iv--economic stabilization and assistance to severely distressed sectors of the united states economy subtitle a--coronavirus economic stabilization act of 2020 sec. 4001. short title. sec. 4002. definitions. sec. 4003. emergency relief and taxpayer protections. sec. 4004. limitation on certain employee compensation. sec. 4005. continuation of certain air service. sec. 4006. coordination with secretary of transportation. sec. 4007. suspension of certain aviation excise taxes. sec. 4008. debt guarantee authority. sec. 4009. temporary government in the sunshine act relief. sec. 4010. temporary hiring flexibility. sec. 4011. temporary lending limit waiver. sec. 4012. temporary relief for community banks. sec. 4013. temporary relief from troubled debt restructurings. sec. 4014. optional temporary relief from current expected credit losses. sec. 4015. non-applicability of restrictions on esf during national emergency. sec. 4016. temporary credit union provisions. sec. 4017. increasing access to materials necessary for national security and pandemic recovery. sec. 4018. special inspector general for pandemic recovery. sec. 4019. conflicts of interest. sec. 4020. congressional oversight commission. sec. 4021. credit protection during covid-19. sec. 4022. foreclosure moratorium and consumer right to request forbearance. sec. 4023. forbearance of residential mortgage loan payments for multifamily properties with federally backed loans. sec. 4024. temporary moratorium on eviction filings. sec. 4025. protection of collective bargaining agreement. sec. 4026. reports. sec. 4027. direct appropriation. sec. 4028. rule of construction. sec. 4029. termination of authority. subtitle b--air carrier worker support sec. 4111. definitions. sec. 4112. pandemic relief for aviation workers. sec. 4113. procedures for providing payroll support. sec. 4114. required assurances. sec. 4115. protection of collective bargaining agreement. sec. 4116. limitation on certain employee compensation. sec. 4117. tax payer protection. sec. 4118. reports. sec. 4119. coordination. sec. 4120. direct appropriation. title v--coronavirus relief funds sec. 5001. coronavirus relief fund. title vi--miscellaneous provisions sec. 6001. covid-19 borrowing authority for the united states postal service. sec. 6002. emergency designation. division b--emergency appropriations for coronavirus health response and agency operations sec. 3. references. except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to ``this act'' contained in any division of this act shall be treated as referring only to the provisions of that division. division a--keeping workers paid and employed, health care system enhancements, and economic stabilization title i--keeping american workers paid and employed act sec. 1101. definitions. in this title-- (1) the terms ``administration'' and ``administrator'' mean the small business administration and the administrator thereof, respectively; and (2) the term ``small business concern'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636). sec. 1102. paycheck protection program. (a) in general.--section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)) is amended-- (1) in paragraph (2)-- (a) in subparagraph (a), in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``and (e)'' and inserting ``(e), and (f)''; and (b) by adding at the end the following: ``(f) participation in the paycheck protection program.--in an agreement to participate in a loan on a deferred basis under paragraph (36), the participation by the administration shall be 100 percent.''; and (2) by adding at the end the following: ``(36) paycheck protection program.-- ``(a) definitions.--in this paragraph-- ``(i) the terms `appropriate federal banking agency' and `insured depository institution' have the meanings given those terms in section 3 of the federal deposit insurance act (12 u.s.c. 1813); ``(ii) the term `covered loan' means a loan made under this paragraph during the covered period; ``(iii) the term `covered period' means the period beginning on february 15, 2020 and ending on june 30, 2020; ``(iv) the term `eligible recipient' means an individual or entity that is eligible to receive a covered loan; [[page h1734]] ``(v) the term `eligible self-employed individual' has the meaning given the term in section 7002(b) of the families first coronavirus response act (public law 116-127); ``(vi) the term `insured credit union' has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the federal credit union act (12 u.s.c. 1752); ``(vii) the term `nonprofit organization' means an organization that is described in section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986 and that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such code; ``(viii) the term `payroll costs'-- ``(i) means-- ``(aa) the sum of payments of any compensation with respect to employees that is a-- ``(aa) salary, wage, commission, or similar compensation; ``(bb) payment of cash tip or equivalent; ``(cc) payment for vacation, parental, family, medical, or sick leave; ``(dd) allowance for dismissal or separation; ``(ee) payment required for the provisions of group health care benefits, including insurance premiums; ``(ff) payment of any retirement benefit; or ``(gg) payment of state or local tax assessed on the compensation of employees; and ``(bb) the sum of payments of any compensation to or income of a sole proprietor or independent contractor that is a wage, commission, income, net earnings from self-employment, or similar compensation and that is in an amount that is not more than $100,000 in 1 year, as prorated for the covered period; and ``(ii) shall not include-- ``(aa) the compensation of an individual employee in excess of an annual salary of $100,000, as prorated for the covered period; ``(bb) taxes imposed or withheld under chapters 21, 22, or 24 of the internal revenue code of 1986 during the covered period; ``(cc) any compensation of an employee whose principal place of residence is outside of the united states; ``(dd) qualified sick leave wages for which a credit is allowed under section 7001 of the families first coronavirus response act (public law 116-127); or ``(ee) qualified family leave wages for which a credit is allowed under section 7003 of the families first coronavirus response act (public law 116-127); and ``(ix) the term `veterans organization' means an organization that is described in section 501(c)(19) of the internal revenue code that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such code. ``(b) paycheck protection loans.--except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the administrator may guarantee covered loans under the same terms, conditions, and processes as a loan made under this subsection. ``(c) registration of loans.--not later than 15 days after the date on which a loan is made under this paragraph, the administration shall register the loan using the tin (as defined in section 7701 of the internal revenue code of 1986) assigned to the borrower. ``(d) increased eligibility for certain small businesses and organizations.-- ``(i) in general.--during the covered period, in addition to small business concerns, any business concern, nonprofit organization, veterans organization, or tribal business concern described in section 31(b)(2)(c) shall be eligible to receive a covered loan if the business concern, nonprofit organization, veterans organization, or tribal business concern employs not more than the greater of-- ``(i) 500 employees; or ``(ii) if applicable, the size standard in number of employees established by the administration for the industry in which the business concern, nonprofit organization, veterans organization, or tribal business concern operates. ``(ii) inclusion of sole proprietors, independent contractors, and eligible self-employed individuals.-- ``(i) in general.--during the covered period, individuals who operate under a sole proprietorship or as an independent contractor and eligible self-employed individuals shall be eligible to receive a covered loan. ``(ii) documentation.--an eligible self-employed individual, independent contractor, or sole proprietorship seeking a covered loan shall submit such documentation as is necessary to establish such individual as eligible, including payroll tax filings reported to the internal revenue service, forms 1099-misc, and income and expenses from the sole proprietorship, as determined by the administrator and the secretary. ``(iii) business concerns with more than 1 physical location.--during the covered period, any business concern that employs not more than 500 employees per physical location of the business concern and that is assigned a north american industry classification system code beginning with 72 at the time of disbursal shall be eligible to receive a covered loan. ``(iv) waiver of affiliation rules.--during the covered period, the provisions applicable to affiliations under section 121.103 of title 13, code of federal regulations, or any successor regulation, are waived with respect to eligibility for a covered loan for-- ``(i) any business concern with not more than 500 employees that, as of the date on which the covered loan is disbursed, is assigned a north american industry classification system code beginning with 72; ``(ii) any business concern operating as a franchise that is assigned a franchise identifier code by the administration; and ``(iii) any business concern that receives financial assistance from a company licensed under section 301 of the small business investment act of 1958 (15 u.s.c. 681). ``(v) employee.--for purposes of determining whether a business concern, nonprofit organization, veterans organization, or tribal business concern described in section 31(b)(2)(c) employs not more than 500 employees under clause (i)(i), the term `employee' includes individuals employed on a full-time, part-time, or other basis. ``(vi) affiliation.--the provisions applicable to affiliations under section 121.103 of title 13, code of federal regulations, or any successor thereto, shall apply with respect to a nonprofit organization and a veterans organization in the same manner as with respect to a small business concern. ``(e) maximum loan amount.--during the covered period, with respect to a covered loan, the maximum loan amount shall be the lesser of-- ``(i)(i) the sum of-- ``(aa) the product obtained by multiplying-- ``(aa) the average total monthly payments by the applicant for payroll costs incurred during the 1-year period before the date on which the loan is made, except that, in the case of an applicant that is seasonal employer, as determined by the administrator, the average total monthly payments for payroll shall be for the 12-week period beginning february 15, 2019, or at the election of the eligible recipient, march 1, 2019, and ending june 30, 2019; by ``(bb) 2.5; and ``(bb) the outstanding amount of a loan under subsection (b)(2) that was made during the period beginning on january 31, 2020 and ending on the date on which covered loans are made available to be refinanced under the covered loan; or ``(ii) if requested by an otherwise eligible recipient that was not in business during the period beginning on february 15, 2019 and ending on june 30, 2019, the sum of-- ``(aa) the product obtained by multiplying-- ``(aa) the average total monthly payments by the applicant for payroll costs incurred during the period beginning on january 1, 2020 and ending on february 29, 2020; by ``(bb) 2.5; and ``(bb) the outstanding amount of a loan under subsection (b)(2) that was made during the period beginning on january 31, 2020 and ending on the date on which covered loans are made available to be refinanced under the covered loan; or ``(ii) $10,000,000. ``(f) allowable uses of covered loans.-- ``(i) in general.--during the covered period, an eligible recipient may, in addition to the allowable uses of a loan made under this subsection, use the proceeds of the covered loan for-- ``(i) payroll costs; ``(ii) costs related to the continuation of group health care benefits during periods of paid sick, medical, or family leave, and insurance premiums; ``(iii) employee salaries, commissions, or similar compensations; ``(iv) payments of interest on any mortgage obligation (which shall not include any prepayment of or payment of principal on a mortgage obligation); ``(v) rent (including rent under a lease agreement); ``(vi) utilities; and ``(vii) interest on any other debt obligations that were incurred before the covered period. ``(ii) delegated authority.-- ``(i) in general.--for purposes of making covered loans for the purposes described in clause (i), a lender approved to make loans under this subsection shall be deemed to have been delegated authority by the administrator to make and approve covered loans, subject to the provisions of this paragraph. ``(ii) considerations.--in evaluating the eligibility of a borrower for a covered loan with the terms described in this paragraph, a lender shall consider whether the borrower-- ``(aa) was in operation on february 15, 2020; and ``(bb)(aa) had employees for whom the borrower paid salaries and payroll taxes; or ``(bb) paid independent contractors, as reported on a form 1099-misc. ``(iii) additional lenders.--the authority to make loans under this paragraph shall be extended to additional lenders determined by the administrator and the secretary of the treasury to have the necessary qualifications to process, close, disburse and service loans made with the guarantee of the administration. ``(iv) refinance.--a loan made under subsection (b)(2) during the period beginning on january 31, 2020 and ending on the date on which covered loans are made available may be refinanced as part of a covered loan. ``(v) nonrecourse.--notwithstanding the waiver of the personal guarantee requirement or collateral under subparagraph (j), the administrator shall have no recourse against any individual shareholder, member, or partner of an eligible recipient of a covered loan for nonpayment of any covered loan, except to the extent that such shareholder, member, or partner uses the covered loan proceeds for a purpose not authorized under clause (i). ``(g) borrower requirements.-- ``(i) certification.--an eligible recipient applying for a covered loan shall make a good faith certification-- ``(i) that the uncertainty of current economic conditions makes necessary the loan request to support the ongoing operations of the eligible recipient; ``(ii) acknowledging that funds will be used to retain workers and maintain payroll or make mortgage payments, lease payments, and utility payments; ``(iii) that the eligible recipient does not have an application pending for a loan under this subsection for the same purpose and duplicative of amounts applied for or received under a covered loan; and ``(iv) during the period beginning on february 15, 2020 and ending on december 31, 2020, that the eligible recipient has not received amounts under this subsection for the same purpose and duplicative of amounts applied for or received under a covered loan. [[page h1735]] ``(h) fee waiver.--during the covered period, with respect to a covered loan-- ``(i) in lieu of the fee otherwise applicable under paragraph (23)(a), the administrator shall collect no fee; and ``(ii) in lieu of the fee otherwise applicable under paragraph (18)(a), the administrator shall collect no fee. ``(i) credit elsewhere.--during the covered period, the requirement that a small business concern is unable to obtain credit elsewhere, as defined in section 3(h), shall not apply to a covered loan. ``(j) waiver of personal guarantee requirement.--during the covered period, with respect to a covered loan-- ``(i) no personal guarantee shall be required for the covered loan; and ``(ii) no collateral shall be required for the covered loan. ``(k) maturity for loans with remaining balance after application of forgiveness.--with respect to a covered loan that has a remaining balance after reduction based on the loan forgiveness amount under section 1106 of the cares act-- ``(i) the remaining balance shall continue to be guaranteed by the administration under this subsection; and ``(ii) the covered loan shall have a maximum maturity of 10 years from the date on which the borrower applies for loan forgiveness under that section. ``(l) interest rate requirements.--a covered loan shall bear an interest rate not to exceed 4 percent. ``(m) loan deferment.-- ``(i) definition of impacted borrower.-- ``(i) in general.--in this subparagraph, the term `impacted borrower' means an eligible recipient that-- ``(aa) is in operation on february 15, 2020; and ``(bb) has an application for a covered loan that is approved or pending approval on or after the date of enactment of this paragraph. ``(ii) presumption.--for purposes of this subparagraph, an impacted borrower is presumed to have been adversely impacted by covid-19. ``(ii) deferral.--during the covered period, the administrator shall-- ``(i) consider each eligible recipient that applies for a covered loan to be an impacted borrower; and ``(ii) require lenders under this subsection to provide complete payment deferment relief for impacted borrowers with covered loans for a period of not less than 6 months, including payment of principal, interest, and fees, and not more than 1 year. ``(iii) secondary market.--during the covered period, with respect to a covered loan that is sold on the secondary market, if an investor declines to approve a deferral requested by a lender under clause (ii), the administrator shall exercise the authority to purchase the loan so that the impacted borrower may receive a deferral for a period of not less than 6 months, including payment of principal, interest, and fees, and not more than 1 year. ``(iv) guidance.--not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the administrator shall provide guidance to lenders under this paragraph on the deferment process described in this subparagraph. ``(n) secondary market sales.--a covered loan shall be eligible to be sold in the secondary market consistent with this subsection. the administrator may not collect any fee for any guarantee sold into the secondary market under this subparagraph. ``(o) regulatory capital requirements.-- ``(i) risk weight.--with respect to the appropriate federal banking agencies or the national credit union administration board applying capital requirements under their respective risk-based capital requirements, a covered loan shall receive a risk weight of zero percent. ``(ii) temporary relief from tdr disclosures.-- notwithstanding any other provision of law, an insured depository institution or an insured credit union that modifies a covered loan in relation to covid-19-related difficulties in a troubled debt restructuring on or after march 13, 2020, shall not be required to comply with the financial accounting standards board accounting standards codification subtopic 310-40 (`receivables - troubled debt restructurings by creditors') for purposes of compliance with the requirements of the federal deposit insurance act (12 u.s.c. 1811 et seq.), until such time and under such circumstances as the appropriate federal banking agency or the national credit union administration board, as applicable, determines appropriate. ``(p) reimbursement for processing.-- ``(i) in general.--the administrator shall reimburse a lender authorized to make a covered loan at a rate, based on the balance of the financing outstanding at the time of disbursement of the covered loan, of-- ``(i) 5 percent for loans of not more than $350,000; ``(ii) 3 percent for loans of more than $350,000 and less than $2,000,000; and ``(iii) 1 percent for loans of not less than $2,000,000. ``(ii) fee limits.--an agent that assists an eligible recipient to prepare an application for a covered loan may not collect a fee in excess of the limits established by the administrator. ``(iii) timing.--a reimbursement described in clause (i) shall be made not later than 5 days after the disbursement of the covered loan. ``(iv) sense of the senate.--it is the sense of the senate that the administrator should issue guidance to lenders and agents to ensure that the processing and disbursement of covered loans prioritizes small business concerns and entities in underserved and rural markets, including veterans and members of the military community, small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals (as defined in section 8(d)(3)(c)), women, and businesses in operation for less than 2 years. ``(q) duplication.--nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit a recipient of an economic injury disaster loan made under subsection (b)(2) during the period beginning on january 31, 2020 and ending on the date on which covered loans are made available that is for a purpose other than paying payroll costs and other obligations described in subparagraph (f) from receiving assistance under this paragraph. ``(r) waiver of prepayment penalty.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, there shall be no prepayment penalty for any payment made on a covered loan.''. (b) commitments for 7(a) loans.--during the period beginning on february 15, 2020 and ending on june 30, 2020-- (1) the amount authorized for commitments for general business loans authorized under section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)), including loans made under paragraph (36) of such section, as added by subsection (a), shall be $349,000,000,000; and (2) the amount authorized for commitments for such loans under the heading ``business loans program account'' under the heading ``small business administration'' under title v of the consolidated appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116- 93; 133 stat. 2475) shall not apply. (c) express loans.-- (1) in general.--section 7(a)(31)(d) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)(31)(d)) is amended by striking ``$350,000'' and inserting ``$1,000,000''. (2) prospective repeal.--effective on january 1, 2021, section 7(a)(31)(d) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)(31)(d)) is amended by striking ``$1,000,000'' and inserting ``$350,000''. (d) exception to guarantee fee waiver for veterans.-- section 7(a)(31)(g) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)(31)(g)) is amended-- (1) by striking clause (ii); and (2) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (ii). (e) interim rule.--on and after the date of enactment of this act, the interim final rule published by the administrator entitled ``express loan programs: affiliation standards'' (85 fed. reg. 7622 (february 10, 2020)) is permanently rescinded and shall have no force or effect. sec. 1103. entrepreneurial development. (a) definitions.--in this section-- (1) the term ``covered small business concern'' means a small business concern that has experienced, as a result of covid-19-- (a) supply chain disruptions, including changes in-- (i) quantity and lead time, including the number of shipments of components and delays in shipments; (ii) quality, including shortages in supply for quality control reasons; and (iii) technology, including a compromised payment network; (b) staffing challenges; (c) a decrease in gross receipts or customers; or (d) a closure; (2) the term ``resource partner'' means-- (a) a small business development center; and (b) a women's business center; (3) the term ``small business development center'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 632); and (4) the term ``women's business center'' means a women's business center described in section 29 of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 656). (b) education, training, and advising grants.-- (1) in general.--the administration may provide financial assistance in the form of grants to resource partners to provide education, training, and advising to covered small business concerns. (2) use of funds.--grants under this subsection shall be used for the education, training, and advising of covered small business concerns and their employees on-- (a) accessing and applying for resources provided by the administration and other federal resources relating to access to capital and business resiliency; (b) the hazards and prevention of the transmission and communication of covid-19 and other communicable diseases; (c) the potential effects of covid-19 on the supply chains, distribution, and sale of products of covered small business concerns and the mitigation of those effects; (d) the management and practice of telework to reduce possible transmission of covid-19; (e) the management and practice of remote customer service by electronic or other means; (f) the risks of and mitigation of cyber threats in remote customer service or telework practices; (g) the mitigation of the effects of reduced travel or outside activities on covered small business concerns during covid-19 or similar occurrences; and (h) any other relevant business practices necessary to mitigate the economic effects of covid-19 or similar occurrences. (3) grant determination.-- (a) small business development centers.--the administration shall award 80 percent of funds authorized to carry out this subsection to small business development centers, which shall be awarded pursuant to a formula jointly developed, negotiated, and agreed upon, with full participation of both parties, between the association formed under section 21(a)(3)(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 648(a)(3)(a)) and the administration. (b) women's business centers.--the administration shall award 20 percent of funds authorized to carry out this subsection to women's business centers, which shall be awarded pursuant to a process established by the administration in consultation with recipients of assistance. [[page h1736]] (c) no matching funds required.--matching funds shall not be required for any grant under this subsection. (4) goals and metrics.-- (a) in general.--goals and metrics for the funds made available under this subsection shall be jointly developed, negotiated, and agreed upon, with full participation of both parties, between the resource partners and the administrator, which shall-- (i) take into consideration the extent of the circumstances relating to the spread of covid-19, or similar occurrences, that affect covered small business concerns located in the areas covered by the resource partner, particularly in rural areas or economically distressed areas; (ii) generally follow the use of funds outlined in paragraph (2), but shall not restrict the activities of resource partners in responding to unique situations; and (iii) encourage resource partners to develop and provide services to covered small business concerns. (b) public availability.--the administrator shall make publicly available the methodology by which the administrator and resource partners jointly develop the metrics and goals described in subparagraph (a). (c) resource partner association grants.-- (1) in general.--the administrator may provide grants to an association or associations representing resource partners under which the association or associations shall establish a single centralized hub for covid-19 information, which shall include-- (a) 1 online platform that consolidates resources and information available across multiple federal agencies for small business concerns related to covid-19; and (b) a training program to educate resource partner counselors, members of the service corps of retired executives established under section 8(b)(1)(b) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 637(b)(1)(b)), and counselors at veterans business outreach centers described in section 32 of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 657b) on the resources and information described in subparagraph (a). (2) goals and metrics.--goals and metrics for the funds made available under this subsection shall be jointly developed, negotiated, and agreed upon, with full participation of both parties, between the association or associations receiving a grant under this subsection and the administrator. (d) report.--not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this act, and annually thereafter, the administrator shall submit to the committee on small business and entrepreneurship of the senate and the committee on small business of the house of representatives a report that describes-- (1) with respect to the initial year covered by the report-- (a) the programs and services developed and provided by the administration and resource partners under subsection (b); (b) the initial efforts to provide those services under subsection (b); and (c) the online platform and training developed and provided by the administration and the association or associations under subsection (c); and (2) with respect to the subsequent years covered by the report-- (a) with respect to the grant program under subsection (b)-- (i) the efforts of the administrator and resource partners to develop services to assist covered small business concerns; (ii) the challenges faced by owners of covered small business concerns in accessing services provided by the administration and resource partners; (iii) the number of unique covered small business concerns that were served by the administration and resource partners; and (iv) other relevant outcome performance data with respect to covered small business concerns, including the number of employees affected, the effect on sales, the disruptions of supply chains, and the efforts made by the administration and resource partners to mitigate these effects; and (b) with respect to the grant program under subsection (c)-- (i) the efforts of the administrator and the association or associations to develop and evolve an online resource for small business concerns; and (ii) the efforts of the administrator and the association or associations to develop a training program for resource partner counselors, including the number of counselors trained. sec. 1104. state trade expansion program. (a) in general.--notwithstanding paragraph (3)(c)(iii) of section 22(l) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 649(l)), for grants under the state trade expansion program under such section 22(l) using amounts made available for fiscal year 2018 or fiscal year 2019, the period of the grant shall continue through the end of fiscal year 2021. (b) reimbursement.--the administrator shall reimburse any recipient of assistance under section 22(l) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 649(l)) for financial losses relating to a foreign trade mission or a trade show exhibition that was cancelled solely due to a public health emergency declared due to covid-19 if the reimbursement does not exceed a recipient's grant funding. sec. 1105. waiver of matching funds requirement under the women's business center program. during the 3-month period beginning on the date of enactment of this act, the requirement relating to obtaining cash contributions from non-federal sources under section 29(c)(1) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 656(c)(1)) is waived for any recipient of assistance under such section 29. sec. 1106. loan forgiveness. (a) definitions.--in this section-- (1) the term ``covered loan'' means a loan guaranteed under paragraph (36) of section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)), as added by section 1102; (2) the term ``covered mortgage obligation'' means any indebtedness or debt instrument incurred in the ordinary course of business that-- (a) is a liability of the borrower; (b) is a mortgage on real or personal property; and (c) was incurred before february 15, 2020; (3) the term ``covered period'' means the 8-week period beginning on the date of the origination of a covered loan; (4) the term ``covered rent obligation'' means rent obligated under a leasing agreement in force before february 15, 2020; (5) the term ``covered utility payment'' means payment for a service for the distribution of electricity, gas, water, transportation, telephone, or internet access for which service began before february 15, 2020; (6) the term ``eligible recipient'' means the recipient of a covered loan; (7) the term ``expected forgiveness amount'' means the amount of principal that a lender reasonably expects a borrower to expend during the covered period on the sum of any-- (a) payroll costs; (b) payments of interest on any covered mortgage obligation (which shall not include any prepayment of or payment of principal on a covered mortgage obligation); (c) payments on any covered rent obligation; and (d) covered utility payments; and (8) the term ``payroll costs'' has the meaning given that term in paragraph (36) of section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)), as added by section 1102 of this act. (b) forgiveness.--an eligible recipient shall be eligible for forgiveness of indebtedness on a covered loan in an amount equal to the sum of the following costs incurred and payments made during the covered period: (1) payroll costs. (2) any payment of interest on any covered mortgage obligation (which shall not include any prepayment of or payment of principal on a covered mortgage obligation). (3) any payment on any covered rent obligation. (4) any covered utility payment. (c) treatment of amounts forgiven.-- (1) in general.--amounts which have been forgiven under this section shall be considered canceled indebtedness by a lender authorized under section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)). (2) purchase of guarantees.--for purposes of the purchase of the guarantee for a covered loan by the administrator, amounts which are forgiven under this section shall be treated in accordance with the procedures that are otherwise applicable to a loan guaranteed under section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)). (3) remittance.--not later than 90 days after the date on which the amount of forgiveness under this section is determined, the administrator shall remit to the lender an amount equal to the amount of forgiveness, plus any interest accrued through the date of payment. (4) advance purchase of covered loan.-- (a) report.--a lender authorized under section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)), or, at the discretion of the administrator, a third party participant in the secondary market, may, report to the administrator an expected forgiveness amount on a covered loan or on a pool of covered loans of up to 100 percent of the principal on the covered loan or pool of covered loans, respectively. (b) purchase.--the administrator shall purchase the expected forgiveness amount described in subparagraph (a) as if the amount were the principal amount of a loan guaranteed under section 7(a) of the small business act 636(a)). (c) timing.--not later than 15 days after the date on which the administrator receives a report under subparagraph (a), the administrator shall purchase the expected forgiveness amount under subparagraph (b) with respect to each covered loan to which the report relates. (d) limits on amount of forgiveness.-- (1) amount may not exceed principal.--the amount of loan forgiveness under this section shall not exceed the principal amount of the financing made available under the applicable covered loan. (2) reduction based on reduction in number of employees.-- (a) in general.--the amount of loan forgiveness under this section shall be reduced, but not increased, by multiplying the amount described in subsection (b) by the quotient obtained by dividing-- (i) the average number of full-time equivalent employees per month employed by the eligible recipient during the covered period; by (ii)(i) at the election of the borrower-- (aa) the average number of full-time equivalent employees per month employed by the eligible recipient during the period beginning on february 15, 2019 and ending on june 30, 2019; or (bb) the average number of full-time equivalent employees per month employed by the eligible recipient during the period beginning on january 1, 2020 and ending on february 29, 2020; or (ii) in the case of an eligible recipient that is seasonal employer, as determined by the administrator, the average number of full-time equivalent employees per month employed by the eligible recipient during the period beginning on february 15, 2019 and ending on june 30, 2019. (b) calculation of average number of employees.--for purposes of subparagraph (a), the average number of full-time equivalent employees shall be determined by calculating the [[page h1737]] average number of full-time equivalent employees for each pay period falling within a month. (3) reduction relating to salary and wages.-- (a) in general.--the amount of loan forgiveness under this section shall be reduced by the amount of any reduction in total salary or wages of any employee described in subparagraph (b) during the covered period that is in excess of 25 percent of the total salary or wages of the employee during the most recent full quarter during which the employee was employed before the covered period. (b) employees described.--an employee described in this subparagraph is any employee who did not receive, during any single pay period during 2019, wages or salary at an annualized rate of pay in an amount more than $100,000. (4) tipped workers.--an eligible recipient with tipped employees described in section 3(m)(2)(a) of the fair labor standards act of 1938 (29 u.s.c. 203(m)(2)(a)) may receive forgiveness for additional wages paid to those employees. (5) exemption for re-hires.-- (a) in general.--in a circumstance described in subparagraph (b), the amount of loan forgiveness under this section shall be determined without regard to a reduction in the number of full-time equivalent employees of an eligible recipient or a reduction in the salary of 1 or more employees of the eligible recipient, as applicable, during the period beginning on february 15, 2020 and ending on the date that is 30 days after the date of enactment of this act. (b) circumstances.--a circumstance described in this subparagraph is a circumstance-- (i) in which-- (i) during the period beginning on february 15, 2020 and ending on the date that is 30 days after the date of enactment of this act, there is a reduction, as compared to february 15, 2020, in the number of full-time equivalent employees of an eligible recipient; and (ii) not later than june 30, 2020, the eligible employer has eliminated the reduction in the number of full-time equivalent employees; (ii) in which-- (i) during the period beginning on february 15, 2020 and ending on the date that is 30 days after the date of enactment of this act, there is a reduction, as compared to february 15, 2020, in the salary or wages of 1 or more employees of the eligible recipient; and (ii) not later than june 30, 2020, the eligible employer has eliminated the reduction in the salary or wages of such employees; or (iii) in which the events described in clause (i) and (ii) occur. (6) exemptions.--the administrator and the secretary of the treasury may prescribe regulations granting de minimis exemptions from the requirements under this subsection. (e) application.--an eligible recipient seeking loan forgiveness under this section shall submit to the lender that is servicing the covered loan an application, which shall include-- (1) documentation verifying the number of full-time equivalent employees on payroll and pay rates for the periods described in subsection (d), including-- (a) payroll tax filings reported to the internal revenue service; and (b) state income, payroll, and unemployment insurance filings; (2) documentation, including cancelled checks, payment receipts, transcripts of accounts, or other documents verifying payments on covered mortgage obligations, payments on covered lease obligations, and covered utility payments; (3) a certification from a representative of the eligible recipient authorized to make such certifications that-- (a) the documentation presented is true and correct; and (b) the amount for which forgiveness is requested was used to retain employees, make interest payments on a covered mortgage obligation, make payments on a covered rent obligation, or make covered utility payments; and (4) any other documentation the administrator determines necessary. (f) prohibition on forgiveness without documentation.--no eligible recipient shall receive forgiveness under this section without submitting to the lender that is servicing the covered loan the documentation required under subsection (e). (g) decision.--not later than 60 days after the date on which a lender receives an application for loan forgiveness under this section from an eligible recipient, the lender shall issue a decision on the an application. (h) hold harmless.--if a lender has received the documentation required under this section from an eligible recipient attesting that the eligible recipient has accurately verified the payments for payroll costs, payments on covered mortgage obligations, payments on covered lease obligations, or covered utility payments during covered period-- (1) an enforcement action may not be taken against the lender under section 47(e) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 657t(e)) relating to loan forgiveness for the payments for payroll costs, payments on covered mortgage obligations, payments on covered lease obligations, or covered utility payments, as the case may be; and (2) the lender shall not be subject to any penalties by the administrator relating to loan forgiveness for the payments for payroll costs, payments on covered mortgage obligations, payments on covered lease obligations, or covered utility payments, as the case may be. (i) taxability.--for purposes of the internal revenue code of 1986, any amount which (but for this subsection) would be includible in gross income of the eligible recipient by reason of forgiveness described in subsection (b) shall be excluded from gross income. (j) rule of construction.--the cancellation of indebtedness on a covered loan under this section shall not otherwise modify the terms and conditions of the covered loan. (k) regulations.--not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this act, the administrator shall issue guidance and regulations implementing this section. sec. 1107. direct appropriations. (a) in general.--there is appropriated, out of amounts in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2020, to remain available until september 30, 2021, for additional amounts-- (1) $349,000,000,000 under the heading ``small business administration--business loans program account, cares act'' for the cost of guaranteed loans as authorized under paragraph (36) of section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)), as added by section 1102(a) of this act; (2) $675,000,000 under the heading ``small business administration--salaries and expenses'' for salaries and expenses of the administration; (3) $25,000,000 under the heading ``small business administration--office of inspector general'', to remain available until september 30, 2024, for necessary expenses of the office of inspector general of the administration in carrying out the provisions of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.); (4) $265,000,000 under the heading ``small business administration--entrepreneurial development programs'', of which-- (a) $240,000,000 shall be for carrying out section 1103(b) of this act; and (b) $25,000,000 shall be for carrying out section 1103(c) of this act; (5) $10,000,000 under the heading ``department of commerce--minority business development agency'' for minority business centers of the minority business development agency to provide technical assistance to small business concerns; (6) $10,000,000,000 under the heading ``small business administration--emergency eidl grants'' shall be for carrying out section 1110 of this act; (7) $17,000,000,000 under the heading ``small business administration--business loans program account, cares act'' shall be for carrying out section 1112 of this act; and (8) $25,000,000 under the heading ``department of the treasury--departmental offices--salaries and expenses'' shall be for carrying out section 1109 of this act. (b) secondary market.--during the period beginning on the date of enactment of this act and ending on september 30, 2021, guarantees of trust certificates authorized by section 5(g) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 635(g)) shall not exceed a principal amount of $100,000,000,000. (c) reports.--not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this act, the administrator shall submit to the committee on appropriations of the senate and the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives a detailed expenditure plan for using the amounts appropriated to the administration under subsection (a). sec. 1108. minority business development agency. (a) definitions.--in this section-- (1) the term ``agency'' means the minority business development agency of the department of commerce; (2) the term ``minority business center'' means a business center of the agency; (3) the term ``minority business enterprise'' means a for- profit business enterprise-- (a) not less than 51 percent of which is owned by 1 or more socially disadvantaged individuals, as determined by the agency; and (b) the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by 1 or more socially disadvantaged individuals, as determined by the agency; and (4) the term ``minority chamber of commerce'' means a chamber of commerce developed specifically to support minority business enterprises. (b) education, training, and advising grants.-- (1) in general.--the agency may provide financial assistance in the form of grants to minority business centers and minority chambers of commerce to provide education, training, and advising to minority business enterprises. (2) use of funds.--grants under this section shall be used for the education, training, and advising of minority business enterprises and their employees on-- (a) accessing and applying for resources provided by the agency and other federal resources relating to access to capital and business resiliency; (b) the hazards and prevention of the transmission and communication of covid-19 and other communicable diseases; (c) the potential effects of covid-19 on the supply chains, distribution, and sale of products of minority business enterprises and the mitigation of those effects; (d) the management and practice of telework to reduce possible transmission of covid-19; (e) the management and practice of remote customer service by electronic or other means; (f) the risks of and mitigation of cyber threats in remote customer service or telework practices; (g) the mitigation of the effects of reduced travel or outside activities on minority business enterprises during covid-19 or similar occurrences; and (h) any other relevant business practices necessary to mitigate the economic effects of covid-19 or similar occurrences. (3) no matching funds required.--matching funds shall not be required for any grant under this section. (4) goals and metrics.-- (a) in general.--goals and metrics for the funds made available under this section shall be [[page h1738]] jointly developed, negotiated, and agreed upon, with full participation of both parties, between the minority business centers, minority chambers of commerce, and the agency, which shall-- (i) take into consideration the extent of the circumstances relating to the spread of covid-19, or similar occurrences, that affect minority business enterprises located in the areas covered by minority business centers and minority chambers of commerce, particularly in rural areas or economically distressed areas; (ii) generally follow the use of funds outlined in paragraph (2), but shall not restrict the activities of minority business centers and minority chambers of commerce in responding to unique situations; and (iii) encourage minority business centers and minority chambers of commerce to develop and provide services to minority business enterprises. (b) public availability.--the agency shall make publicly available the methodology by which the agency, minority business centers, and minority chambers of commerce jointly develop the metrics and goals described in subparagraph (a). (c) waivers.-- (1) in general.--notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, the agency may, during the 3-month period that begins on the date of enactment of this act, waive any matching requirement imposed on a minority business center or a specialty center of the agency under a cooperative agreement between such a center and the agency if the applicable center is unable to raise funds, or has suffered a loss of revenue, because of the effects of covid-19. (2) remaining compliant.--notwithstanding any provision of a cooperative agreement between the agency and a minority business center, if, during the period beginning on the date of enactment of this act and ending on september 30, 2021, such a center decides not to collect fees because of the economic consequences of covid-19, the center shall be considered to be in compliance with that agreement if-- (a) the center notifies the agency with respect to that decision, which the center may provide through electronic mail; and (b) the agency, not later than 15 days after the date on which the center provides notice to the agency under subparagraph (a)-- (i) confirms receipt of the notification under subparagraph (a); and (ii) accepts the decision of the center. (d) report.--not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this act, and annually thereafter, the agency shall submit to the committee on small business and entrepreneurship and the committee on commerce, science, and transportation of the senate and the committee on small business and the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives a report that describes-- (1) with respect to the period covered by the initial report-- (a) the programs and services developed and provided by the agency, minority business centers, and minority chambers of commerce under subsection (b); and (b) the initial efforts to provide those services under subsection (b); and (2) with respect to subsequent years covered by the report-- (a) with respect to the grant program under subsection (b)-- (i) the efforts of the agency, minority business centers, and minority chambers of commerce to develop services to assist minority business enterprises; (ii) the challenges faced by owners of minority business enterprises in accessing services provided by the agency, minority business centers, and minority chambers of commerce; (iii) the number of unique minority business enterprises that were served by the agency, minority business centers, or minority chambers of commerce; and (iv) other relevant outcome performance data with respect to minority business enterprises, including the number of employees affected, the effect on sales, the disruptions of supply chains, and the efforts made by the agency, minority business centers, and minority chambers of commerce to mitigate these effects . (e) authorization of appropriations.--there is authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 to carry out this section, to remain available until expended. sec. 1109. united states treasury program management authority. (a) definitions.--in this section-- (1) the terms ``appropriate federal banking agency'' and ``insured depository institution'' have the meanings given those terms in section 3 of the federal deposit insurance act (12 u.s.c. 1813); (2) the term ``insured credit union'' has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the federal credit union act (12 u.s.c. 1752); and (3) the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of the treasury. (b) authority to include additional financial institutions.--the department of the treasury, in consultation with the administrator, and the chairman of the farm credit administration shall establish criteria for insured depository institutions, insured credit unions, institutions of the farm credit system chartered under the farm credit act of 1971 (12 u.s.c. 2001 et seq.), and other lenders that do not already participate in lending under programs of the administration, to participate in the paycheck protection program to provide loans under this section until the date on which the national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) expires. (c) safety and soundness.--an insured depository institution, insured credit union, institution of the farm credit system chartered under the farm credit act of 1971 (12 u.s.c. 2001 et seq.), or other lender may only participate in the program established under this section if participation does not affect the safety and soundness of the institution or lender, as determined by the secretary in consultation with the appropriate federal banking agencies or the national credit union administration board, as applicable. (d) regulations for lenders and loans.-- (1) in general.--the secretary may issue regulations and guidance as necessary to carry out the purposes of this section, including to-- (a) allow additional lenders to originate loans under this section; and (b) establish terms and conditions for loans under this section, including terms and conditions concerning compensation, underwriting standards, interest rates, and maturity. (2) requirements.--the terms and conditions established under paragraph (1) shall provide for the following: (a) a rate of interest that does not exceed the maximum permissible rate of interest available on a loan of comparable maturity under paragraph (36) of section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)), as added by section 1102 of this act. (b) terms and conditions that, to the maximum extent practicable, are consistent with the terms and conditions required under the following provisions of paragraph (36) of section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)), as added by section 1102 of this act: (i) subparagraph (d), pertaining to borrower eligibility. (ii) subparagraph (e), pertaining to the maximum loan amount. (iii) subparagraph (f)(i), pertaining to allowable uses of program loans. (iv) subparagraph (h), pertaining to fee waivers. (v) subparagraph (m), pertaining to loan deferment. (c) a guarantee percentage that, to the maximum extent practicable, is consistent with the guarantee percentage required under subparagraph (f) of section 7(a)(2) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)(2)), as added by section 1102 of this act. (d) loan forgiveness under terms and conditions that, to the maximum extent practicable, is consistent with the terms and conditions for loan forgiveness under section 1106 of this act. (e) additional regulations generally.--the secretary may issue regulations and guidance as necessary to carry out the purposes of this section, including to allow additional lenders to originate loans under this title and to establish terms and conditions such as compensation, underwriting standards, interest rates, and maturity for under this section. (f) certification.--as a condition of receiving a loan under this section, a borrower shall certify under terms acceptable to the secretary that the borrower-- (1) does not have an application pending for a loan under section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)) for the same purpose; and (2) has not received such a loan during the period beginning on february 15, 2020 and ending on december 31, 2020. (g) opt-in for sba qualified lenders.--lenders qualified to participate as a lender under 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)) may elect to participate in the paycheck protection program under the criteria, terms, and conditions established under this section. such participation shall not preclude the lenders from continuing participation as a lender under section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)). (h) program administration.--with guidance from the secretary, the administrator shall administer the program established under this section, including the making and purchasing of guarantees on loans under the program, until the date on which the national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid- 19) expires. (i) criminal penalties.--a loan under this section shall be deemed to be a loan under the small business act (15 u.s.c. 631 et seq.) for purposes of section 16 of such act (15 u.s.c. 645). sec. 1110. emergency eidl grants. (a) definitions.--in this section-- (1) the term ``covered period'' means the period beginning on january 31, 2020 and ending on december 31, 2020; and (2) the term ``eligible entity'' means-- (a) a business with not more than 500 employees; (b) any individual who operates under a sole proprietorship, with or without employees, or as an independent contractor; (c) a cooperative with not more than 500 employees; (d) an esop (as defined in section 3 of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 632)) with not more than 500 employees; or (e) a tribal small business concern, as described in section 31(b)(2)(c) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 657a(b)(2)(c)), with not more than 500 employees. (b) eligible entities.--during the covered period, in addition to small business concerns, private nonprofit organizations, and small agricultural cooperatives, an eligible entity shall be eligible for a loan made under section 7(b)(2) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(b)(2)). (c) terms; credit elsewhere.--with respect to a loan made under section 7(b)(2) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(b)(2)) in response to covid-19 during the covered period, the administrator shall waive-- (1) any rules related the personal guarantee on advances and loans of not more than $200,000 during the covered period for all applicants; [[page h1739]] (2) the requirement that an applicant needs to be in business for the 1-year period before the disaster, except that no waiver may be made for a business that was not in operation on january 31, 2020; and (3) the requirement in the flush matter following subparagraph (e) of section 7(b)(2) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(b)(2)), as so redesignated by subsection (f) of this section, that an applicant be unable to obtain credit elsewhere. (d) approval and ability to repay for small dollar loans.-- with respect to a loan made under section 7(b)(2) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(b)(2)) in response to covid-19 during the covered period, the administrator may-- (1) approve an applicant based solely on the credit score of the applicant and shall not require an applicant to submit a tax return or a tax return transcript for such approval; or (2) use alternative appropriate methods to determine an applicant's ability to repay. (e) emergency grant.-- (1) in general.--during the covered period, an entity included for eligibility in subsection (b), including small business concerns, private nonprofit organizations, and small agricultural cooperatives, that applies for a loan under section 7(b)(2) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(b)(2)) in response to covid-19 may request that the administrator provide an advance that is, subject to paragraph (3), in the amount requested by such applicant to such applicant within 3 days after the administrator receives an application from such applicant. (2) verification.--before disbursing amounts under this subsection, the administrator shall verify that the applicant is an eligible entity by accepting a self-certification from the applicant under penalty of perjury pursuant to section 1746 of title 28 united states code. (3) amount.--the amount of an advance provided under this subsection shall be not more than $10,000. (4) use of funds.--an advance provided under this subsection may be used to address any allowable purpose for a loan made under section 7(b)(2) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(b)(2)), including-- (a) providing paid sick leave to employees unable to work due to the direct effect of the covid-19; (b) maintaining payroll to retain employees during business disruptions or substantial slowdowns; (c) meeting increased costs to obtain materials unavailable from the applicant's original source due to interrupted supply chains; (d) making rent or mortgage payments; and (e) repaying obligations that cannot be met due to revenue losses. (5) repayment.--an applicant shall not be required to repay any amounts of an advance provided under this subsection, even if subsequently denied a loan under section 7(b)(2) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(b)(2)). (6) unemployment grant.--if an applicant that receives an advance under this subsection transfers into, or is approved for, the loan program under section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)), the advance amount shall be reduced from the loan forgiveness amount for a loan for payroll costs made under such section 7(a). (7) authorization of appropriations.--there is authorized to be appropriated to the administration $10,000,000,000 to carry out this subsection. (8) termination.--the authority to carry out grants under this subsection shall terminate on december 31, 2020. (f) emergencies involving federal primary responsibility qualifying for sba assistance.--section 7(b)(2) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(b)(2)) is amended-- (1) in subparagraph (a), by striking ``or'' at the end; (2) in subparagraph (b), by striking ``or'' at the end; (3) in subparagraph (c), by striking ``or'' at the end; (4) by redesignating subparagraph (d) as subparagraph (e); (5) by inserting after subparagraph (c) the following: ``(d) an emergency involving federal primary responsibility determined to exist by the president under the section 501(b) of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5191(b)); or''; and (6) in subparagraph (e), as so redesignated-- (a) by striking ``or (c)'' and inserting ``(c), or (d)''; (b) by striking ``disaster declaration'' each place it appears and inserting ``disaster or emergency declaration''; (c) by striking ``disaster has occurred'' and inserting ``disaster or emergency has occurred''; (d) by striking ``such disaster'' and inserting ``such disaster or emergency''; and (e) by striking ``disaster stricken'' and inserting ``disaster- or emergency-stricken''; and (7) in the flush matter following subparagraph (e), as so redesignated, by striking the period at the end and inserting the following: ``: provided further, that for purposes of subparagraph (d), the administrator shall deem that such an emergency affects each state or subdivision thereof (including counties), and that each state or subdivision has sufficient economic damage to small business concerns to qualify for assistance under this paragraph and the administrator shall accept applications for such assistance immediately.''. sec. 1111. resources and services in languages other than english. (a) in general.--the administrator shall provide the resources and services made available by the administration to small business concerns in the 10 most commonly spoken languages, other than english, in the united states, which shall include mandarin, cantonese, japanese, and korean. (b) authorization of appropriations.--there is authorized to be appropriated to the administrator $25,000,000 to carry out this section. sec. 1112. subsidy for certain loan payments. (a) definition of covered loan.--in this section, the term ``covered loan'' means a loan that is-- (1) guaranteed by the administration under-- (a) section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a))-- (i) including a loan made under the community advantage pilot program of the administration; and (ii) excluding a loan made under paragraph (36) of such section 7(a), as added by section 1102; or (b) title v of the small business investment act of 1958 (15 u.s.c. 695 et seq.); or (2) made by an intermediary to a small business concern using loans or grants received under section 7(m) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(m)). (b) sense of congress.--it is the sense of congress that-- (1) all borrowers are adversely affected by covid-19; (2) relief payments by the administration are appropriate for all borrowers; and (3) in addition to the relief provided under this act, the administration should encourage lenders to provide payment deferments, when appropriate, and to extend the maturity of covered loans, so as to avoid balloon payments or any requirement for increases in debt payments resulting from deferments provided by lenders during the period of the national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). (c) principal and interest payments.-- (1) in general.--the administrator shall pay the principal, interest, and any associated fees that are owed on a covered loan in a regular servicing status-- (a) with respect to a covered loan made before the date of enactment of this act and not on deferment, for the 6-month period beginning with the next payment due on the covered loan; (b) with respect to a covered loan made before the date of enactment of this act and on deferment, for the 6-month period beginning with the next payment due on the covered loan after the deferment period; and (c) with respect to a covered loan made during the period beginning on the date of enactment of this act and ending on the date that is 6 months after such date of enactment, for the 6-month period beginning with the first payment due on the covered loan. (2) timing of payment.--the administrator shall begin making payments under paragraph (1) on a covered loan not later than 30 days after the date on which the first such payment is due. (3) application of payment.--any payment made by the administrator under paragraph (1) shall be applied to the covered loan such that the borrower is relieved of the obligation to pay that amount. (d) other requirements.--the administrator shall-- (1) communicate and coordinate with the federal deposit insurance corporation, the office of the comptroller of the currency, and state bank regulators to encourage those entities to not require lenders to increase their reserves on account of receiving payments made by the administrator under subsection (c); (2) waive statutory limits on maximum loan maturities for any covered loan durations where the lender provides a deferral and extends the maturity of covered loans during the 1-year period following the date of enactment of this act; and (3) when necessary to provide more time because of the potential of higher volumes, travel restrictions, and the inability to access some properties during the covid-19 pandemic, extend lender site visit requirements to-- (a) not more than 60 days (which may be extended at the discretion of the administration) after the occurrence of an adverse event, other than a payment default, causing a loan to be classified as in liquidation; and (b) not more than 90 days after a payment default. (e) rule of construction.--nothing in this section may be construed to limit the authority of the administrator to make payments pursuant to subsection (c) with respect to a covered loan solely because the covered loan has been sold in the secondary market. (f) authorization of appropriations.--there is authorized to be appropriated to the administrator $17,000,000,000 to carry out this section. sec. 1113. bankruptcy. (a) small business debtor reorganization.-- (1) in general.--section 1182(1) of title 11, united states code, is amended to read as follows: ``(1) debtor.--the term `debtor'-- ``(a) subject to subparagraph (b), means a person engaged in commercial or business activities (including any affiliate of such person that is also a debtor under this title and excluding a person whose primary activity is the business of owning single asset real estate) that has aggregate noncontingent liquidated secured and unsecured debts as of the date of the filing of the petition or the date of the order for relief in an amount not more than $7,500,000 (excluding debts owed to 1 or more affiliates or insiders) not less than 50 percent of which arose from the commercial or business activities of the debtor; and [[page h1740]] ``(b) does not include-- ``(i) any member of a group of affiliated debtors that has aggregate noncontingent liquidated secured and unsecured debts in an amount greater than $7,500,000 (excluding debt owed to 1 or more affiliates or insiders); ``(ii) any debtor that is a corporation subject to the reporting requirements under section 13 or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (15 u.s.c. 78m, 78o(d)); or ``(iii) any debtor that is an affiliate of an issuer, as defined in section 3 of the securities exchange act of 1934 (15 u.s.c. 78c).''. (2) applicability of chapters.--section 103(i) of title 11, united states code, is amended by striking ``small business debtor'' and inserting ``debtor (as defined in section 1182)''. (3) application of amendment.--the amendment made by paragraph (1) shall apply only with respect to cases commenced under title 11, united states code, on or after the date of enactment of this act. (4) technical corrections.-- (a) definition of small business debtor.--section 101(51d)(b)(iii) of title 11, united states code, is amended to read as follows: ``(iii) any debtor that is an affiliate of an issuer (as defined in section 3 of the securities exchange act of 1934 (15 u.s.c. 78c)).''. (b) unclaimed property.--section 347(b) of title 11, united states code, is amended by striking ``1194'' and inserting ``1191''. (5) sunset.--on the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this act, section 1182(1) of title 11, united states code, is amended to read as follows: ``(1) debtor.--the term `debtor' means a small business debtor.''. (b) bankruptcy relief.-- (1) in general.-- (a) exclusion from current monthly income.--section 101(10a)(b)(ii) of title 11, united states code, is amended-- (i) in subclause (iii), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a semicolon; (ii) in subclause (iv), by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and (iii) by adding at the end the following: ``(v) payments made under federal law relating to the national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19).''. (b) confirmation of plan.--section 1325(b)(2) of title 11, united states code, is amended by inserting ``payments made under federal law relating to the national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19),'' after ``other than''. (c) modification of plan after confirmation.--section 1329 of title 11, united states code, is amended by adding at end the following: ``(d)(1) subject to paragraph (3), for a plan confirmed prior to the date of enactment of this subsection, the plan may be modified upon the request of the debtor if-- ``(a) the debtor is experiencing or has experienced a material financial hardship due, directly or indirectly, to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) pandemic; and ``(b) the modification is approved after notice and a hearing. ``(2) a plan modified under paragraph (1) may not provide for payments over a period that expires more than 7 years after the time that the first payment under the original confirmed plan was due. ``(3) sections 1322(a), 1322(b), 1323(c), and the requirements of section 1325(a) shall apply to any modification under paragraph (1).''. (d) applicability.-- (i) the amendments made by subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall apply to any case commenced before, on, or after the date of enactment of this act. (ii) the amendment made by subparagraph (c) shall apply to any case for which a plan has been confirmed under section 1325 of title 11, united states code, before the date of enactment of this act. (2) sunset.-- (a) in general.-- (i) exclusion from current monthly income.--section 101(10a)(b)(ii) of title 11, united states code, is amended-- (i) in subclause (iii), by striking the semicolon at the end and inserting ``; and''; (ii) in subclause (iv), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a period; and (iii) by striking subclause (v). (ii) confirmation of plan.--section 1325(b)(2) of title 11, united states code, is amended by striking ``payments made under federal law relating to the national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19),''. (iii) modification of plan after confirmation.--section 1329 of title 11, united states code, is amended by striking subsection (d). (b) effective date.--the amendments made by subparagraph (a) shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this act. sec. 1114. emergency rulemaking authority. not later than 15 days after the date of enactment of this act, the administrator shall issue regulations to carry out this title and the amendments made by this title without regard to the notice requirements under section 553(b) of title 5, united states code. title ii--assistance for american workers, families, and businesses subtitle a--unemployment insurance provisions sec. 2101. short title. this subtitle may be cited as the ``relief for workers affected by coronavirus act''. sec. 2102. pandemic unemployment assistance. (a) definitions.--in this section: (1) covid-19.--the term ``covid-19'' means the 2019 novel coronavirus or 2019-ncov. (2) covid-19 public health emergency.--the term ``covid-19 public health emergency'' means the public health emergency declared by the secretary of health and human services on january 27, 2020, with respect to the 2019 novel coronavirus. (3) covered individual.--the term ``covered individual''-- (a) means an individual who-- (i) is not eligible for regular compensation or extended benefits under state or federal law or pandemic emergency unemployment compensation under section 2107, including an individual who has exhausted all rights to regular unemployment or extended benefits under state or federal law or pandemic emergency unemployment compensation under section 2107; and (ii) provides self-certification that the individual-- (i) is otherwise able to work and available for work within the meaning of applicable state law, except the individual is unemployed, partially unemployed, or unable or unavailable to work because-- (aa) the individual has been diagnosed with covid-19 or is experiencing symptoms of covid-19 and seeking a medical diagnosis; (bb) a member of the individual's household has been diagnosed with covid-19; (cc) the individual is providing care for a family member or a member of the individual's household who has been diagnosed with covid-19; (dd) a child or other person in the household for which the individual has primary caregiving responsibility is unable to attend school or another facility that is closed as a direct result of the covid-19 public health emergency and such school or facility care is required for the individual to work; (ee) the individual is unable to reach the place of employment because of a quarantine imposed as a direct result of the covid-19 public health emergency; (ff) the individual is unable to reach the place of employment because the individual has been advised by a health care provider to self-quarantine due to concerns related to covid-19; (gg) the individual was scheduled to commence employment and does not have a job or is unable to reach the job as a direct result of the covid-19 public health emergency; (hh) the individual has become the breadwinner or major support for a household because the head of the household has died as a direct result of covid-19; (ii) the individual has to quit his or her job as a direct result of covid-19; (jj) the individual's place of employment is closed as a direct result of the covid-19 public health emergency; or (kk) the individual meets any additional criteria established by the secretary for unemployment assistance under this section; or (ii) is self-employed, is seeking part-time employment, does not have sufficient work history, or otherwise would not qualify for regular unemployment or extended benefits under state or federal law or pandemic emergency unemployment compensation under section 2107 and meets the requirements of subclause (i); and (b) does not include-- (i) an individual who has the ability to telework with pay; or (ii) an individual who is receiving paid sick leave or other paid leave benefits, regardless of whether the individual meets a qualification described in items (aa) through (kk) of subparagraph (a)(i)(i). (4) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of labor. (5) state.--the term ``state'' includes the district of columbia, the commonwealth of puerto rico, the virgin islands, guam, american samoa, the commonwealth of the northern mariana islands, the federated states of micronesia, the republic of the marshall islands, and the republic of palau. (b) assistance for unemployment as a result of covid-19.-- subject to subsection (c), the secretary shall provide to any covered individual unemployment benefit assistance while such individual is unemployed, partially unemployed, or unable to work for the weeks of such unemployment with respect to which the individual is not entitled to any other unemployment compensation (as that term is defined in section 85(b) of title 26, united states code) or waiting period credit. (c) applicability.-- (1) in general.--except as provided in paragraph (2), the assistance authorized under subsection (b) shall be available to a covered individual-- (a) for weeks of unemployment, partial unemployment, or inability to work caused by covid-19-- (i) beginning on or after january 27, 2020; and (ii) ending on or before december 31, 2020; and (b) subject to subparagraph (a)(ii), as long as the covered individual's unemployment, partial unemployment, or inability to work caused by covid-19 continues. (2) limitation on duration of assistance.--the total number of weeks for which a covered individual may receive assistance under this section shall not exceed 39 weeks and such total shall include any week for which the covered individual received regular compensation or extended benefits under any federal or state law, except that if after the date of enactment of this act, the duration of extended benefits is extended, the 39-week period described in this paragraph shall be extended by the number of weeks that is equal to the number of weeks by which the extended benefits were extended. [[page h1741]] (3) assistance for unemployment before date of enactment.-- the secretary shall establish a process for making assistance under this section available for weeks beginning on or after january 27, 2020, and before the date of enactment of this act. (d) amount of assistance.-- (1) in general.--the assistance authorized under subsection (b) for a week of unemployment, partial unemployment, or inability to work shall be-- (a)(i) the weekly benefit amount authorized under the unemployment compensation law of the state where the covered individual was employed, except that the amount may not be less than the minimum weekly benefit amount described in section 625.6 of title 20, code of federal regulations, or any successor thereto; and (ii) the amount of federal pandemic unemployment compensation under section 2104; and (b) in the case of an increase of the weekly benefit amount after the date of enactment of this act, increased in an amount equal to such increase. (2) calculations of amounts for certain covered individuals.--in the case of a covered individual who is self-employed, who lives in a territory described in subsection (c) or (d) of section 625.6 of title 20, code of federal regulations, or who would not otherwise qualify for unemployment compensation under state law, the assistance authorized under subsection (b) for a week of unemployment shall be calculated in accordance with section 625.6 of title 20, code of federal regulations, or any successor thereto, and shall be increased by the amount of federal pandemic unemployment compensation under section 2104. (3) allowable methods of payment.--any assistance provided for in accordance with paragraph (1)(a)(ii) shall be payable either-- (a) as an amount which is paid at the same time and in the same manner as the assistance provided for in paragraph (1)(a)(i) is payable for the week involved; or (b) at the option of the state, by payments which are made separately from, but on the same weekly basis as, any assistance provided for in paragraph (1)(a)(i). (e) waiver of state requirement.--notwithstanding state law, for purposes of assistance authorized under this section, compensation under this act shall be made to an individual otherwise eligible for such compensation without any waiting period. (f) agreements with states.-- (1) in general.--the secretary shall provide the assistance authorized under subsection (b) through agreements with states which, in the judgment of the secretary, have an adequate system for administering such assistance through existing state agencies. (2) payments to states.--there shall be paid to each state which has entered into an agreement under this subsection an amount equal to 100 percent of-- (a) the total amount of assistance provided by the state pursuant to such agreement; and (b) any additional administrative expenses incurred by the state by reason of such agreement (as determined by the secretary), including any administrative expenses necessary to facilitate processing of applications for assistance under this section online or by telephone rather than in-person. (3) terms of payments.--sums payable to any state by reason of such state's having an agreement under this subsection shall be payable, either in advance or by way of reimbursement (as determined by the secretary), in such amounts as the secretary estimates the state will be entitled to receive under this subsection for each calendar month, reduced or increased, as the case may be, by any amount by which the secretary finds that his estimates for any prior calendar month were greater or less than the amounts which should have been paid to the state. such estimates may be made on the basis of such statistical, sampling, or other method as may be agreed upon by the secretary and the state agency of the state involved. (g) funding.-- (1) assistance.-- (a) in general.--funds in the extended unemployment compensation account (as established by section 905(a) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1105(a)) of the unemployment trust fund (as established by section 904(a) of such act (42 u.s.c. 1104(a)) shall be used to make payments to states pursuant to subsection (f)(2)(a). (b) transfer of funds.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of the treasury shall transfer from the general fund of the treasury (from funds not otherwise appropriated) to the extended unemployment compensation account such sums as the secretary of labor estimates to be necessary to make payments described in subparagraph (a). there are appropriated from the general fund of the treasury, without fiscal year limitation, the sums referred to in the preceding sentence and such sums shall not be required to be repaid. (2) administrative expenses.-- (a) in general.--funds in the employment security administration account (as established by section 901(a) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1105(a)) of the unemployment trust fund (as established by section 904(a) of such act (42 u.s.c. 1104(a)) shall be used to make payments to states pursuant to subsection (f)(2)(b). (b) transfer of funds.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of the treasury shall transfer from the general fund of the treasury (from funds not otherwise appropriated) to the employment security administration account such sums as the secretary of labor estimates to be necessary to make payments described in subparagraph (a). there are appropriated from the general fund of the treasury, without fiscal year limitation, the sums referred to in the preceding sentence and such sums shall not be required to be repaid. (3) certifications.--the secretary of labor shall from time to time certify to the secretary of the treasury for payment to each state the sums payable to such state under paragraphs (1) and (2). (h) relationship between pandemic unemployment assistance and disaster unemployment assistance.--except as otherwise provided in this section or to the extent there is a conflict between this section and section 625 of title 20, code of federal regulations, such section 625 shall apply to this section as if-- (1) the term ``covid-19 public health emergency'' were substituted for the term ``major disaster'' each place it appears in such section 625; and (2) the term ``pandemic'' were substituted for the term ``disaster'' each place it appears in such section 625. sec. 2103. emergency unemployment relief for governmental entities and nonprofit organizations. (a) flexibility in paying reimbursement.--the secretary of labor may issue clarifying guidance to allow states to interpret their state unemployment compensation laws in a manner that would provide maximum flexibility to reimbursing employers as it relates to timely payment and assessment of penalties and interest pursuant to such state laws. (b) federal funding.--section 903 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1103) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``transfers for federal reimbursement of state unemployment funds ``(i)(1)(a) in addition to any other amounts, the secretary of labor shall provide for the transfer of funds during the applicable period to the accounts of the states in the unemployment trust fund, by transfer from amounts reserved for that purpose in the federal unemployment account, in accordance with the succeeding provisions of this subsection. ``(b) the amount of funds transferred to the account of a state under subparagraph (a) during the applicable period shall, as determined by the secretary of labor, be equal to one-half of the amounts of compensation (as defined in section 3306(h) of the internal revenue code of 1986) attributable under the state law to service to which section 3309(a)(1) of such code applies that were paid by the state for weeks of unemployment beginning and ending during such period. such transfers shall be made at such times as the secretary of labor considers appropriate. ``(c) notwithstanding any other law, funds transferred to the account of a state under subparagraph (a) shall be used exclusively to reimburse governmental entities and other organizations described in section 3309(a)(2) of such code for amounts paid (in lieu of contributions) into the state unemployment fund pursuant to such section. ``(d) for purposes of this paragraph, the term `applicable period' means the period beginning on march 13, 2020, and ending on december 31, 2020. ``(2)(a) notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of the treasury shall transfer from the general fund of the treasury (from funds not otherwise appropriated) to the federal unemployment account such sums as the secretary of labor estimates to be necessary for purposes of making the transfers described in paragraph (1). ``(b) there are appropriated from the general fund of the treasury, without fiscal year limitation, the sums referred to in subparagraph (a) and such sums shall not be required to be repaid.''. sec. 2104. emergency increase in unemployment compensation benefits. (a) federal-state agreements.--any state which desires to do so may enter into and participate in an agreement under this section with the secretary of labor (in this section referred to as the ``secretary''). any state which is a party to an agreement under this section may, upon providing 30 days' written notice to the secretary, terminate such agreement. (b) provisions of agreement.-- (1) federal pandemic unemployment compensation.--any agreement under this section shall provide that the state agency of the state will make payments of regular compensation to individuals in amounts and to the extent that they would be determined if the state law of the state were applied, with respect to any week for which the individual is (disregarding this section) otherwise entitled under the state law to receive regular compensation, as if such state law had been modified in a manner such that the amount of regular compensation (including dependents' allowances) payable for any week shall be equal to-- (a) the amount determined under the state law (before the application of this paragraph), plus (b) an additional amount of $600 (in this section referred to as ``federal pandemic unemployment compensation''). (2) allowable methods of payment.--any federal pandemic unemployment compensation provided for in accordance with paragraph (1) shall be payable either-- (a) as an amount which is paid at the same time and in the same manner as any regular compensation otherwise payable for the week involved; or (b) at the option of the state, by payments which are made separately from, but on the same weekly basis as, any regular compensation otherwise payable. (c) nonreduction rule.-- (1) in general.--an agreement under this section shall not apply (or shall cease to apply) with respect to a state upon a determination by the secretary that the method governing the computation of regular compensation under the [[page h1742]] state law of that state has been modified in a manner such that the number of weeks (the maximum benefit entitlement), or the average weekly benefit amount, of regular compensation which will be payable during the period of the agreement (determined disregarding any federal pandemic unemployment compensation) will be less than the number of weeks, or the average weekly benefit amount, of the average weekly benefit amount of regular compensation which would otherwise have been payable during such period under the state law, as in effect on january 1, 2020. (2) maximum benefit entitlement.--in paragraph (1), the term ``maximum benefit entitlement'' means the amount of regular unemployment compensation payable to an individual with respect to the individual's benefit year. (d) payments to states.-- (1) in general.-- (a) full reimbursement.--there shall be paid to each state which has entered into an agreement under this section an amount equal to 100 percent of-- (i) the total amount of federal pandemic unemployment compensation paid to individuals by the state pursuant to such agreement; and (ii) any additional administrative expenses incurred by the state by reason of such agreement (as determined by the secretary). (b) terms of payments.--sums payable to any state by reason of such state's having an agreement under this section shall be payable, either in advance or by way of reimbursement (as determined by the secretary), in such amounts as the secretary estimates the state will be entitled to receive under this section for each calendar month, reduced or increased, as the case may be, by any amount by which the secretary finds that his estimates for any prior calendar month were greater or less than the amounts which should have been paid to the state. such estimates may be made on the basis of such statistical, sampling, or other method as may be agreed upon by the secretary and the state agency of the state involved. (2) certifications.--the secretary shall from time to time certify to the secretary of the treasury for payment to each state the sums payable to such state under this section. (3) appropriation.--there are appropriated from the general fund of the treasury, without fiscal year limitation, such sums as may be necessary for purposes of this subsection. (e) applicability.--an agreement entered into under this section shall apply to weeks of unemployment-- (1) beginning after the date on which such agreement is entered into; and (2) ending on or before july 31, 2020. (f) fraud and overpayments.-- (1) in general.--if an individual knowingly has made, or caused to be made by another, a false statement or representation of a material fact, or knowingly has failed, or caused another to fail, to disclose a material fact, and as a result of such false statement or representation or of such nondisclosure such individual has received an amount of federal pandemic unemployment compensation to which such individual was not entitled, such individual-- (a) shall be ineligible for further federal pandemic unemployment compensation in accordance with the provisions of the applicable state unemployment compensation law relating to fraud in connection with a claim for unemployment compensation; and (b) shall be subject to prosecution under section 1001 of title 18, united states code. (2) repayment.--in the case of individuals who have received amounts of federal pandemic unemployment compensation to which they were not entitled, the state shall require such individuals to repay the amounts of such federal pandemic unemployment compensation to the state agency, except that the state agency may waive such repayment if it determines that-- (a) the payment of such federal pandemic unemployment compensation was without fault on the part of any such individual; and (b) such repayment would be contrary to equity and good conscience. (3) recovery by state agency.-- (a) in general.--the state agency shall recover the amount to be repaid, or any part thereof, by deductions from any federal pandemic unemployment compensation payable to such individual or from any unemployment compensation payable to such individual under any state or federal unemployment compensation law administered by the state agency or under any other state or federal law administered by the state agency which provides for the payment of any assistance or allowance with respect to any week of unemployment, during the 3-year period after the date such individuals received the payment of the federal pandemic unemployment compensation to which they were not entitled, in accordance with the same procedures as apply to the recovery of overpayments of regular unemployment benefits paid by the state. (b) opportunity for hearing.--no repayment shall be required, and no deduction shall be made, until a determination has been made, notice thereof and an opportunity for a fair hearing has been given to the individual, and the determination has become final. (4) review.--any determination by a state agency under this section shall be subject to review in the same manner and to the same extent as determinations under the state unemployment compensation law, and only in that manner and to that extent. (g) application to other unemployment benefits.--each agreement under this section shall include provisions to provide that the purposes of the preceding provisions of this section shall be applied with respect to unemployment benefits described in subsection (i)(2) to the same extent and in the same manner as if those benefits were regular compensation. (h) disregard of additional compensation for purposes of medicaid and chip.--the monthly equivalent of any federal pandemic unemployment compensation paid to an individual under this section shall be disregarded when determining income for any purpose under the programs established under titles xix and title xxi of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1396 et seq., 1397aa et seq.) . (i) definitions.--for purposes of this section-- (1) the terms ``compensation'', ``regular compensation'', ``benefit year'', ``state'', ``state agency'', ``state law'', and ``week'' have the respective meanings given such terms under section 205 of the federal-state extended unemployment compensation act of 1970 (26 u.s.c. 3304 note); and (2) any reference to unemployment benefits described in this paragraph shall be considered to refer to-- (a) extended compensation (as defined by section 205 of the federal-state extended unemployment compensation act of 1970); (b) regular compensation (as defined by section 85(b) of the internal revenue code of 1986) provided under any program administered by a state under an agreement with the secretary; (c) pandemic unemployment assistance under section 2102; and (d) pandemic emergency unemployment compensation under section 2107. sec. 2105. temporary full federal funding of the first week of compensable regular unemployment for states with no waiting week. (a) federal-state agreements.--any state which desires to do so may enter into and participate in an agreement under this section with the secretary of labor (in this section referred to as the ``secretary''). any state which is a party to an agreement under this section may, upon providing 30 days' written notice to the secretary, terminate such agreement. (b) requirement that state law does not apply a waiting week.--a state is eligible to enter into an agreement under this section if the state law (including a waiver of state law) provides that compensation is paid to individuals for their first week of regular unemployment without a waiting week. an agreement under this section shall not apply (or shall cease to apply) with respect to a state upon a determination by the secretary that the state law no longer meets the requirement under the preceding sentence. (c) payments to states.-- (1) full reimbursement.--there shall be paid to each state which has entered into an agreement under this section an amount equal to 100 percent of-- (a) the total amount of regular compensation paid to individuals by the state for their first week of regular unemployment; and (b) any additional administrative expenses incurred by the state by reason of such agreement (as determined by the secretary). (2) terms of payments.--sums payable to any state by reason of such state's having an agreement under this section shall be payable, either in advance or by way of reimbursement (as determined by the secretary), in such amounts as the secretary estimates the state will be entitled to receive under this section for each calendar month, reduced or increased, as the case may be, by any amount by which the secretary finds that his estimates for any prior calendar month were greater or less than the amounts which should have been paid to the state. such estimates may be made on the basis of such statistical, sampling, or other method as may be agreed upon by the secretary and the state agency of the state involved. (d) funding.-- (1) compensation.-- (a) in general.--funds in the federal unemployment account (as established by section 905(g)) of the unemployment trust fund (as established by section 904(a)) shall be used to make payments under subsection (c)(1)(a). (b) transfer of funds.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of the treasury shall transfer from the general fund of the treasury (from funds not otherwise appropriated) to the federal unemployment account such sums as the secretary of labor estimates to be necessary to make payments described in subparagraph (a). there are appropriated from the general fund of the treasury, without fiscal year limitation, the sums referred to in the preceding sentence and such sums shall not be required to be repaid. (2) administrative expenses.-- (a) in general.--funds in the employment security administration account (as established by section 901(a) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1105(a)) of the unemployment trust fund (as established by section 904(a) of such act (42 u.s.c. 1104(a)) shall be used to make payments to states pursuant to subsection (c)(1)(b). (b) transfer of funds.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of the treasury shall transfer from the general fund of the treasury (from funds not otherwise appropriated) to the employment security administration account such sums as the secretary of labor estimates to be necessary to make payments described in subparagraph (a). there are appropriated from the general fund of the treasury, without fiscal year limitation, the sums referred to in the preceding sentence and such sums shall not be required to be repaid. (3) certifications.--the secretary shall from time to time certify to the secretary of the treasury for payment to each state the sums payable to such state under this section. (e) applicability.--an agreement entered into under this section shall apply to weeks of unemployment-- [[page h1743]] (1) beginning after the date on which such agreement is entered into; and (2) ending on or before december 31, 2020. (f) fraud and overpayments.--the provisions of section 2107(e) shall apply with respect to compensation paid under an agreement under this section to the same extent and in the same manner as in the case of pandemic emergency unemployment compensation under such section. (g) definitions.--for purposes of this section, the terms ``regular compensation'', ``state'', ``state agency'', ``state law'', and ``week'' have the respective meanings given such terms under section 205 of the federal-state extended unemployment compensation act of 1970 (26 u.s.c. 3304 note). sec. 2106. emergency state staffing flexibility. section 4102(b) of the emergency unemployment stabilization and access act of 2020 (contained in division d of the families first coronavirus response act) is amended-- (1) by striking ``or employer experience rating'' and inserting ``employer experience rating, or, subject to the succeeding sentence, personnel standards on a merit basis''; and (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``the emergency flexibility for personnel standards on a merit basis shall only apply through december 31, 2020, and is limited to engaging of temporary staff, rehiring of retirees or former employees on a non-competitive basis, and other temporary actions to quickly process applications and claims.''. sec. 2107. pandemic emergency unemployment compensation. (a) federal-state agreements.-- (1) in general.--any state which desires to do so may enter into and participate in an agreement under this section with the secretary of labor (in this section referred to as the ``secretary''). any state which is a party to an agreement under this section may, upon providing 30 days' written notice to the secretary, terminate such agreement. (2) provisions of agreement.--any agreement under paragraph (1) shall provide that the state agency of the state will make payments of pandemic emergency unemployment compensation to individuals who-- (a) have exhausted all rights to regular compensation under the state law or under federal law with respect to a benefit year (excluding any benefit year that ended before july1, 2019); (b) have no rights to regular compensation with respect to a week under such law or any other state unemployment compensation law or to compensation under any other federal law; (c) are not receiving compensation with respect to such week under the unemployment compensation law of canada; and (d) are able to work, available to work, and actively seeking work. (3) exhaustion of benefits.--for purposes of paragraph (2)(a), an individual shall be deemed to have exhausted such individual's rights to regular compensation under a state law when-- (a) no payments of regular compensation can be made under such law because such individual has received all regular compensation available to such individual based on employment or wages during such individual's base period; or (b) such individual's rights to such compensation have been terminated by reason of the expiration of the benefit year with respect to which such rights existed. (4) weekly benefit amount, etc.--for purposes of any agreement under this section-- (a) the amount of pandemic emergency unemployment compensation which shall be payable to any individual for any week of total unemployment shall be equal to-- (i) the amount of the regular compensation (including dependents' allowances) payable to such individual during such individual's benefit year under the state law for a week of total unemployment; and (ii) the amount of federal pandemic unemployment compensation under section 2104; (b) the terms and conditions of the state law which apply to claims for regular compensation and to the payment thereof (including terms and conditions relating to availability for work, active search for work, and refusal to accept work) shall apply to claims for pandemic emergency unemployment compensation and the payment thereof, except where otherwise inconsistent with the provisions of this section or with the regulations or operating instructions of the secretary promulgated to carry out this section; (c) the maximum amount of pandemic emergency unemployment compensation payable to any individual for whom an pandemic emergency unemployment compensation account is established under subsection (b) shall not exceed the amount established in such account for such individual; and (d) the allowable methods of payment under section 2104(b)(2) shall apply to payments of amounts described in subparagraph (a)(ii). (5) coordination rule.--an agreement under this section shall apply with respect to a state only upon a determination by the secretary that, under the state law or other applicable rules of such state, the payment of extended compensation for which an individual is otherwise eligible must be deferred until after the payment of any pandemic emergency unemployment compensation under subsection (b) for which the individual is concurrently eligible. (6) nonreduction rule.-- (a) in general.--an agreement under this section shall not apply (or shall cease to apply) with respect to a state upon a determination by the secretary that the method governing the computation of regular compensation under the state law of that state has been modified in a manner such that the number of weeks (the maximum benefit entitlement), or the average weekly benefit amount, of regular compensation which will be payable during the period of the agreement will be less than the number of weeks, or the average weekly benefit amount, of the average weekly benefit amount of regular compensation which would otherwise have been payable during such period under the state law, as in effect on january 1, 2020. (b) maximum benefit entitlement.--in subparagraph (a), the term ``maximum benefit entitlement'' means the amount of regular unemployment compensation payable to an individual with respect to the individual's benefit year. (7) actively seeking work.-- (a) in general.--subject to subparagraph (c), for purposes of paragraph (2)(d), the term ``actively seeking work'' means, with respect to any individual, that such individual-- (i) is registered for employment services in such a manner and to such extent as prescribed by the state agency; (ii) has engaged in an active search for employment that is appropriate in light of the employment available in the labor market, the individual's skills and capabilities, and includes a number of employer contacts that is consistent with the standards communicated to the individual by the state; (iii) has maintained a record of such work search, including employers contacted, method of contact, and date contacted; and (iv) when requested, has provided such work search record to the state agency. (b) flexibility.--notwithstanding the requirements under subparagraph (a) and paragraph (2)(d), a state shall provide flexibility in meeting such requirements in case of individuals unable to search for work because of covid-19, including because of illness, quarantine, or movement restriction. (b) pandemic emergency unemployment compensation account.-- (1) in general.--any agreement under this section shall provide that the state will establish, for each eligible individual who files an application for pandemic emergency unemployment compensation, an pandemic emergency unemployment compensation account with respect to such individual's benefit year. (2) amount in account.--the amount established in an account under subsection (a) shall be equal to 13 times the individual's average weekly benefit amount, which includes the amount of federal pandemic unemployment compensation under section 2104, for the benefit year. (3) weekly benefit amount.--for purposes of this subsection, an individual's weekly benefit amount for any week is the amount of regular compensation (including dependents' allowances) under the state law payable to such individual for such week for total unemployment plus the amount of federal pandemic unemployment compensation under section 2104. (c) payments to states having agreements for the payment of pandemic emergency unemployment compensation.-- (1) in general.--there shall be paid to each state that has entered into an agreement under this section an amount equal to 100 percent of the pandemic emergency unemployment compensation paid to individuals by the state pursuant to such agreement. (2) treatment of reimbursable compensation.--no payment shall be made to any state under this section in respect of any compensation to the extent the state is entitled to reimbursement in respect of such compensation under the provisions of any federal law other than this section or chapter 85 of title 5, united states code. a state shall not be entitled to any reimbursement under such chapter 85 in respect of any compensation to the extent the state is entitled to reimbursement under this section in respect of such compensation. (3) determination of amount.--sums payable to any state by reason of such state having an agreement under this section shall be payable, either in advance or by way of reimbursement (as may be determined by the secretary), in such amounts as the secretary estimates the state will be entitled to receive under this section for each calendar month, reduced or increased, as the case may be, by any amount by which the secretary finds that the secretary's estimates for any prior calendar month were greater or less than the amounts which should have been paid to the state. such estimates may be made on the basis of such statistical, sampling, or other method as may be agreed upon by the secretary and the state agency of the state involved. (d) financing provisions.-- (1) compensation.-- (a) in general.--funds in the extended unemployment compensation account (as established by section 905(a) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1105(a)) of the unemployment trust fund (as established by section 904(a) of such act (42 u.s.c. 1104(a)) shall be used for the making of payments to states having agreements entered into under this section. (b) transfer of funds.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of the treasury shall transfer from the general fund of the treasury (from funds not otherwise appropriated) to the extended unemployment compensation account such sums as the secretary of labor estimates to be necessary to make payments described in subparagraph (a). there are appropriated from the general fund of the treasury, without fiscal year limitation, the sums referred to in the preceding sentence and such sums shall not be required to be repaid. (2) administration.-- (a) in general.--there are appropriated out of the employment security administration account (as established by section 901(a) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1101(a)) of the unemployment trust fund, without fiscal year [[page h1744]] limitation, such funds as may be necessary for purposes of assisting states (as provided in title iii of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 501 et seq.)) in meeting the costs of administration of agreements under this section. (b) transfer of funds.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of the treasury shall transfer from the general fund of the treasury (from funds not otherwise appropriated) to the employment security administration account such sums as the secretary of labor estimates to be necessary to make payments described in subparagraph (a). there are appropriated from the general fund of the treasury, without fiscal year limitation, the sums referred to in the preceding sentence and such sums shall not be required to be repaid. (3) certification.--the secretary shall from time to time certify to the secretary of the treasury for payment to each state the sums payable to such state under this subsection. the secretary of the treasury, prior to audit or settlement by the government accountability office, shall make payments to the state in accordance with such certification, by transfers from the extended unemployment compensation account (as so established) to the account of such state in the unemployment trust fund (as so established). (e) fraud and overpayments.-- (1) in general.--if an individual knowingly has made, or caused to be made by another, a false statement or representation of a material fact, or knowingly has failed, or caused another to fail, to disclose a material fact, and as a result of such false statement or representation or of such nondisclosure such individual has received an amount of pandemic emergency unemployment compensation under this section to which such individual was not entitled, such individual-- (a) shall be ineligible for further pandemic emergency unemployment compensation under this section in accordance with the provisions of the applicable state unemployment compensation law relating to fraud in connection with a claim for unemployment compensation; and (b) shall be subject to prosecution under section 1001 of title 18, united states code. (2) repayment.--in the case of individuals who have received amounts of pandemic emergency unemployment compensation under this section to which they were not entitled, the state shall require such individuals to repay the amounts of such pandemic emergency unemployment compensation to the state agency, except that the state agency may waive such repayment if it determines that-- (a) the payment of such pandemic emergency unemployment compensation was without fault on the part of any such individual; and (b) such repayment would be contrary to equity and good conscience. (3) recovery by state agency.-- (a) in general.--the state agency shall recover the amount to be repaid, or any part thereof, by deductions from any pandemic emergency unemployment compensation payable to such individual under this section or from any unemployment compensation payable to such individual under any state or federal unemployment compensation law administered by the state agency or under any other state or federal law administered by the state agency which provides for the payment of any assistance or allowance with respect to any week of unemployment, during the 3-year period after the date such individuals received the payment of the pandemic emergency unemployment compensation to which they were not entitled, in accordance with the same procedures as apply to the recovery of overpayments of regular unemployment benefits paid by the state. (b) opportunity for hearing.--no repayment shall be required, and no deduction shall be made, until a determination has been made, notice thereof and an opportunity for a fair hearing has been given to the individual, and the determination has become final. (4) review.--any determination by a state agency under this section shall be subject to review in the same manner and to the same extent as determinations under the state unemployment compensation law, and only in that manner and to that extent. (f) definitions.--in this section, the terms ``compensation'', ``regular compensation'', ``extended compensation'', ``benefit year'', ``base period'', ``state'', ``state agency'', ``state law'', and ``week'' have the respective meanings given such terms under section 205 of the federal-state extended unemployment compensation act of 1970 (26 u.s.c. 3304 note). (g) applicability.--an agreement entered into under this section shall apply to weeks of unemployment-- (1) beginning after the date on which such agreement is entered into; and (2) ending on or before december 31, 2020. sec. 2108. temporary financing of short-time compensation payments in states with programs in law. (a) payments to states.-- (1) in general.--subject to paragraph (3), there shall be paid to a state an amount equal to 100 percent of the amount of short-time compensation paid under a short-time compensation program (as defined in section 3306(v) of the internal revenue code of 1986) under the provisions of the state law. (2) terms of payments.--payments made to a state under paragraph (1) shall be payable by way of reimbursement in such amounts as the secretary estimates the state will be entitled to receive under this section for each calendar month, reduced or increased, as the case may be, by any amount by which the secretary finds that the secretary's estimates for any prior calendar month were greater or less than the amounts which should have been paid to the state. such estimates may be made on the basis of such statistical, sampling, or other method as may be agreed upon by the secretary and the state agency of the state involved. (3) limitations on payments.-- (a) general payment limitations.--no payments shall be made to a state under this section for short-time compensation paid to an individual by the state during a benefit year in excess of 26 times the amount of regular compensation (including dependents' allowances) under the state law payable to such individual for a week of total unemployment. (b) employer limitations.--no payments shall be made to a state under this section for benefits paid to an individual by the state under a short-time compensation program if such individual is employed by the participating employer on a seasonal, temporary, or intermittent basis. (b) applicability.--payments to a state under subsection (a) shall be available for weeks of unemployment-- (1) beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this act; and (2) ending on or before december 31, 2020. (c) new programs.--subject to subsection (b)(2), if at any point after the date of the enactment of this act the state enacts a state law providing for the payment of short-time compensation under a short-time compensation program that meets the definition of such a program under section 3306(v) of the internal revenue code of 1986, the state shall be eligible for payments under this section after the effective date of such enactment. (d) funding and certifications.-- (1) funding.--there are appropriated, out of moneys in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be necessary for purposes of carrying out this section. (2) certifications.--the secretary shall from time to time certify to the secretary of the treasury for payment to each state the sums payable to such state under this section. (e) definitions.--in this section: (1) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of labor. (2) state; state agency; state law.--the terms ``state'', ``state agency'', and ``state law'' have the meanings given those terms in section 205 of the federal-state extended unemployment compensation act of 1970 (26 u.s.c. 3304 note). (f) technical correction to definition.--section 3306(v)(6) of the internal revenue code of 1986 (26 u.s.c. 3306) is amended by striking ``workforce investment act of 1998'' and inserting ``workforce innovation and opportunity act''. sec. 2109. temporary financing of short-time compensation agreements. (a) federal-state agreements.-- (1) in general.--any state which desires to do so may enter into, and participate in, an agreement under this section with the secretary provided that such state's law does not provide for the payment of short-time compensation under a short-time compensation program (as defined in section 3306(v) of the internal revenue code of 1986). (2) ability to terminate.--any state which is a party to an agreement under this section may, upon providing 30 days' written notice to the secretary, terminate such agreement. (b) provisions of federal-state agreement.-- (1) in general.--any agreement under this section shall provide that the state agency of the state will make payments of short-time compensation under a plan approved by the state. such plan shall provide that payments are made in accordance with the requirements under section 3306(v) of the internal revenue code of 1986. (2) limitations on plans.-- (a) general payment limitations.--a short-time compensation plan approved by a state shall not permit the payment of short-time compensation to an individual by the state during a benefit year in excess of 26 times the amount of regular compensation (including dependents' allowances) under the state law payable to such individual for a week of total unemployment. (b) employer limitations.--a short-time compensation plan approved by a state shall not provide payments to an individual if such individual is employed by the participating employer on a seasonal, temporary, or intermittent basis. (3) employer payment of costs.--any short-time compensation plan entered into by an employer must provide that the employer will pay the state an amount equal to one-half of the amount of short-time compensation paid under such plan. such amount shall be deposited in the state's unemployment fund and shall not be used for purposes of calculating an employer's contribution rate under section 3303(a)(1) of the internal revenue code of 1986. (c) payments to states.-- (1) in general.--there shall be paid to each state with an agreement under this section an amount equal to-- (a) one-half of the amount of short-time compensation paid to individuals by the state pursuant to such agreement; and (b) any additional administrative expenses incurred by the state by reason of such agreement (as determined by the secretary). (2) terms of payments.--payments made to a state under paragraph (1) shall be payable by way of reimbursement in such amounts as the secretary estimates the state will be entitled to receive under this section for each calendar month, reduced or increased, as the case may be, by any amount by which the secretary finds that the secretary's estimates for any prior calendar month were greater or less than the amounts which should have been paid to the state. such estimates may be made on the basis of such statistical, sampling, or other method as may be agreed upon by the secretary and the state agency of the state involved. [[page h1745]] (3) funding.--there are appropriated, out of moneys in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be necessary for purposes of carrying out this section. (4) certifications.--the secretary shall from time to time certify to the secretary of the treasury for payment to each state the sums payable to such state under this section. (d) applicability.--an agreement entered into under this section shall apply to weeks of unemployment-- (1) beginning on or after the date on which such agreement is entered into; and (2) ending on or before december 31, 2020. (e) special rule.--if a state has entered into an agreement under this section and subsequently enacts a state law providing for the payment of short-time compensation under a short-time compensation program that meets the definition of such a program under section 3306(v) of the internal revenue code of 1986, the state-- (1) shall not be eligible for payments under this section for weeks of unemployment beginning after the effective date of such state law; and (2) subject to section 2108(b)(2), shall be eligible to receive payments under section 2108 after the effective date of such state law. (f) definitions.--in this section: (1) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of labor. (2) state; state agency; state law.--the terms ``state'', ``state agency'', and ``state law'' have the meanings given those terms in section 205 of the federal-state extended unemployment compensation act of 1970 (26 u.s.c. 3304 note). sec. 2110. grants for short-time compensation programs. (a) grants.-- (1) for implementation or improved administration.--the secretary shall award grants to states that enact short-time compensation programs (as defined in subsection (i)(2)) for the purpose of implementation or improved administration of such programs. (2) for promotion and enrollment.--the secretary shall award grants to states that are eligible and submit plans for a grant under paragraph (1) for such states to promote and enroll employers in short-time compensation programs (as so defined). (3) eligibility.-- (a) in general.--the secretary shall determine eligibility criteria for the grants under paragraphs (1) and (2). (b) clarification.--a state administering a short-time compensation program that does not meet the definition of a short-time compensation program under section 3306(v) of the internal revenue code of 1986, and a state with an agreement under section 2109, shall not be eligible to receive a grant under this section until such time as the state law of the state provides for payments under a short-time compensation program that meets such definition and such law. (b) amount of grants.-- (1) in general.--the maximum amount available for making grants to a state under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be equal to the amount obtained by multiplying $100,000,000 (less the amount used by the secretary under subsection (e)) by the same ratio as would apply under subsection (a)(2)(b) of section 903 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1103) for purposes of determining such state's share of any excess amount (as described in subsection (a)(1) of such section) that would have been subject to transfer to state accounts, as of october 1, 2019, under the provisions of subsection (a) of such section. (2) amount available for different grants.--of the maximum incentive payment determined under paragraph (1) with respect to a state-- (a) one-third shall be available for a grant under subsection (a)(1); and (b) two-thirds shall be available for a grant under subsection (a)(2). (c) grant application and disbursal.-- (1) application.--any state seeking a grant under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a) shall submit an application to the secretary at such time, in such manner, and complete with such information as the secretary may require. in no case may the secretary award a grant under this section with respect to an application that is submitted after december 31, 2023. (2) notice.--the secretary shall, within 30 days after receiving a complete application, notify the state agency of the state of the secretary's findings with respect to the requirements for a grant under paragraph (1) or (2) (or both) of subsection (a). (3) certification.--if the secretary finds that the state law provisions meet the requirements for a grant under subsection (a), the secretary shall thereupon make a certification to that effect to the secretary of the treasury, together with a certification as to the amount of the grant payment to be transferred to the state account in the unemployment trust fund (as established in section 904(a) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1104(a))) pursuant to that finding. the secretary of the treasury shall make the appropriate transfer to the state account within 7 days after receiving such certification. (4) requirement.--no certification of compliance with the requirements for a grant under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a) may be made with respect to any state whose-- (a) state law is not otherwise eligible for certification under section 303 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 503) or approvable under section 3304 of the internal revenue code of 1986; or (b) short-time compensation program is subject to discontinuation or is not scheduled to take effect within 12 months of the certification. (d) use of funds.--the amount of any grant awarded under this section shall be used for the implementation of short- time compensation programs and the overall administration of such programs and the promotion and enrollment efforts associated with such programs, such as through-- (1) the creation or support of rapid response teams to advise employers about alternatives to layoffs; (2) the provision of education or assistance to employers to enable them to assess the feasibility of participating in short-time compensation programs; and (3) the development or enhancement of systems to automate-- (a) the submission and approval of plans; and (b) the filing and approval of new and ongoing short-time compensation claims. (e) administration.--the secretary is authorized to use 0.25 percent of the funds available under subsection (g) to provide for outreach and to share best practices with respect to this section and short-time compensation programs. (f) recoupment.--the secretary shall establish a process under which the secretary shall recoup the amount of any grant awarded under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a) if the secretary determines that, during the 5-year period beginning on the first date that any such grant is awarded to the state, the state-- (1) terminated the state's short-time compensation program; or (2) failed to meet appropriate requirements with respect to such program (as established by the secretary). (g) funding.--there are appropriated, out of moneys in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the secretary, $100,000,000 to carry out this section, to remain available without fiscal year limitation. (h) reporting.--the secretary may establish reporting requirements for states receiving a grant under this section in order to provide oversight of grant funds. (i) definitions.--in this section: (1) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of labor. (2) short-time compensation program.--the term ``short-time compensation program'' has the meaning given such term in section 3306(v) of the internal revenue code of 1986. (3) state; state agency; state law.--the terms ``state'', ``state agency'', and ``state law'' have the meanings given those terms in section 205 of the federal-state extended unemployment compensation act of 1970 (26 u.s.c. 3304 note). sec. 2111. assistance and guidance in implementing programs. (a) in general.--in order to assist states in establishing, qualifying, and implementing short-time compensation programs (as defined in section 3306(v) of the internal revenue code of 1986), the secretary of labor (in this section referred to as the ``secretary'') shall-- (1) develop model legislative language, or disseminate existing model legislative language, which may be used by states in developing and enacting such programs, and periodically review and revise such model legislative language; (2) provide technical assistance and guidance in developing, enacting, and implementing such programs; and (3) establish reporting requirements for states, including reporting on-- (a) the number of estimated averted layoffs; (b) the number of participating employers and workers; and (c) such other items as the secretary of labor determines are appropriate. (b) model language and guidance.--the model language and guidance developed under subsection (a) shall allow sufficient flexibility by states and participating employers while ensuring accountability and program integrity. (c) consultation.--in developing the model legislative language and guidance under subsection (a), and in order to meet the requirements of subsection (b), the secretary shall consult with employers, labor organizations, state workforce agencies, and other program experts. existing model legislative language that has been developed through such a consultative process shall be deemed to meet the consultation requirement of this subsection. (d) repeal.--section 4104 of the emergency unemployment stabilization and access act of 2020 (contained in division d of the families first coronavirus response act) is repealed. sec. 2112. waiver of the 7-day waiting period for benefits under the railroad unemployment insurance act. (a) no waiting week.--with respect to any registration period beginning after the date of enactment of this act and ending on or before december 31, 2020, subparagraphs (a)(ii) and (b)(ii) of section 2(a)(1) of the railroad unemployment insurance act (45 u.s.c. 352(a)(1)) shall not apply. (b) operating instructions and regulations.--the railroad retirement board may prescribe any operating instructions or regulations necessary to carry out this section. (c) funding.--out of any funds in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated $50,000,000 to cover the costs of additional benefits payable due to the application of subsection (a). upon the exhaustion of the funds appropriated under this subsection, subsection (a) shall no longer apply with respect to any registration period beginning after the date of exhaustion of funds. (d) definition of registration period.--for purposes of this section, the term ``registration period'' has the meaning given such term under section 1 of the railroad unemployment insurance act (45 u.s.c. 351). sec. 2113. enhanced benefits under the railroad unemployment insurance act. section 2(a) of the railroad unemployment insurance act (45 u.s.c. sec. 352(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following: [[page h1746]] ``(5)(a) notwithstanding paragraph (3), subsection (c)(1)(b), and any other limitation on total benefits in this act, for registration periods beginning on or after april 1, 2020, but on or before july 31, 2020, a recovery benefit in the amount of $1,200 shall be payable to a qualified employee with respect to any registration period in which the employee received unemployment benefits under paragraph (1)(a), and in any registration period in which the employee did not receive unemployment benefits due to the limitation in subsection (c)(1)(b) or due to reaching the maximum number of days of benefits in the benefit year beginning july 1, 2019, under subsection (c)(1)(a). no recovery benefits shall be payable under this section upon the exhaustion of the funds appropriated under subparagraph (b) for payment of benefits under this subparagraph. ``(b) out of any funds in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated $425,000,000 to cover the cost of recovery benefits provided under subparagraph (a), to remain available until expended.''. sec. 2114. extended unemployment benefits under the railroad unemployment insurance act. (a) extension.--section 2(c)(2)(d)(iii) of the railroad unemployment insurance act (45 u.s.c. 352(c)(2)(d)(iii) is amended-- (1) by striking ``july 1, 2008'' and inserting ``july 1, 2019''; (2) by striking ``june 30, 2013'' and inserting ``june 30, 2020''; and (3) by striking ``december 31, 2013'' and inserting ``december 31, 2020''. (b) clarification on authority to use funds.--funds appropriated under either the first or second sentence of clause (iv) of section 2(c)(2)(d) of the railroad unemployment insurance act shall be available to cover the cost of additional extended unemployment benefits provided under such section 2(c)(2)(d) by reason of the amendments made by subsection (a) as well as to cover the cost of such benefits provided under such section 2(c)(2)(d) as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this act. sec. 2115. funding for the dol office of inspector general for oversight of unemployment provisions. there are appropriated, out of moneys in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the office of the inspector general of the department of labor, $25,000,000 to carry out audits, investigations, and other oversight activities authorized under the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.) that are related to the provisions of, and amendments made by, this subtitle, to remain available without fiscal year limitation. sec. 2116. implementation. (a) non-application of the paperwork reduction act.-- chapter 35 of title 44, united states code (commonly referred to as the ``paperwork reduction act of 1995''), shall not apply to the provisions of, and the amendments made by, this subtitle. (b) operating instructions or other guidance.-- notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of labor may issue any operating instructions or other guidance necessary to carry out the provisions of, or the amendments made by, this subtitle. subtitle b--rebates and other individual provisions sec. 2201. 2020 recovery rebates for individuals. (a) in general.--subchapter b of chapter 65 of subtitle f of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by inserting after section 6427 the following new section: ``sec. 6428. 2020 recovery rebates for individuals. ``(a) in general.--in the case of an eligible individual, there shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by subtitle a for the first taxable year beginning in 2020 an amount equal to the sum of-- ``(1) $1,200 ($2,400 in the case of eligible individuals filing a joint return), plus ``(2) an amount equal to the product of $500 multiplied by the number of qualifying children (within the meaning of section 24(c)) of the taxpayer. ``(b) treatment of credit.--the credit allowed by subsection (a) shall be treated as allowed by subpart c of part iv of subchapter a of chapter 1. ``(c) limitation based on adjusted gross income.--the amount of the credit allowed by subsection (a) (determined without regard to this subsection and subsection (e)) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by 5 percent of so much of the taxpayer's adjusted gross income as exceeds-- ``(1) $150,000 in the case of a joint return, ``(2) $112,500 in the case of a head of household, and ``(3) $75,000 in the case of a taxpayer not described in paragraph (1) or (2). ``(d) eligible individual.--for purposes of this section, the term `eligible individual' means any individual other than-- ``(1) any nonresident alien individual, ``(2) any individual with respect to whom a deduction under section 151 is allowable to another taxpayer for a taxable year beginning in the calendar year in which the individual's taxable year begins, and ``(3) an estate or trust. ``(e) coordination with advance refunds of credit.-- ``(1) in general.--the amount of credit which would (but for this paragraph) be allowable under this section shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the aggregate refunds and credits made or allowed to the taxpayer under subsection (f). any failure to so reduce the credit shall be treated as arising out of a mathematical or clerical error and assessed according to section 6213(b)(1). ``(2) joint returns.--in the case of a refund or credit made or allowed under subsection (f) with respect to a joint return, half of such refund or credit shall be treated as having been made or allowed to each individual filing such return. ``(f) advance refunds and credits.-- ``(1) in general.--subject to paragraph (5), each individual who was an eligible individual for such individual's first taxable year beginning in 2019 shall be treated as having made a payment against the tax imposed by chapter 1 for such taxable year in an amount equal to the advance refund amount for such taxable year. ``(2) advance refund amount.--for purposes of paragraph (1), the advance refund amount is the amount that would have been allowed as a credit under this section for such taxable year if this section (other than subsection (e) and this subsection) had applied to such taxable year. ``(3) timing and manner of payments.-- ``(a) timing.--the secretary shall, subject to the provisions of this title, refund or credit any overpayment attributable to this section as rapidly as possible. no refund or credit shall be made or allowed under this subsection after december 31, 2020. ``(b) delivery of payments.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary may certify and disburse refunds payable under this subsection electronically to any account to which the payee authorized, on or after january 1, 2018, the delivery of a refund of taxes under this title or of a federal payment (as defined in section 3332 of title 31, united states code). ``(c) waiver of certain rules.--notwithstanding section 3325 of title 31, united states code, or any other provision of law, with respect to any payment of a refund under this subsection, a disbursing official in the executive branch of the united states government may modify payment information received from an officer or employee described in section 3325(a)(1)(b) of such title for the purpose of facilitating the accurate and efficient delivery of such payment. except in cases of fraud or reckless neglect, no liability under sections 3325, 3527, 3528, or 3529 of title 31, united states code, shall be imposed with respect to payments made under this subparagraph. ``(4) no interest.--no interest shall be allowed on any overpayment attributable to this section. ``(5) alternate taxable year.--in the case of an individual who, at the time of any determination made pursuant to paragraph (3), has not filed a tax return for the year described in paragraph (1), the secretary may-- ``(a) apply such paragraph by substituting `2018' for `2019', and ``(b) if the individual has not filed a tax return for such individual's first taxable year beginning in 2018, use information with respect to such individual for calendar year 2019 provided in-- ``(i) form ssa-1099, social security benefit statement, or ``(ii) form rrb-1099, social security equivalent benefit statement. ``(6) notice to taxpayer.--not later than 15 days after the date on which the secretary distributed any payment to an eligible taxpayer pursuant to this subsection, notice shall be sent by mail to such taxpayer's last known address. such notice shall indicate the method by which such payment was made, the amount of such payment, and a phone number for the appropriate point of contact at the internal revenue service to report any failure to receive such payment. ``(g) identification number requirement.-- ``(1) in general.--no credit shall be allowed under subsection (a) to an eligible individual who does not include on the return of tax for the taxable year-- ``(a) such individual's valid identification number, ``(b) in the case of a joint return, the valid identification number of such individual's spouse, and ``(c) in the case of any qualifying child taken into account under subsection (a)(2), the valid identification number of such qualifying child. ``(2) valid identification number.-- ``(a) in general.--for purposes of paragraph (1), the term `valid identification number' means a social security number (as such term is defined in section 24(h)(7)). ``(b) adoption taxpayer identification number.--for purposes of paragraph (1)(c), in the case of a qualifying child who is adopted or placed for adoption, the term `valid identification number' shall include the adoption taxpayer identification number of such child. ``(3) special rule for members of the armed forces.-- paragraph (1)(b) shall not apply in the case where at least 1 spouse was a member of the armed forces of the united states at any time during the taxable year and at least 1 spouse satisfies paragraph (1)(a). ``(4) mathematical or clerical error authority.--any omission of a correct valid identification number required under this subsection shall be treated as a mathematical or clerical error for purposes of applying section 6213(g)(2) to such omission. ``(h) regulations.--the secretary shall prescribe such regulations or other guidance as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section, including any such measures as are deemed appropriate to avoid allowing multiple credits or rebates to a taxpayer.''. (b) administrative amendments.-- (1) definition of deficiency.--section 6211(b)(4)(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by striking ``and 36b, 168(k)(4)'' and inserting ``36b, and 6428''. (2) mathematical or clerical error authority.--section 6213(g)(2)(l) of such code is amended by striking ``or 32'' and inserting ``32, or 6428''. (c) treatment of possessions.-- [[page h1747]] (1) payments to possessions.-- (a) mirror code possession.--the secretary of the treasury shall pay to each possession of the united states which has a mirror code tax system amounts equal to the loss (if any) to that possession by reason of the amendments made by this section. such amounts shall be determined by the secretary of the treasury based on information provided by the government of the respective possession. (b) other possessions.--the secretary of the treasury shall pay to each possession of the united states which does not have a mirror code tax system amounts estimated by the secretary of the treasury as being equal to the aggregate benefits (if any) that would have been provided to residents of such possession by reason of the amendments made by this section if a mirror code tax system had been in effect in such possession. the preceding sentence shall not apply unless the respective possession has a plan, which has been approved by the secretary of the treasury, under which such possession will promptly distribute such payments to its residents. (2) coordination with credit allowed against united states income taxes.--no credit shall be allowed against united states income taxes under section 6428 of the internal revenue code of 1986 (as added by this section) to any person-- (a) to whom a credit is allowed against taxes imposed by the possession by reason of the amendments made by this section, or (b) who is eligible for a payment under a plan described in paragraph (1)(b). (3) definitions and special rules.-- (a) possession of the united states.--for purposes of this subsection, the term ``possession of the united states'' includes the commonwealth of puerto rico and the commonwealth of the northern mariana islands. (b) mirror code tax system.--for purposes of this subsection, the term ``mirror code tax system'' means, with respect to any possession of the united states, the income tax system of such possession if the income tax liability of the residents of such possession under such system is determined by reference to the income tax laws of the united states as if such possession were the united states. (c) treatment of payments.--for purposes of section 1324 of title 31, united states code, the payments under this subsection shall be treated in the same manner as a refund due from a credit provision referred to in subsection (b)(2) of such section. (d) exception from reduction or offset.--any credit or refund allowed or made to any individual by reason of section 6428 of the internal revenue code of 1986 (as added by this section) or by reason of subsection (c) of this section shall not be-- (1) subject to reduction or offset pursuant to section 3716 or 3720a of title 31, united states code, (2) subject to reduction or offset pursuant to subsection (d), (e), or (f) of section 6402 of the internal revenue code of 1986, or (3) reduced or offset by other assessed federal taxes that would otherwise be subject to levy or collection. (e) public awareness campaign.--the secretary of the treasury (or the secretary's delegate) shall conduct a public awareness campaign, in coordination with the commissioner of social security and the heads of other relevant federal agencies, to provide information regarding the availability of the credit and rebate allowed under section 6428 of the internal revenue code of 1986 (as added by this section), including information with respect to individuals who may not have filed a tax return for taxable year 2018 or 2019. (f) appropriations to carry out rebates.-- (1) in general.--immediately upon the enactment of this act, the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2020: (a) department of the treasury.-- (i) for an additional amount for ``department of the treasury--bureau of the fiscal service--salaries and expenses'', $78,650,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021. (ii) for an additional amount for ``department of the treasury--internal revenue service--taxpayer services'', $293,500,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021. (iii) for an additional amount for ``department of the treasury--internal revenue service--operations support'', $170,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021. (iv) for an additional amount for ``department of treasury--internal revenue service--enforcement'', $37,200,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021. amounts made available in appropriations under clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this subparagraph may be transferred between such appropriations upon the advance notification of the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate. such transfer authority is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law. (b) social security administration.--for an additional amount for ``social security administration--limitation on administrative expenses'', $38,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021. (2) reports.--no later than 15 days after enactment of this act, the secretary of the treasury shall submit a plan to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate detailing the expected use of the funds provided by paragraph (1)(a). beginning 90 days after enactment of this act, the secretary of the treasury shall submit a quarterly report to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate detailing the actual expenditure of funds provided by paragraph (1)(a) and the expected expenditure of such funds in the subsequent quarter. (g) conforming amendments.-- (1) paragraph (2) of section 1324(b) of title 31, united states code, is amended by inserting ``6428,'' after ``54b(h),''. (2) the table of sections for subchapter b of chapter 65 of subtitle f of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 6427 the following: ``sec. 6428. 2020 recovery rebates for individuals.''. sec. 2202. special rules for use of retirement funds. (a) tax-favored withdrawals from retirement plans.-- (1) in general.--section 72(t) of the internal revenue code of 1986 shall not apply to any coronavirus-related distribution. (2) aggregate dollar limitation.-- (a) in general.--for purposes of this subsection, the aggregate amount of distributions received by an individual which may be treated as coronavirus-related distributions for any taxable year shall not exceed $100,000. (b) treatment of plan distributions.--if a distribution to an individual would (without regard to subparagraph (a)) be a coronavirus-related distribution, a plan shall not be treated as violating any requirement of the internal revenue code of 1986 merely because the plan treats such distribution as a coronavirus-related distribution, unless the aggregate amount of such distributions from all plans maintained by the employer (and any member of any controlled group which includes the employer) to such individual exceeds $100,000. (c) controlled group.--for purposes of subparagraph (b), the term ``controlled group'' means any group treated as a single employer under subsection (b), (c), (m), or (o) of section 414 of the internal revenue code of 1986. (3) amount distributed may be repaid.-- (a) in general.--any individual who receives a coronavirus- related distribution may, at any time during the 3-year period beginning on the day after the date on which such distribution was received, make 1 or more contributions in an aggregate amount not to exceed the amount of such distribution to an eligible retirement plan of which such individual is a beneficiary and to which a rollover contribution of such distribution could be made under section 402(c), 403(a)(4), 403(b)(8), 408(d)(3), or 457(e)(16), of the internal revenue code of 1986, as the case may be. (b) treatment of repayments of distributions from eligible retirement plans other than iras.--for purposes of the internal revenue code of 1986, if a contribution is made pursuant to subparagraph (a) with respect to a coronavirus- related distribution from an eligible retirement plan other than an individual retirement plan, then the taxpayer shall, to the extent of the amount of the contribution, be treated as having received the coronavirus-related distribution in an eligible rollover distribution (as defined in section 402(c)(4) of such code) and as having transferred the amount to the eligible retirement plan in a direct trustee to trustee transfer within 60 days of the distribution. (c) treatment of repayments of distributions from iras.-- for purposes of the internal revenue code of 1986, if a contribution is made pursuant to subparagraph (a) with respect to a coronavirus-related distribution from an individual retirement plan (as defined by section 7701(a)(37) of such code), then, to the extent of the amount of the contribution, the coronavirus-related distribution shall be treated as a distribution described in section 408(d)(3) of such code and as having been transferred to the eligible retirement plan in a direct trustee to trustee transfer within 60 days of the distribution. (4) definitions.--for purposes of this subsection-- (a) coronavirus-related distribution.--except as provided in paragraph (2), the term ``coronavirus-related distribution'' means any distribution from an eligible retirement plan made-- (i) on or after january 1, 2020, and before december 31, 2020, (ii) to an individual-- (i) who is diagnosed with the virus sars-cov-2 or with coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) by a test approved by the centers for disease control and prevention, (ii) whose spouse or dependent (as defined in section 152 of the internal revenue code of 1986) is diagnosed with such virus or disease by such a test, or (iii) who experiences adverse financial consequences as a result of being quarantined, being furloughed or laid off or having work hours reduced due to such virus or disease, being unable to work due to lack of child care due to such virus or disease, closing or reducing hours of a business owned or operated by the individual due to such virus or disease, or other factors as determined by the secretary of the treasury (or the secretary's delegate). (b) employee certification.--the administrator of an eligible retirement plan may rely on an employee's certification that the employee satisfies the conditions of subparagraph (a)(ii) in determining whether any distribution is a coronavirus-related distribution. (c) eligible retirement plan.--the term ``eligible retirement plan'' has the meaning given such term by section 402(c)(8)(b) of the internal revenue code of 1986. (5) income inclusion spread over 3-year period.-- (a) in general.--in the case of any coronavirus-related distribution, unless the taxpayer elects not to have this paragraph apply for any taxable year, any amount required to be included in gross income for such taxable year shall be so included ratably over the 3-taxable-year period beginning with such taxable year. [[page h1748]] (b) special rule.--for purposes of subparagraph (a), rules similar to the rules of subparagraph (e) of section 408a(d)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986 shall apply. (6) special rules.-- (a) exemption of distributions from trustee to trustee transfer and withholding rules.--for purposes of sections 401(a)(31), 402(f), and 3405 of the internal revenue code of 1986, coronavirus-related distributions shall not be treated as eligible rollover distributions. (b) coronavirus-related distributions treated as meeting plan distribution requirements.--for purposes of the internal revenue code of 1986, a coronavirus-related distribution shall be treated as meeting the requirements of sections 401(k)(2)(b)(i), 403(b)(7)(a)(i), 403(b)(11), and 457(d)(1)(a) of such code and section 8433(h)(1) of title 5, united states code. (b) loans from qualified plans.-- (1) increase in limit on loans not treated as distributions.--in the case of any loan from a qualified employer plan (as defined under section 72(p)(4) of the internal revenue code of 1986) to a qualified individual made during the 180-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this act-- (a) clause (i) of section 72(p)(2)(a) of such code shall be applied by substituting ``$100,000'' for ``$50,000'', and (b) clause (ii) of such section shall be applied by substituting ``the present value of the nonforfeitable accrued benefit of the employee under the plan'' for ``one- half of the present value of the nonforfeitable accrued benefit of the employee under the plan''. (2) delay of repayment.--in the case of a qualified individual with an outstanding loan (on or after the date of the enactment of this act) from a qualified employer plan (as defined in section 72(p)(4) of the internal revenue code of 1986)-- (a) if the due date pursuant to subparagraph (b) or (c) of section 72(p)(2) of such code for any repayment with respect to such loan occurs during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this act and ending on december 31, 2020, such due date shall be delayed for 1 year, (b) any subsequent repayments with respect to any such loan shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect the delay in the due date under subparagraph (a) and any interest accruing during such delay, and (c) in determining the 5-year period and the term of a loan under subparagraph (b) or (c) of section 72(p)(2) of such code, the period described in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall be disregarded. (3) qualified individual.--for purposes of this subsection, the term ``qualified individual'' means any individual who is described in subsection (a)(4)(a)(ii). (c) provisions relating to plan amendments.-- (1) in general.--if this subsection applies to any amendment to any plan or annuity contract-- (a) such plan or contract shall be treated as being operated in accordance with the terms of the plan during the period described in paragraph (2)(b)(i), and (b) except as provided by the secretary of the treasury (or the secretary's delegate), such plan or contract shall not fail to meet the requirements of section 411(d)(6) of the internal revenue code of 1986 and section 204(g) of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 by reason of such amendment. (2) amendments to which subsection applies.-- (a) in general.--this subsection shall apply to any amendment to any plan or annuity contract which is made-- (i) pursuant to any provision of this section, or pursuant to any regulation issued by the secretary of the treasury or the secretary of labor (or the delegate of either such secretary) under any provision of this section, and (ii) on or before the last day of the first plan year beginning on or after january 1, 2022, or such later date as the secretary of the treasury (or the secretary's delegate) may prescribe. in the case of a governmental plan (as defined in section 414(d) of the internal revenue code of 1986), clause (ii) shall be applied by substituting the date which is 2 years after the date otherwise applied under clause (ii). (b) conditions.--this subsection shall not apply to any amendment unless-- (i) during the period-- (i) beginning on the date that this section or the regulation described in subparagraph (a)(i) takes effect (or in the case of a plan or contract amendment not required by this section or such regulation, the effective date specified by the plan), and (ii) ending on the date described in subparagraph (a)(ii) (or, if earlier, the date the plan or contract amendment is adopted), the plan or contract is operated as if such plan or contract amendment were in effect, and (ii) such plan or contract amendment applies retroactively for such period. sec. 2203. temporary waiver of required minimum distribution rules for certain retirement plans and accounts. (a) in general.--section 401(a)(9) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: ``(i) temporary waiver of minimum required distribution.-- ``(i) in general.--the requirements of this paragraph shall not apply for calendar year 2020 to-- ``(i) a defined contribution plan which is described in this subsection or in section 403(a) or 403(b), ``(ii) a defined contribution plan which is an eligible deferred compensation plan described in section 457(b) but only if such plan is maintained by an employer described in section 457(e)(1)(a), or ``(iii) an individual retirement plan. ``(ii) special rule for required beginning dates in 2020.-- clause (i) shall apply to any distribution which is required to be made in calendar year 2020 by reason of-- ``(i) a required beginning date occurring in such calendar year, and ``(ii) such distribution not having been made before january 1, 2020. ``(iii) special rules regarding waiver period.--for purposes of this paragraph-- ``(i) the required beginning date with respect to any individual shall be determined without regard to this subparagraph for purposes of applying this paragraph for calendar years after 2020, and ``(ii) if clause (ii) of subparagraph (b) applies, the 5- year period described in such clause shall be determined without regard to calendar year 2020.''. (b) eligible rollover distributions.--section 402(c)(4) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by striking ``2009'' each place it appears in the last sentence and inserting ``2020''. (c) effective dates.-- (1) in general.--the amendments made by this section shall apply for calendar years beginning after december 31, 2019. (2) provisions relating to plan or contract amendments.-- (a) in general.--if this paragraph applies to any plan or contract amendment-- (i) such plan or contract shall not fail to be treated as being operated in accordance with the terms of the plan during the period described in subparagraph (b)(ii) solely because the plan operates in accordance with this section, and (ii) except as provided by the secretary of the treasury (or the secretary's delegate), such plan or contract shall not fail to meet the requirements of section 411(d)(6) of the internal revenue code of 1986 and section 204(g) of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 by reason of such amendment. (b) amendments to which paragraph applies.-- (i) in general.--this paragraph shall apply to any amendment to any plan or annuity contract which-- (i) is made pursuant to the amendments made by this section, and (ii) is made on or before the last day of the first plan year beginning on or after january 1, 2022. in the case of a governmental plan, subclause (ii) shall be applied by substituting ``2024'' for ``2022''. (ii) conditions.--this paragraph shall not apply to any amendment unless during the period beginning on the effective date of the amendment and ending on december 31, 2020, the plan or contract is operated as if such plan or contract amendment were in effect. sec. 2204. allowance of partial above the line deduction for charitable contributions. (a) in general.--section 62(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by inserting after paragraph (21) the following new paragraph: ``(22) charitable contributions.--in the case of taxable years beginning in 2020, the amount (not to exceed $300) of qualified charitable contributions made by an eligible individual during the taxable year.''. (b) definitions.--section 62 of such code is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: ``(f) definitions relating to qualified charitable contributions.--for purposes of subsection (a)(22)-- ``(1) eligible individual.--the term `eligible individual' means any individual who does not elect to itemize deductions. ``(2) qualified charitable contributions.--the term `qualified charitable contribution' means a charitable contribution (as defined in section 170(c))-- ``(a) which is made in cash, ``(b) for which a deduction is allowable under section 170 (determined without regard to subsection (b) thereof), and ``(c) which is-- ``(i) made to an organization described in section 170(b)(1)(a), and ``(ii) not-- ``(i) to an organization described in section 509(a)(3), or ``(ii) for the establishment of a new, or maintenance of an existing, donor advised fund (as defined in section 4966(d)(2)). such term shall not include any amount which is treated as a charitable contribution made in such taxable year by reason of subsection (b)(1)(g)(ii) or (d)(1) of section 170.''. (c) effective date.--the amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after december 31, 2019. sec. 2205. modification of limitations on charitable contributions during 2020. (a) temporary suspension of limitations on certain cash contributions.-- (1) in general.--except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2), qualified contributions shall be disregarded in applying subsections (b) and (d) of section 170 of the internal revenue code of 1986. (2) treatment of excess contributions.--for purposes of section 170 of the internal revenue code of 1986-- (a) individuals.--in the case of an individual-- (i) limitation.--any qualified contribution shall be allowed as a deduction only to the extent that the aggregate of such contributions does not exceed the excess of the taxpayer's contribution base (as defined in subparagraph (h) [[page h1749]] of section 170(b)(1) of such code) over the amount of all other charitable contributions allowed under section 170(b)(1) of such code. (ii) carryover.--if the aggregate amount of qualified contributions made in the contribution year (within the meaning of section 170(d)(1) of such code) exceeds the limitation of clause (i), such excess shall be added to the excess described in section 170(b)(1)(g)(ii). (b) corporations.--in the case of a corporation-- (i) limitation.--any qualified contribution shall be allowed as a deduction only to the extent that the aggregate of such contributions does not exceed the excess of 25 percent of the taxpayer's taxable income (as determined under paragraph (2) of section 170(b) of such code) over the amount of all other charitable contributions allowed under such paragraph. (ii) carryover.--if the aggregate amount of qualified contributions made in the contribution year (within the meaning of section 170(d)(2) of such code) exceeds the limitation of clause (i), such excess shall be appropriately taken into account under section 170(d)(2) subject to the limitations thereof. (3) qualified contributions.-- (a) in general.--for purposes of this subsection, the term ``qualified contribution'' means any charitable contribution (as defined in section 170(c) of the internal revenue code of 1986) if-- (i) such contribution is paid in cash during calendar year 2020 to an organization described in section 170(b)(1)(a) of such code, and (ii) the taxpayer has elected the application of this section with respect to such contribution. (b) exception.--such term shall not include a contribution by a donor if the contribution is-- (i) to an organization described in section 509(a)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, or (ii) for the establishment of a new, or maintenance of an existing, donor advised fund (as defined in section 4966(d)(2) of such code). (c) application of election to partnerships and s corporations.--in the case of a partnership or s corporation, the election under subparagraph (a)(ii) shall be made separately by each partner or shareholder. (b) increase in limits on contributions of food inventory.--in the case of any charitable contribution of food during 2020 to which section 170(e)(3)(c) of the internal revenue code of 1986 applies, subclauses (i) and (ii) of clause (ii) thereof shall each be applied by substituting ``25 percent'' for ``15 percent.'' (c) effective date.--this section shall apply to taxable years ending after december 31, 2019. sec. 2206. exclusion for certain employer payments of student loans. (a) in general.--paragraph (1) of section 127(c) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (a), by redesignating subparagraph (b) as subparagraph (c), and by inserting after subparagraph (a) the following new subparagraph: ``(b) in the case of payments made before january 1, 2021, the payment by an employer, whether paid to the employee or to a lender, of principal or interest on any qualified education loan (as defined in section 221(d)(1)) incurred by the employee for education of the employee, and''. (b) conforming amendment; denial of double benefit.--the first sentence of paragraph (1) of section 221(e) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by inserting before the period the following: ``, or for which an exclusion is allowable under section 127 to the taxpayer by reason of the payment by the taxpayer's employer of any indebtedness on a qualified education loan of the taxpayer''. (c) effective date.--the amendments made by this section shall apply to payments made after the date of the enactment of this act. subtitle c--business provisions sec. 2301. employee retention credit for employers subject to closure due to covid-19. (a) in general.--in the case of an eligible employer, there shall be allowed as a credit against applicable employment taxes for each calendar quarter an amount equal to 50 percent of the qualified wages with respect to each employee of such employer for such calendar quarter. (b) limitations and refundability.-- (1) wages taken into account.--the amount of qualified wages with respect to any employee which may be taken into account under subsection (a) by the eligible employer for all calendar quarters shall not exceed $10,000. (2) credit limited to employment taxes.--the credit allowed by subsection (a) with respect to any calendar quarter shall not exceed the applicable employment taxes (reduced by any credits allowed under subsections (e) and (f) of section 3111 of the internal revenue code of 1986 and sections 7001 and 7003 of the families first coronavirus response act) on the wages paid with respect to the employment of all the employees of the eligible employer for such calendar quarter. (3) refundability of excess credit.-- (a) in general.--if the amount of the credit under subsection (a) exceeds the limitation of paragraph (2) for any calendar quarter, such excess shall be treated as an overpayment that shall be refunded under sections 6402(a) and 6413(b) of the internal revenue code of 1986. (b) treatment of payments.--for purposes of section 1324 of title 31, united states code, any amounts due to the employer under this paragraph shall be treated in the same manner as a refund due from a credit provision referred to in subsection (b)(2) of such section. (c) definitions.--for purposes of this section-- (1) applicable employment taxes.--the term ``applicable employment taxes'' means the following: (a) the taxes imposed under section 3111(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986. (b) so much of the taxes imposed under section 3221(a) of such code as are attributable to the rate in effect under section 3111(a) of such code. (2) eligible employer.-- (a) in general.--the term ``eligible employer'' means any employer-- (i) which was carrying on a trade or business during calendar year 2020, and (ii) with respect to any calendar quarter, for which-- (i) the operation of the trade or business described in clause (i) is fully or partially suspended during the calendar quarter due to orders from an appropriate governmental authority limiting commerce, travel, or group meetings (for commercial, social, religious, or other purposes) due to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19), or (ii) such calendar quarter is within the period described in subparagraph (b). (b) significant decline in gross receipts.--the period described in this subparagraph is the period-- (i) beginning with the first calendar quarter beginning after december 31, 2019, for which gross receipts (within the meaning of section 448(c) of the internal revenue code of 1986) for the calendar quarter are less than 50 percent of gross receipts for the same calendar quarter in the prior year, and (ii) ending with the calendar quarter following the first calendar quarter beginning after a calendar quarter described in clause (i) for which gross receipts of such employer are greater than 80 percent of gross receipts for the same calendar quarter in the prior year. (c) tax-exempt organizations.--in the case of an organization which is described in section 501(c) of the internal revenue code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such code, clauses (i) and (ii)(i) of subparagraph (a) shall apply to all operations of such organization. (3) qualified wages.-- (a) in general.--the term ``qualified wages'' means-- (i) in the case of an eligible employer for which the average number of full-time employees (within the meaning of section 4980h of the internal revenue code of 1986) employed by such eligible employer during 2019 was greater than 100, wages paid by such eligible employer with respect to which an employee is not providing services due to circumstances described in subclause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (2)(a)(ii), or (ii) in the case of an eligible employer for which the average number of full-time employees (within the meaning of section 4980h of the internal revenue code of 1986) employed by such eligible employer during 2019 was not greater than 100-- (i) with respect to an eligible employer described in subclause (i) of paragraph (2)(a)(ii), wages paid by such eligible employer with respect to an employee during any period described in such clause, or (ii) with respect to an eligible employer described in subclause (ii) of such paragraph, wages paid by such eligible employer with respect to an employee during such quarter. such term shall not include any wages taken into account under section 7001 or section 7003 of the families first coronavirus response act. (b) limitation.--qualified wages paid or incurred by an eligible employer described in subparagraph (a)(i) with respect to an employee for any period described in such subparagraph may not exceed the amount such employee would have been paid for working an equivalent duration during the 30 days immediately preceding such period. (c) allowance for certain health plan expenses.-- (i) in general.--the term ``qualified wages'' shall include so much of the eligible employer's qualified health plan expenses as are properly allocable to such wages. (ii) qualified health plan expenses.--for purposes of this paragraph, the term ``qualified health plan expenses'' means amounts paid or incurred by the eligible employer to provide and maintain a group health plan (as defined in section 5000(b)(1) of the internal revenue code of 1986), but only to the extent that such amounts are excluded from the gross income of employees by reason of section 106(a) of such code. (iii) allocation rules.--for purposes of this paragraph, qualified health plan expenses shall be allocated to qualified wages in such manner as the secretary may prescribe. except as otherwise provided by the secretary, such allocation shall be treated as properly made if made on the basis of being pro rata among employees and pro rata on the basis of periods of coverage (relative to the periods to which such wages relate). (4) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of the treasury or the secretary's delegate. (5) wages.--the term ``wages'' means wages (as defined in section 3121(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986) and compensation (as defined in section 3231(e) of such code). (6) other terms.--any term used in this section which is also used in chapter 21 or 22 of the internal revenue code of 1986 shall have the same meaning as when used in such chapter. (d) aggregation rule.--all persons treated as a single employer under subsection (a) or (b) of section 52 of the internal revenue code of 1986, or subsection (m) or (o) of section 414 of such code, shall be treated as one employer for purposes of this section. (e) certain rules to apply.--for purposes of this section, rules similar to the rules of sections 51(i)(1) and 280c(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986 shall apply. (f) certain governmental employers.--this credit shall not apply to the government of [[page h1750]] the united states, the government of any state or political subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing. (g) election not to have section apply.--this section shall not apply with respect to any eligible employer for any calendar quarter if such employer elects (at such time and in such manner as the secretary may prescribe) not to have this section apply. (h) special rules.-- (1) employee not taken into account more than once.--an employee shall not be included for purposes of this section for any period with respect to any employer if such employer is allowed a credit under section 51 of the internal revenue code of 1986 with respect to such employee for such period. (2) denial of double benefit.--any wages taken into account in determining the credit allowed under this section shall not be taken into account for purposes of determining the credit allowed under section 45s of such code. (3) third party payors.--any credit allowed under this section shall be treated as a credit described in section 3511(d)(2) of such code. (i) transfers to federal old-age and survivors insurance trust fund.--there are hereby appropriated to the federal old-age and survivors insurance trust fund and the federal disability insurance trust fund established under section 201 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 401) and the social security equivalent benefit account established under section 15a(a) of the railroad retirement act of 1974 (45 u.s.c. 14 231n-1(a)) amounts equal to the reduction in revenues to the treasury by reason of this section (without regard to this subsection). amounts appropriated by the preceding sentence shall be transferred from the general fund at such times and in such manner as to replicate to the extent possible the transfers which would have occurred to such trust fund or account had this section not been enacted. (j) rule for employers taking small business interruption loan.--if an eligible employer receives a covered loan under paragraph (36) of section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)), as added by section 1102 of this act, such employer shall not be eligible for the credit under this section. (k) treatment of deposits.--the secretary shall waive any penalty under section 6656 of the internal revenue code of 1986 for any failure to make a deposit of any applicable employment taxes if the secretary determines that such failure was due to the reasonable anticipation of the credit allowed under this section. (l) regulations and guidance.--the secretary shall issue such forms, instructions, regulations, and guidance as are necessary-- (1) to allow the advance payment of the credit under subsection (a), subject to the limitations provided in this section, based on such information as the secretary shall require, (2) to provide for the reconciliation of such advance payment with the amount advanced at the time of filing the return of tax for the applicable calendar quarter or taxable year, (3) to provide for the recapture of the credit under this section if such credit is allowed to a taxpayer which receives a loan described in subsection (j) during a subsequent quarter, (4) with respect to the application of the credit under subsection (a) to third party payors (including professional employer organizations, certified professional employer organizations, or agents under section 3504 of the internal revenue code of 1986), including regulations or guidance allowing such payors to submit documentation necessary to substantiate the eligible employer status of employers that use such payors, and (5) for application of subparagraphs (a)(ii)(ii) and (b) of subsection (c)(2) in the case of any employer which was not carrying on a trade or business for all or part of the same calendar quarter in the prior year. (m) application.--this section shall only apply to wages paid after march 12, 2020, and before january 1, 2021. sec. 2302. delay of payment of employer payroll taxes. (a) in general.-- (1) taxes.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the payment for applicable employment taxes for the payroll tax deferral period shall not be due before the applicable date. (2) deposits.--notwithstanding section 6302 of the internal revenue code of 1986, an employer shall be treated as having timely made all deposits of applicable employment taxes that are required to be made (without regard to this section) for such taxes during the payroll tax deferral period if all such deposits are made not later than the applicable date. (3) exception.--this subsection shall not apply to any taxpayer if such taxpayer has had indebtedness forgiven under section 1106 of this act with respect to a loan under paragraph (36) of section 7(a) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 636(a)), as added by section 1102 of this act, or indebtedness forgiven under section 1109 of this act. (b) seca.-- (1) in general.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the payment for 50 percent of the taxes imposed under section 1401(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986 for the payroll tax deferral period shall not be due before the applicable date. (2) estimated taxes.--for purposes of applying section 6654 of the internal revenue code of 1986 to any taxable year which includes any part of the payroll tax deferral period, 50 percent of the taxes imposed under section 1401(a) of such code for the payroll tax deferral period shall not be treated as taxes to which such section 6654 applies. (c) liability of third parties.-- (1) acts to be performed by agents.--for purposes of section 3504 of the internal revenue code of 1986, in the case of any person designated pursuant to such section (and any regulations or other guidance issued by the secretary with respect to such section) to perform acts otherwise required to be performed by an employer under such code, if such employer directs such person to defer payment of any applicable employment taxes during the payroll tax deferral period under this section, such employer shall be solely liable for the payment of such applicable employment taxes before the applicable date for any wages paid by such person on behalf of such employer during such period. (2) certified professional employer organizations.--for purposes of section 3511, in the case of a certified professional employer organization (as defined in subsection (a) of section 7705 of the internal revenue code of 1986) that has entered into a service contract described in subsection (e)(2) of such section with a customer, if such customer directs such organization to defer payment of any applicable employment taxes during the payroll tax deferral period under this section, such customer shall, notwithstanding subsections (a) and (c) of section 3511, be solely liable for the payment of such applicable employment taxes before the applicable date for any wages paid by such organization to any work site employee performing services for such customer during such period. (d) definitions.--for purposes of this section-- (1) applicable employment taxes.--the term ``applicable employment taxes'' means the following: (a) the taxes imposed under section 3111(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986. (b) so much of the taxes imposed under section 3211(a) of such code as are attributable to the rate in effect under section 3111(a) of such code. (c) so much of the taxes imposed under section 3221(a) of such code as are attributable to the rate in effect under section 3111(a) of such code. (2) payroll tax deferral period.--the term ``payroll tax deferral period'' means the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this act and ending before january 1, 2021. (3) applicable date.--the term ``applicable date'' means-- (a) december 31, 2021, with respect to 50 percent of the amounts to which subsection (a) or (b), as the case may be, apply, and (b) december 31, 2022, with respect to the remaining such amounts. (4) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of the treasury (or the secretary's delegate). (e) trust funds held harmless.--there are hereby appropriated (out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated) for each fiscal year to the federal old-age and survivors insurance trust fund and the federal disability insurance trust fund established under section 201 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 401) and the social security equivalent benefit account established under section 15a(a) of the railroad retirement act of 1974 (45 u.s.c. 231n-1(a)) an amount equal to the reduction in the transfers to such fund for such fiscal year by reason of this section. amounts appropriated by the preceding sentence shall be transferred from the general fund at such times and in such manner as to replicate to the extent possible the transfers which would have occurred to such trust fund had such amendments not been enacted. (f) regulatory authority.--the secretary shall issue such regulations or other guidance as necessary to carry out the purposes of this section, including rules for the administration and enforcement of subsection (c). sec. 2303. modifications for net operating losses. (a) temporary repeal of taxable income limitation.-- (1) in general.--the first sentence of section 172(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by striking ``an amount equal to'' and all that follows and inserting ``an amount equal to-- ``(1) in the case of a taxable year beginning before january 1, 2021, the aggregate of the net operating loss carryovers to such year, plus the net operating loss carrybacks to such year, and ``(2) in the case of a taxable year beginning after december 31, 2020, the sum of-- ``(a) the aggregate amount of net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning before january 1, 2018, carried to such taxable year, plus ``(b) the lesser of-- ``(i) the aggregate amount of net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017, carried to such taxable year, or ``(ii) 80 percent of the excess (if any) of-- ``(i) taxable income computed without regard to the deductions under this section and sections 199a and 250, over ``(ii) the amount determined under subparagraph (a).''. (2) conforming amendments.-- (a) section 172(b)(2)(c) of such code is amended to read as follows: ``(c) for taxable years beginning after december 31, 2020, be reduced by 20 percent of the excess (if any) described in subsection (a)(2)(b)(ii) for such taxable year.''. (b) section 172(d)(6)(c) of such code is amended by striking ``subsection (a)(2)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(2)(b)(ii)(i)''. (c) section 860e(a)(3)(b) of such code is amended by striking all that follows ``for purposes of'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(2)(b)(ii)(i) and the second sentence of subsection (b)(2) of section 172.''. (b) modifications of rules relating to carrybacks.-- (1) in general.--section 172(b)(1) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: [[page h1751]] ``(d) special rule for losses arising in 2018, 2019, and 2020.-- ``(i) in general.--in the case of any net operating loss arising in a taxable year beginning after december 31, 2017, and before january 1, 2021-- ``(i) such loss shall be a net operating loss carryback to each of the 5 taxable years preceding the taxable year of such loss, and ``(ii) subparagraphs (b) and (c)(i) shall not apply. ``(ii) special rules for reits.--for purposes of this subparagraph-- ``(i) in general.--a net operating loss for a reit year shall not be a net operating loss carryback to any taxable year preceding the taxable year of such loss. ``(ii) special rule.--in the case of any net operating loss for a taxable year which is not a reit year, such loss shall not be carried to any preceding taxable year which is a reit year. ``(iii) reit year.--for purposes of this subparagraph, the term `reit year' means any taxable year for which the provisions of part ii of subchapter m (relating to real estate investment trusts) apply to the taxpayer. ``(iii) special rule for life insurance companies.-- in the case of a life insurance company, if a net operating loss is carried pursuant to clause (i)(i) to a life insurance company taxable year beginning before january 1, 2018, such net operating loss carryback shall be treated in the same manner as an operations loss carryback (within the meaning of section 810 as in effect before its repeal) of such company to such taxable year. ``(iv) rule relating to carrybacks to years to which section 965 applies.--if a net operating loss of a taxpayer is carried pursuant to clause (i)(i) to any taxable year in which an amount is includible in gross income by reason of section 965(a), the taxpayer shall be treated as having made the election under section 965(n) with respect to each such taxable year. ``(v) special rules for elections under paragraph (3).-- ``(i) special election to exclude section 965 years.-- if the 5-year carryback period under clause (i)(i) with respect to any net operating loss of a taxpayer includes 1 or more taxable years in which an amount is includible in gross income by reason of section 965(a), the taxpayer may, in lieu of the election otherwise available under paragraph (3), elect under such paragraph to exclude all such taxable years from such carryback period. ``(ii) time of elections.--an election under paragraph (3) (including an election described in subclause (i)) with respect to a net operating loss arising in a taxable year beginning in 2018 or 2019 shall be made by the due date (including extensions of time) for filing the taxpayer's return for the first taxable year ending after the date of the enactment of this subparagraph.''. (2) conforming amendment.--section 172(b)(1)(a) of such code, as amended by subsection (c)(2), is amended by striking ``and (c)(i)'' and inserting ``, (c)(i), and (d)''. (c) technical amendment relating to section 13302 of public law 115-97.-- (1) section 13302(e) of public law 115-97 is amended to read as follows: ``(e) effective dates.-- ``(1) net operating loss limitation.--the amendments made by subsections (a) and (d)(2) shall apply to-- ``(a) taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017, and ``(b) taxable years beginning on or before such date to which net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after such date are carried. ``(2) carryovers and carrybacks.--the amendments made by subsections (b), (c), and (d)(1) shall apply to net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017.''. (2) section 172(b)(1)(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended to read as follows: ``(a) general rule.--a net operating loss for any taxable year-- ``(i) shall be a net operating loss carryback to the extent provided in subparagraphs (b) and (c)(i), and ``(ii) except as provided in subparagraph (c)(ii), shall be a net operating loss carryover-- ``(i) in the case of a net operating loss arising in a taxable year beginning before january 1, 2018, to each of the 20 taxable years following the taxable year of the loss, and ``(ii) in the case of a net operating loss arising in a taxable year beginning after december 31, 2017, to each taxable year following the taxable year of the loss.''. (d) effective dates.-- (1) net operating loss limitation.--the amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply-- (a) to taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017, and (b) to taxable years beginning on or before december 31, 2017, to which net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017, are carried. (2) carryovers and carrybacks.--the amendment made by subsection (b) shall apply to-- (a) net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017, and (b) taxable years beginning before, on, or after such date to which such net operating losses are carried. (3) technical amendments.--the amendments made by subsection (c) shall take effect as if included in the provisions of public law 115-97 to which they relate. (4) special rule.--in the case of a net operating loss arising in a taxable year beginning before january 1, 2018, and ending after december 31, 2017-- (a) an application under section 6411(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986 with respect to the carryback of such net operating loss shall not fail to be treated as timely filed if filed not later than the date which is 120 days after the date of the enactment of this act, and (b) an election to-- (i) forgo any carryback of such net operating loss, (ii) reduce any period to which such net operating loss may be carried back, or (iii) revoke any election made under section 172(b) to forgo any carryback of such net operating loss, shall not fail to be treated as timely made if made not later than the date which is 120 days after the date of the enactment of this act. sec. 2304. modification of limitation on losses for taxpayers other than corporations. (a) in general.--section 461(l)(1) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended to read as follows: ``(1) limitation.--in the case of a taxpayer other than a corporation-- ``(a) for any taxable year beginning after december 31, 2017, and before january 1, 2026, subsection (j) (relating to limitation on excess farm losses of certain taxpayers) shall not apply, and ``(b) for any taxable year beginning after december 31, 2020, and before january 1, 2026, any excess business loss of the taxpayer for the taxable year shall not be allowed.''. (b) technical amendments relating to section 11012 of public law 115-97.-- (1) section 461(l)(2) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by striking ``a net operating loss carryover to the following taxable year under section 172'' and inserting ``a net operating loss for the taxable year for purposes of determining any net operating loss carryover under section 172(b) for subsequent taxable years''. (2) section 461(l)(3)(a) of such code is amended-- (a) in clause (i), by inserting ``and without regard to any deduction allowable under section 172 or 199a'' after ``under paragraph (1)'', and (b) by adding at the end the following flush sentence: ``such excess shall be determined without regard to any deductions, gross income, or gains attributable to any trade or business of performing services as an employee.''. (3) section 461(l)(3) of such code is amended by redesignating subparagraph (b) as subparagraph (c) and by inserting after subparagraph (a) the following new subparagraph: ``(b) treatment of capital gains and losses.-- ``(i) losses.--deductions for losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets shall not be taken into account under subparagraph (a)(i). ``(ii) gains.--the amount of gains from sales or exchanges of capital assets taken into account under subparagraph (a)(ii) shall not exceed the lesser of-- ``(i) the capital gain net income determined by taking into account only gains and losses attributable to a trade or business, or ``(ii) the capital gain net income.''. (c) effective dates.-- (1) in general.--the amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017. (2) technical amendments.--the amendments made by subsection (b) shall take effect as if included in the provisions of public law 115-97 to which they relate. sec. 2305. modification of credit for prior year minimum tax liability of corporations. (a) in general.--section 53(e) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended-- (1) by striking ``2018, 2019, 2020, or 2021'' in paragraph (1) and inserting ``2018 or 2019'', and (2) by striking ``2021'' in paragraph (2) and inserting ``2019''. (b) election to take entire refundable credit amount in 2018.-- (1) in general.--section 53(e) of such code is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: ``(5) special rule.--in the case of a corporation making an election under this paragraph-- ``(a) paragraph (1) shall not apply, and ``(b) subsection (c) shall not apply to the first taxable year of such corporation beginning in 2018.''. (c) effective date.--the amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017. (d) special rule.-- (1) in general.--for purposes of the internal revenue code of 1986, a credit or refund for which an application described in paragraph (2)(a) is filed shall be treated as made under section 6411 of such code. (2) tentative refund.-- (a) application.--a taxpayer may file an application for a tentative refund of any amount for which a refund is due by reason of an election under section 53(e)(5) of the internal revenue code of 1986. such application shall be in such manner and form as the secretary of the treasury (or the secretary's delegate) may prescribe and shall-- (i) be verified in the same manner as an application under section 6411(a) of such code, (ii) be filed prior to december 31, 2020, and (iii) set forth-- (i) the amount of the refundable credit claimed under section 53(e) of such code for such taxable year, (ii) the amount of the refundable credit claimed under such section for any previously filed return for such taxable year, and (iii) the amount of the refund claimed. (b) allowance of adjustments.--within a period of 90 days from the date on which an application is filed under subparagraph (a), the secretary of the treasury (or the secretary's delegate) shall-- (i) review the application, (ii) determine the amount of the overpayment, and [[page h1752]] (iii) apply, credit, or refund such overpayment, in a manner similar to the manner provided in section 6411(b) of the internal revenue code of 1986. (c) consolidated returns.--the provisions of section 6411(c) of the internal revenue code of 1986 code shall apply to an adjustment under this paragraph to the same extent and manner as the secretary of the treasury (or the secretary's delegate) may provide. sec. 2306. modifications of limitation on business interest. (a) in general.--section 163(j) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by redesignating paragraph (10) as paragraph (11) and by inserting after paragraph (9) the following new paragraph: ``(10) special rule for taxable years beginning in 2019 and 2020.-- ``(a) in general.-- ``(i) in general.--except as provided in clause (ii) or (iii), in the case of any taxable year beginning in 2019 or 2020, paragraph (1)(b) shall be applied by substituting `50 percent' for `30 percent'. ``(ii) special rule for partnerships.--in the case of a partnership-- ``(i) clause (i) shall not apply to any taxable year beginning in 2019, but ``(ii) unless a partner elects not to have this subclause apply, in the case of any excess business interest of the partnership for any taxable year beginning in 2019 which is allocated to the partner under paragraph (4)(b)(i)(ii)-- ``(aa) 50 percent of such excess business interest shall be treated as business interest which, notwithstanding paragraph (4)(b)(ii), is paid or accrued by the partner in the partner's first taxable year beginning in 2020 and which is not subject to the limits of paragraph (1), and ``(bb) 50 percent of such excess business interest shall be subject to the limitations of paragraph (4)(b)(ii) in the same manner as any other excess business interest so allocated. ``(iii) election out.--a taxpayer may elect, at such time and in such manner as the secretary may prescribe, not to have clause (i) apply to any taxable year. such an election, once made, may be revoked only with the consent of the secretary. in the case of a partnership, any such election shall be made by the partnership and may be made only for taxable years beginning in 2020. ``(b) election to use 2019 adjusted taxable income for taxable years beginning in 2020.-- ``(i) in general.--subject to clause (ii), in the case of any taxable year beginning in 2020, the taxpayer may elect to apply this subsection by substituting the adjusted taxable income of the taxpayer for the last taxable year beginning in 2019 for the adjusted taxable income for such taxable year. in the case of a partnership, any such election shall be made by the partnership. ``(ii) special rule for short taxable years.--if an election is made under clause (i) for a taxable year which is a short taxable year, the adjusted taxable income for the taxpayer's last taxable year beginning in 2019 which is substituted under clause (i) shall be equal to the amount which bears the same ratio to such adjusted taxable income determined without regard to this clause as the number of months in the short taxable year bears to 12''. (b) effective date.--the amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after december 31, 2018. sec. 2307. technical amendments regarding qualified improvement property. (a) in general.--section 168 of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended-- (1) in subsection (e)-- (a) in paragraph (3)(e), by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (v), by striking the period at the end of clause (vi) and inserting ``, and'', and by adding at the end the following new clause: ``(vii) any qualified improvement property.'', and (b) in paragraph (6)(a), by inserting ``made by the taxpayer'' after ``any improvement'', and (2) in the table contained in subsection (g)(3)(b)-- (a) by striking the item relating to subparagraph (d)(v), and (b) by inserting after the item relating to subparagraph (e)(vi) the following new item: ``(e)(vii)......................................................20''. (b) effective date.--the amendments made by this section shall take effect as if included in section 13204 of public law 115-97. sec. 2308. temporary exception from excise tax for alcohol used to produce hand sanitizer. (a) in general.--section 5214(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended-- (1) in paragraph (13), by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; or'', and (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph: ``(14) with respect to distilled spirits removed after december 31, 2019, and before january 1, 2021, free of tax for use in or contained in hand sanitizer produced and distributed in a manner consistent with any guidance issued by the food and drug administration that is related to the outbreak of virus sars-cov-2 or coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19).''. (b) effective date.--the amendments made by this section shall apply to distilled spirits removed after december 31, 2019. (c) application of other laws.--any distilled spirits or product described in paragraph (14) of section 5214(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986 (as added by this section) shall not be subject to any requirements related to labeling or bulk sales under-- (1) section 105 or 106 of the federal alcohol administration act (27 u.s.c. 205, 206); or (2) section 204 of the alcoholic beverage labeling act of 1988 (27 u.s.c. 215). title iii--supporting america's health care system in the fight against the coronavirus subtitle a--health provisions sec. 3001. short title. this subtitle may be cited as the ``coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act''. part i--addressing supply shortages subpart a--medical product supplies sec. 3101. national academies report on america's medical product supply chain security. (a) in general.--not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of health and human services shall enter into an agreement with the national academies of sciences, engineering, and medicine (referred to in this section as the ``national academies'') to examine, and, in a manner that does not compromise national security, report on, the security of the united states medical product supply chain. (b) purposes.--the report developed under this section shall-- (1) assess and evaluate the dependence of the united states, including the private commercial sector, states, and the federal government, on critical drugs and devices that are sourced or manufactured outside of the united states, which may include an analysis of-- (a) the supply chain of critical drugs and devices of greatest priority to providing health care; (b) any potential public health security or national security risks associated with reliance on critical drugs and devices sourced or manufactured outside of the united states, which may include responses to previous or existing shortages or public health emergencies, such as infectious disease outbreaks, bioterror attacks, and other public health threats; (c) any existing supply chain information gaps, as applicable; and (d) potential economic impact of increased domestic manufacturing; and (2) provide recommendations, which may include a plan to improve the resiliency of the supply chain for critical drugs and devices as described in paragraph (1), and to address any supply vulnerabilities or potential disruptions of such products that would significantly affect or pose a threat to public health security or national security, as appropriate, which may include strategies to-- (a) promote supply chain redundancy and contingency planning; (b) encourage domestic manufacturing, including consideration of economic impacts, if any; (c) improve supply chain information gaps; (d) improve planning considerations for medical product supply chain capacity during public health emergencies; and (e) promote the accessibility of such drugs and devices. (c) input.--in conducting the study and developing the report under subsection (b), the national academies shall-- (1) consider input from the department of health and human services, the department of homeland security, the department of defense, the department of commerce, the department of state, the department of veterans affairs, the department of justice, and any other federal agencies as appropriate; and (2) consult with relevant stakeholders, which may include conducting public meetings and other forms of engagement, as appropriate, with health care providers, medical professional societies, state-based societies, public health experts, state and local public health departments, state medical boards, patient groups, medical product manufacturers, health care distributors, wholesalers and group purchasing organizations, pharmacists, and other entities with experience in health care and public health, as appropriate. (d) definitions.--in this section, the terms ``device'' and ``drug'' have the meanings given such terms in section 201 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 321). sec. 3102. requiring the strategic national stockpile to include certain types of medical supplies. section 319f-2(a)(1) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d-6b(a)(1)) is amended by inserting ``(including personal protective equipment, ancillary medical supplies, and other applicable supplies required for the administration of drugs, vaccines and other biological products, medical devices, and diagnostic tests in the stockpile)'' after ``other supplies''. sec. 3103. treatment of respiratory protective devices as covered countermeasures. section 319f-3(i)(1)(d) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d-6d(i)(1)(d)) is amended to read as follows: ``(d) a respiratory protective device that is approved by the national institute for occupational safety and health under part 84 of title 42, code of federal regulations (or any successor regulations), and that the secretary determines to be a priority for use during a public health emergency declared under section 319.''. subpart b--mitigating emergency drug shortages sec. 3111. prioritize reviews of drug applications; incentives. section 506c(g) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 356c(g)) is amended-- (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the secretary may'' and inserting ``the secretary shall, as appropriate''; (2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``prioritize and'' before ``expedite the review''; and (3) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``prioritize and'' before ``expedite an inspection''. [[page h1753]] sec. 3112. additional manufacturer reporting requirements in response to drug shortages. (a) expansion to include active pharmaceutical ingredients.--subsection (a) of section 506c of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 356c) is amended-- (1) in paragraph (1)(c), by inserting ``or any such drug that is critical to the public health during a public health emergency declared by the secretary under section 319 of the public health service act'' after ``during surgery''; and (2) in the flush text at the end-- (a) by inserting ``, or a permanent discontinuance in the manufacture of an active pharmaceutical ingredient or an interruption in the manufacture of the active pharmaceutical ingredient of such drug that is likely to lead to a meaningful disruption in the supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient of such drug,'' before ``and the reasons''; and (b) by adding at the end the following: ``notification under this subsection shall include disclosure of reasons for the discontinuation or interruption, and if applicable, an active pharmaceutical ingredient is a reason for, or risk factor in, such discontinuation or interruption, the source of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and any alternative sources for the active pharmaceutical ingredient known by the manufacturer; whether any associated device used for preparation or administration included in the drug is a reason for, or a risk factor in, such discontinuation or interruption; the expected duration of the interruption; and such other information as the secretary may require.''. (b) risk management.--section 506c of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 356c) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(j) risk management plans.--each manufacturer of a drug described in subsection (a) or of any active pharmaceutical ingredient or any associated medical device used for preparation or administration included in the drug, shall develop, maintain, and implement, as appropriate, a redundancy risk management plan that identifies and evaluates risks to the supply of the drug, as applicable, for each establishment in which such drug or active pharmaceutical ingredient of such drug is manufactured. a risk management plan under this section shall be subject to inspection and copying by the secretary pursuant to an inspection or a request under section 704(a)(4).''. (c) annual notification.--section 506e of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 356e) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(d) interagency notification.--not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, and every 90 days thereafter, the secretary shall transmit a report regarding the drugs of the current drug shortage list under this section to the administrator of the centers for medicare & medicaid services.''. (d) reporting after inspections.--section 704(b) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 374(b)) is amended-- (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) and subparagraphs (a) and (b); (2) by striking ``(b) upon completion'' and inserting ``(b)(1) upon completion''; and (3) by adding at the end the following: ``(2) in carrying out this subsection with respect to any establishment manufacturing a drug approved under subsection (c) or (j) of section 505 for which a notification has been submitted in accordance with section 506c is, or has been in the last 5 years, listed on the drug shortage list under section 506e, or that is described in section 505(j)(11)(a), a copy of the report shall be sent promptly to the appropriate offices of the food and drug administration with expertise regarding drug shortages.''. (e) reporting requirement.--section 510(j) of the federal food, drug, cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 360(j)) is amended-- (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following: ``(3)(a) each person who registers with the secretary under this section with regard to a drug shall report annually to the secretary on the amount of each drug listed under paragraph (1) that was manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed by such person for commercial distribution. such information may be required to be submitted in an electronic format as determined by the secretary. the secretary may require that information required to be reported under this paragraph be submitted at the time a public health emergency is declared by the secretary under section 319 of the public health service act. ``(b) by order of the secretary, certain biological products or categories of biological products regulated under section 351 of the public health service act may be exempt from some or all of the reporting requirements under subparagraph (a), if the secretary determines that applying such reporting requirements to such biological products or categories of biological products is not necessary to protect the public health.''. (f) confidentiality.--nothing in the amendments made by this section shall be construed as authorizing the secretary to disclose any information that is a trade secret or confidential information subject to section 552(b)(4) of title 5, united states code, or section 1905 of title 18, united states code. (g) effective date.--the amendments made by this section and section 3111 shall take effect on the date that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this act. subpart c--preventing medical device shortages sec. 3121. discontinuance or interruption in the production of medical devices. chapter v of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 351 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 506i the following: ``sec. 506j. discontinuance or interruption in the production of medical devices. ``(a) in general.--a manufacturer of a device that-- ``(1) is critical to public health during a public health emergency, including devices that are life-supporting, life- sustaining, or intended for use in emergency medical care or during surgery; or ``(2) for which the secretary determines that information on potential meaningful supply disruptions of such device is needed during, or in advance of, a public health emergency; shall, during, or in advance of, a public health emergency declared by the secretary under section 319 of the public health service act, notify the secretary, in accordance with subsection (b), of a permanent discontinuance in the manufacture of the device (except for discontinuances as a result of an approved modification of the device) or an interruption of the manufacture of the device that is likely to lead to a meaningful disruption in the supply of that device in the united states, and the reasons for such discontinuance or interruption. ``(b) timing.--a notice required under subsection (a) shall be submitted to the secretary-- ``(1) at least 6 months prior to the date of the discontinuance or interruption; or ``(2) if compliance with paragraph (1) is not possible, as soon as practicable. ``(c) distribution.-- ``(1) public availability.--to the maximum extent practicable, subject to paragraph (2), the secretary shall distribute, through such means as the secretary determines appropriate, information on the discontinuance or interruption of the manufacture of devices reported under subsection (a) to appropriate organizations, including physician, health provider, patient organizations, and supply chain partners, as appropriate and applicable, as described in subsection (g). ``(2) public health exception.--the secretary may choose not to make information collected under this section publicly available pursuant to this section if the secretary determines that disclosure of such information would adversely affect the public health, such as by increasing the possibility of unnecessary over purchase of product, component parts, or other disruption of the availability of medical products to patients. ``(d) confidentiality.--nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing the secretary to disclose any information that is a trade secret or confidential information subject to section 552(b)(4) of title 5, united states code, or section 1905 of title 18, united states code. ``(e) failure to meet requirements.--if a person fails to submit information required under subsection (a) in accordance with subsection (b)-- ``(1) the secretary shall issue a letter to such person informing such person of such failure; ``(2) not later than 30 calendar days after the issuance of a letter under paragraph (1), the person who receives such letter shall submit to the secretary a written response to such letter setting forth the basis for noncompliance and providing information required under subsection (a); and ``(3) not later than 45 calendar days after the issuance of a letter under paragraph (1), the secretary shall make such letter and any response to such letter under paragraph (2) available to the public on the internet website of the food and drug administration, with appropriate redactions made to protect information described in subsection (d), except that, if the secretary determines that the letter under paragraph (1) was issued in error or, after review of such response, the person had a reasonable basis for not notifying as required under subsection (a), the requirements of this paragraph shall not apply. ``(f) expedited inspections and reviews.--if, based on notifications described in subsection (a) or any other relevant information, the secretary concludes that there is, or is likely to be, a shortage of an device, the secretary shall, as appropriate-- ``(1) prioritize and expedite the review of a submission under section 513(f)(2), 515, review of a notification under section 510(k), or 520(m) for a device that could help mitigate or prevent such shortage; or ``(2) prioritize and expedite an inspection or reinspection of an establishment that could help mitigate or prevent such shortage. ``(g) device shortage list.-- ``(1) establishment.--the secretary shall establish and maintain an up-to-date list of devices that are determined by the secretary to be in shortage in the united states. ``(2) contents.--for each device included on the list under paragraph (1), the secretary shall include the following information: ``(a) the category or name of the device in shortage. ``(b) the name of each manufacturer of such device. ``(c) the reason for the shortage, as determined by the secretary, selecting from the following categories: ``(i) requirements related to complying with good manufacturing practices. ``(ii) regulatory delay. ``(iii) shortage or discontinuance of a component or part. ``(iv) discontinuance of the manufacture of the device. ``(v) delay in shipping of the device. ``(vi) delay in sterilization of the device. ``(vii) demand increase for the device. ``(viii) facility closure. ``(d) the estimated duration of the shortage as determined by the secretary. [[page h1754]] ``(3) public availability.-- ``(a) in general.--subject to subparagraphs (b) and (c), the secretary shall make the information in the list under paragraph (1) publicly available. ``(b) trade secrets and confidential information.--nothing in this subsection shall be construed to alter or amend section 1905 of title 18, united states code, or section 552(b)(4) of title 5 of such code. ``(c) public health exception.--the secretary may elect not to make information collected under this subsection publicly available if the secretary determines that disclosure of such information would adversely affect the public health (such as by increasing the possibility of hoarding or other disruption of the availability of the device to patients). ``(h) rule of construction.--nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the authority of the secretary on the date of enactment of this section to expedite the review of devices under section 515 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, section 515b of such act relating to the priority review program for devices, and section 564 of such act relating to the emergency use authorization authorities. ``(i) definitions.--in this section: ``(1) meaningful disruption.--the term `meaningful disruption'-- ``(a) means a change in production that is reasonably likely to lead to a reduction in the supply of a device by a manufacturer that is more than negligible and affects the ability of the manufacturer to fill orders or meet expected demand for its product; ``(b) does not include interruptions in manufacturing due to matters such as routine maintenance or insignificant changes in manufacturing so long as the manufacturer expects to resume operations in a short period of time, not to exceed 6 months; ``(c) does not include interruptions in manufacturing of components or raw materials so long as such interruptions do not result in a shortage of the device and the manufacturer expects to resume operations in a reasonable period of time; and ``(d) does not include interruptions in manufacturing that do not lead to a reduction in procedures or diagnostic tests associated with a medical device designed to perform more than one procedure or diagnostic test. ``(2) shortage.--the term `shortage', with respect to a device, means a period of time when the demand or projected demand for the device within the united states exceeds the supply of the device.''. part ii--access to health care for covid-19 patients subpart a--coverage of testing and preventive services sec. 3201. coverage of diagnostic testing for covid-19. paragraph (1) of section 6001(a) of division f of the families first coronavirus response act (public law 116-127) is amended to read as follows: ``(1) an in vitro diagnostic test defined in section 809.3 of title 21, code of federal regulations (or successor regulations) for the detection of sars-cov-2 or the diagnosis of the virus that causes covid-19, and the administration of such a test, that-- ``(a) is approved, cleared, or authorized under section 510(k), 513, 515, or 564 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 360(k), 360c, 360e, 360bbb-3); ``(b) the developer has requested, or intends to request, emergency use authorization under section 564 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 360bbb-3), unless and until the emergency use authorization request under such section 564 has been denied or the developer of such test does not submit a request under such section within a reasonable timeframe; ``(c) is developed in and authorized by a state that has notified the secretary of health and human services of its intention to review tests intended to diagnose covid-19; or ``(d) other test that the secretary determines appropriate in guidance.''. sec. 3202. pricing of diagnostic testing. (a) reimbursement rates.--a group health plan or a health insurance issuer providing coverage of items and services described in section 6001(a) of division f of the families first coronavirus response act (public law 116-127) with respect to an enrollee shall reimburse the provider of the diagnostic testing as follows: (1) if the health plan or issuer has a negotiated rate with such provider in effect before the public health emergency declared under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d), such negotiated rate shall apply throughout the period of such declaration. (2) if the health plan or issuer does not have a negotiated rate with such provider, such plan or issuer shall reimburse the provider in an amount that equals the cash price for such service as listed by the provider on a public internet website, or such plan or issuer may negotiate a rate with such provider for less than such cash price. (b) requirement to publicize cash price for diagnostic testing for covid-19.-- (1) in general.--during the emergency period declared under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d), each provider of a diagnostic test for covid-19 shall make public the cash price for such test on a public internet website of such provider. (2) civil monetary penalties.--the secretary of health and human services may impose a civil monetary penalty on any provider of a diagnostic test for covid-19 that is not in compliance with paragraph (1) and has not completed a corrective action plan to comply with the requirements of such paragraph, in an amount not to exceed $300 per day that the violation is ongoing. sec. 3203. rapid coverage of preventive services and vaccines for coronavirus. (a) in general.--notwithstanding 2713(b) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 300gg-13), the secretary of health and human services, the secretary of labor, and the secretary of the treasury shall require group health plans and health insurance issuers offering group or individual health insurance to cover (without cost-sharing) any qualifying coronavirus preventive service, pursuant to section 2713(a) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 300gg-13(a)) (including the regulations under sections 2590.715-2713 of title 29, code of federal regulations, section 54.9815-2713 of title 26, code of federal regulations, and section 147.130 of title 45, code of federal regulations (or any successor regulations)). the requirement described in this subsection shall take effect with respect to a qualifying coronavirus preventive service on the specified date described in subsection (b)(2). (b) definitions.--for purposes of this section: (1) qualifying coronavirus preventive service.--the term ``qualifying coronavirus preventive service'' means an item, service, or immunization that is intended to prevent or mitigate coronavirus disease 2019 and that is-- (a) an evidence-based item or service that has in effect a rating of ``a'' or ``b'' in the current recommendations of the united states preventive services task force; or (b) an immunization that has in effect a recommendation from the advisory committee on immunization practices of the centers for disease control and prevention with respect to the individual involved. (2) specified date.--the term ``specified date'' means the date that is 15 business days after the date on which a recommendation is made relating to the qualifying coronavirus preventive service as described in such paragraph. (3) additional terms.--in this section, the terms ``group health plan'', ``health insurance issuer'', ``group health insurance coverage'', and ``individual health insurance coverage'' have the meanings given such terms in section 2791 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 300gg-91), section 733 of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (29 u.s.c. 1191b), and section 9832 of the internal revenue code, as applicable. subpart b--support for health care providers sec. 3211. supplemental awards for health centers. (a) supplemental awards.--section 330(r) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 254b(r)) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(6) additional amounts for supplemental awards.--in addition to any amounts made available pursuant to this subsection, section 402a of this act, or section 10503 of the patient protection and affordable care act, there is authorized to be appropriated, and there is appropriated, out of any monies in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,320,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 for supplemental awards under subsection (d) for the detection of sars-cov-2 or the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of covid-19.''. (b) application of provisions.--amounts appropriated pursuant to the amendment made by subsection (a) for fiscal year 2020 shall be subject to the requirements contained in public law 116-94 for funds for programs authorized under sections 330 through 340 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 254 through 256). sec. 3212. telehealth network and telehealth resource centers grant programs. section 330i of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 254c-14) is amended-- (1) in subsection (d)-- (a) in paragraph (1)-- (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by striking ``projects to demonstrate how telehealth technologies can be used through telehealth networks'' and inserting ``evidence- based projects that utilize telehealth technologies through telehealth networks''; (ii) in subparagraph (a)-- (i) by striking ``the quality of'' and inserting ``access to, and the quality of,''; and (ii) by inserting ``and'' after the semicolon; (iii) by striking subparagraph (b); (iv) by redesignating subparagraph (c) as subparagraph (b); and (v) in subparagraph (b), as so redesignated, by striking ``and patients and their families, for decisionmaking'' and inserting ``, patients, and their families''; and (b) in paragraph (2)-- (i) by striking ``demonstrate how telehealth technologies can be used'' and inserting ``support initiatives that utilize telehealth technologies''; and (ii) by striking ``, to establish telehealth resource centers''; (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``4 years'' and inserting ``5 years''; (3) in subsection (f)-- (a) by striking paragraph (2); (b) in paragraph (1)(b)-- (i) by redesignating clauses (i) through (iii) as paragraphs (1) through (3), respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly; (ii) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated by clause (i), by redesignating subclauses (i) through (xii) as subparagraphs (a) through (l), respectively, and adjusting the margins accordingly; and (iii) by striking ``(1) telehealth network grants--'' and all that follows through ``(b) telehealth networks--''; and (c) in paragraph (3)(i), as so redesignated, by inserting ``and substance use disorder'' after ``mental health'' each place such term appears; (4) in subsection (g)(2), by striking ``or improve'' and inserting ``and improve''; [[page h1755]] (5) by striking subsection (h); (6) by redesignating subsections (i) through (p) as subsection (h) through (o), respectively; (7) in subsection (h), as so redesignated-- (a) in paragraph (1)-- (i) in subparagraph (b), by striking ``mental health, public health, long-term care, home care, preventive'' and inserting ``mental health care, public health services, long- term care, home care, preventive care''; (ii) in subparagraph (e), by inserting ``and regional'' after ``local''; and (iii) by striking subparagraph (f); and (b) in paragraph (2)(a), by striking ``medically underserved areas or'' and inserting ``rural areas, medically underserved areas, or''; (8) in paragraph (2) of subsection (i), as so redesignated, by striking ``ensure that--'' and all that follows through the end of subparagraph (b) and inserting ``ensure that not less than 50 percent of the funds awarded shall be awarded for projects in rural areas.''; (9) in subsection (j), as so redesignated-- (a) in paragraph (1)(b), by striking ``computer hardware and software, audio and video equipment, computer network equipment, interactive equipment, data terminal equipment, and other''; and (b) in paragraph (2)(f), by striking ``health care providers and''; (10) in subsection (k), as so redesignated-- (a) in paragraph (2), by striking ``40 percent'' and inserting ``20 percent''; and (b) in paragraph (3), by striking ``(such as laying cable or telephone lines, or purchasing or installing microwave towers, satellite dishes, amplifiers, or digital switching equipment)''; (11) by striking subsections (q) and (r) and inserting the following: ``(p) report.--not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act, and every 5 years thereafter, the secretary shall prepare and submit to the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate and the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives a report on the activities and outcomes of the grant programs under subsection (b).''; (12) by redesignating subsection (s) as subsection (q); and (13) in subsection (q), as so redesignated, by striking ``this section--'' and all that follows through the end of paragraph (2) and inserting ``this section $29,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.''. sec. 3213. rural health care services outreach, rural health network development, and small health care provider quality improvement grant programs. section 330a of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 254c) is amended-- (1) in subsection (d)(2)-- (a) in subparagraph (a), by striking ``essential'' and inserting ``basic''; and (b) in subparagraph (b)-- (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting ``to'' after ``grants''; and (ii) in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), by striking ``to'' each place such term appears; (2) in subsection (e)-- (a) in paragraph (1)-- (i) by inserting ``improving and'' after ``outreach by''; (ii) by inserting ``, through community engagement and evidence-based or innovative, evidence-informed models'' before the period of the first sentence; and (iii) by striking ``3 years'' and inserting ``5 years''; (b) in paragraph (2)-- (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by inserting ``shall'' after ``entity''; (ii) in subparagraph (a), by striking ``shall be a rural public or rural nonprofit private entity'' and inserting ``be an entity with demonstrated experience serving, or the capacity to serve, rural underserved populations''; (iii) in subparagraphs (b) and (c), by striking ``shall'' each place such term appears; and (iv) in subparagraph (b)-- (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting ``that'' after ``members''; and (ii) in clauses (i) and (ii), by striking ``that'' each place such term appears; and (c) in paragraph (3)(c), by striking ``the local community or region'' and inserting ``the rural underserved populations in the local community or region''; (3) in subsection (f)-- (a) in paragraph (1)-- (i) in subparagraph (a)-- (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``promote, through planning and implementation, the development of integrated health care networks that have combined the functions of the entities participating in the networks'' and inserting ``plan, develop, and implement integrated health care networks that collaborate''; and (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``essential health care services'' and inserting ``basic health care services and associated health outcomes''; and (ii) by amending subparagraph (b) to read as follows: ``(b) grant periods.--the director may award grants under this subsection for periods of not more than 5 years.''; (b) in paragraph (2)-- (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by inserting ``shall'' after ``entity''; (ii) in subparagraph (a), by striking ``shall be a rural public or rural nonprofit private entity'' and inserting ``be an entity with demonstrated experience serving, or the capacity to serve, rural underserved populations''; (iii) in subparagraph (b)-- (i) in the matter preceding clause (i)-- (aa) by striking ``shall''; and (bb) by inserting ``that'' after ``participants''; and (ii) in clauses (i) and (ii), by striking ``that'' each place such term appears; and (iv) in subparagraph (c), by striking ``shall''; and (c) in paragraph (3)-- (i) by amending clause (iii) of subparagraph (c) to read as follows: ``(iii) how the rural underserved populations in the local community or region to be served will benefit from and be involved in the development and ongoing operations of the network;''; and (ii) in subparagraph (d), by striking ``the local community or region'' and inserting ``the rural underserved populations in the local community or region''; (4) in subsection (g)-- (a) in paragraph (1)-- (i) by inserting ``, including activities related to increasing care coordination, enhancing chronic disease management, and improving patient health outcomes'' before the period of the first sentence; and (ii) by striking ``3 years'' and inserting ``5 years''; (b) in paragraph (2)-- (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by inserting ``shall'' after ``entity''; (ii) in subparagraphs (a) and (b), by striking ``shall'' each place such term appears; and (iii) in subparagraph (a)(ii), by inserting ``or regional'' after ``local''; and (c) in paragraph (3)(d), by striking ``the local community or region'' and inserting ``the rural underserved populations in the local community or region''; (5) in subsection (h)(3), in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by inserting ``, as appropriate,'' after ``the secretary''; (6) by amending subsection (i) to read as follows: ``(i) report.--not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act, and every 5 years thereafter, the secretary shall prepare and submit to the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate and the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives a report on the activities and outcomes of the grant programs under subsections (e), (f), and (g), including the impact of projects funded under such programs on the health status of rural residents with chronic conditions.''; and (7) in subsection (j), by striking ``$45,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2008 through 2012'' and inserting ``$79,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''. sec. 3214. united states public health service modernization. (a) commissioned corps and ready reserve corps.--section 203 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 204) is amended-- (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``a ready reserve corps for service in time of national emergency'' and inserting ``, for service in time of a public health or national emergency, a ready reserve corps''; and (2) in subsection (c)-- (a) in the heading, by striking ``research'' and inserting ``reserve corps''; (b) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``during public health or national emergencies'' before the period; (c) in paragraph (2)-- (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by inserting ``, consistent with paragraph (1)'' after ``shall''; (ii) in subparagraph (c), by inserting ``during such emergencies'' after ``members''; and (iii) in subparagraph (d), by inserting ``, consistent with subparagraph (c)'' before the period; and (d) by adding at the end the following: ``(3) statutory references to reserve.--a reference in any federal statute, except in the case of subsection (b), to the `reserve corps' of the public health service or to the `reserve' of the public health service shall be deemed to be a reference to the ready reserve corps.''. (b) deployment readiness.--section 203a(a)(1)(b) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 204a(a)(1)(b)) is amended by striking ``active reserves'' and inserting ``ready reserve corps''. (c) retirement of commissioned officers.--section 211 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 212) is amended-- (1) by striking ``the service'' each place it appears and inserting ``the regular corps''; (2) in subsection (a)(4), by striking ``(in the case of an officer in the reserve corps)''; (3) in subsection (c)-- (a) in paragraph (1)-- (i) by striking ``or an officer of the reserve corps''; and (ii) by inserting ``or under section 221(a)(19)'' after ``subsection (a)''; and (b) in paragraph (2), by striking ``regular or reserve corps'' and inserting ``regular corps or ready reserve corps''; and (4) in subsection (f), by striking ``the regular or reserve corps of''. (d) rights, privileges, etc. of officers and surviving beneficiaries.--section 221 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 213a) is amended-- (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following: ``(19) chapter 1223, retired pay for non-regular service. ``(20) section 12601, compensation: reserve on active duty accepting from any person. ``(21) section 12684, reserves: separation for absence without authority or sentence to imprisonment.''; and (2) in subsection (b)-- (a) by striking ``secretary of health, education, and welfare or his designee'' and inserting ``secretary of health and human services or the designee of such secretary''; (b) by striking ``(b) the authority vested'' and inserting the following: [[page h1756]] ``(b)(1) the authority vested''; (c) by striking ``for purposes of'' and inserting the following: ``(2) for purposes of''; and (d) by adding at the end the following: ``(3) for purposes of paragraph (19) of subsection (a), the terms `military department', `secretary concerned', and `armed forces' in such title 10 shall be deemed to include, respectively, the department of health and human services, the secretary of health and human services, and the commissioned corps.''. (e) technical amendments.--title ii of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 202 et seq.) is amended-- (1) in sections 204 and 207(c), by striking ``regular or reserve corps'' each place it appears and inserting ``regular corps or ready reserve corps''; (2) in section 208(a), by striking ``regular and reserve corps'' each place it appears and inserting ``regular corps and ready reserve corps''; and (3) in section 205(c), 206(c), 210, and 219, and in subsections (a), (b), and (d) of section 207, by striking ``reserve corps'' each place it appears and inserting ``ready reserve corps''. sec. 3215. limitation on liability for volunteer health care professionals during covid-19 emergency response. (a) limitation on liability.--except as provided in subsection (b), a health care professional shall not be liable under federal or state law for any harm caused by an act or omission of the professional in the provision of health care services during the public health emergency with respect to covid-19 declared by the secretary of health and human services (referred to in this section as the ``secretary'') under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d) on january 31, 2020, if-- (1) the professional is providing health care services in response to such public health emergency, as a volunteer; and (2) the act or omission occurs-- (a) in the course of providing health care services; (b) in the health care professional's capacity as a volunteer; (c) in the course of providing health care services that-- (i) are within the scope of the license, registration, or certification of the volunteer, as defined by the state of licensure, registration, or certification; and (ii) do not exceed the scope of license, registration, or certification of a substantially similar health professional in the state in which such act or omission occurs; and (d) in a good faith belief that the individual being treated is in need of health care services. (b) exceptions.--subsection (a) does not apply if-- (1) the harm was caused by an act or omission constituting willful or criminal misconduct, gross negligence, reckless misconduct, or a conscious flagrant indifference to the rights or safety of the individual harmed by the health care professional; or (2) the health care professional rendered the health care services under the influence (as determined pursuant to applicable state law) of alcohol or an intoxicating drug. (c) preemption.-- (1) in general.--this section preempts the laws of a state or any political subdivision of a state to the extent that such laws are inconsistent with this section, unless such laws provide greater protection from liability. (2) volunteer protection act.--protections afforded by this section are in addition to those provided by the volunteer protection act of 1997 (public law 105-19). (d) definitions.--in this section-- (1) the term ``harm'' includes physical, nonphysical, economic, and noneconomic losses; (2) the term ``health care professional'' means an individual who is licensed, registered, or certified under federal or state law to provide health care services; (3) the term ``health care services'' means any services provided by a health care professional, or by any individual working under the supervision of a health care professional that relate to-- (a) the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of covid-19; or (b) the assessment or care of the health of a human being related to an actual or suspected case of covid-19; and (4) the term ``volunteer'' means a health care professional who, with respect to the health care services rendered, does not receive compensation or any other thing of value in lieu of compensation, which compensation-- (a) includes a payment under any insurance policy or health plan, or under any federal or state health benefits program; and (b) excludes-- (i) receipt of items to be used exclusively for rendering health care services in the health care professional's capacity as a volunteer described in subsection (a)(1); and (ii) any reimbursement for travel to the site where the volunteer services are rendered and any payments in cash or kind to cover room and board, if services are being rendered more than 75 miles from the volunteer's principal place of residence. (e) effective date.--this section shall take effect upon the date of enactment of this act, and applies to a claim for harm only if the act or omission that caused such harm occurred on or after the date of enactment. (f) sunset.--this section shall be in effect only for the length of the public health emergency declared by the secretary of health and human services (referred to in this section as the ``secretary'') under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d) on january 31, 2020 with respect to covid-19. sec. 3216. flexibility for members of national health service corps during emergency period. during the public health emergency declared by the secretary of health and human services under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d) on january 31, 2020, with respect to covid-19, the secretary may, notwithstanding section 333 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 254f), assign members of the national health service corps, with the voluntary agreement of such corps members, to provide such health services at such places, and for such number of hours, as the secretary determines necessary to respond to such emergency, provided that such places are within a reasonable distance of the site to which such members were originally assigned, and the total number of hours required are the same as were required of such members prior to the date of enactment of this act. subpart c--miscellaneous provisions sec. 3221. confidentiality and disclosure of records relating to substance use disorder. (a) conforming changes relating to substance use disorder.--subsections (a) and (h) of section 543 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd-2) are each amended by striking ``substance abuse'' and inserting ``substance use disorder''. (b) disclosures to covered entities consistent with hipaa.--paragraph (1) of section 543(b) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd-2(b)) is amended to read as follows: ``(1) consent.--the following shall apply with respect to the contents of any record referred to in subsection (a): ``(a) such contents may be used or disclosed in accordance with the prior written consent of the patient with respect to whom such record is maintained. ``(b) once prior written consent of the patient has been obtained, such contents may be used or disclosed by a covered entity, business associate, or a program subject to this section for purposes of treatment, payment, and health care operations as permitted by the hipaa regulations. any information so disclosed may then be redisclosed in accordance with the hipaa regulations. section 13405(c) of the health information technology and clinical health act (42 u.s.c. 17935(c)) shall apply to all disclosures pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of this section. ``(c) it shall be permissible for a patient's prior written consent to be given once for all such future uses or disclosures for purposes of treatment, payment, and health care operations, until such time as the patient revokes such consent in writing. ``(d) section 13405(a) of the health information technology and clinical health act (42 u.s.c. 17935(a)) shall apply to all disclosures pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of this section.''. (c) disclosures of de-identified health information to public health authorities.--paragraph (2) of section 543(b) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd-2(b)), is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(d) to a public health authority, so long as such content meets the standards established in section 164.514(b) of title 45, code of federal regulations (or successor regulations) for creating de-identified information.''. (d) definitions.--section 543 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd-2) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(k) definitions.--for purposes of this section: ``(1) breach.--the term `breach' has the meaning given such term for purposes of the hipaa regulations. ``(2) business associate.--the term `business associate' has the meaning given such term for purposes of the hipaa regulations. ``(3) covered entity.--the term `covered entity' has the meaning given such term for purposes of the hipaa regulations. ``(4) health care operations.--the term `health care operations' has the meaning given such term for purposes of the hipaa regulations. ``(5) hipaa regulations.--the term `hipaa regulations' has the meaning given such term for purposes of parts 160 and 164 of title 45, code of federal regulations. ``(6) payment.--the term `payment' has the meaning given such term for purposes of the hipaa regulations. ``(7) public health authority.--the term `public health authority' has the meaning given such term for purposes of the hipaa regulations. ``(8) treatment.--the term `treatment' has the meaning given such term for purposes of the hipaa regulations. ``(9) unsecured protected health information.--the term `unprotected health information' has the meaning given such term for purposes of the hipaa regulations.''. (e) use of records in criminal, civil, or administrative investigations, actions, or proceedings.--subsection (c) of section 543 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd-2(c)) is amended to read as follows: ``(c) use of records in criminal, civil, or administrative contexts.--except as otherwise authorized by a court order under subsection (b)(2)(c) or by the consent of the patient, a record referred to in subsection (a), or testimony relaying the information contained therein, may not be disclosed or used in any civil, criminal, administrative, or legislative proceedings conducted by any federal, state, or local authority, against a patient, including with respect to the following activities: ``(1) such record or testimony shall not be entered into evidence in any criminal prosecution or civil action before a federal or state court. ``(2) such record or testimony shall not form part of the record for decision or otherwise be taken into account in any proceeding before a federal, state, or local agency. [[page h1757]] ``(3) such record or testimony shall not be used by any federal, state, or local agency for a law enforcement purpose or to conduct any law enforcement investigation. ``(4) such record or testimony shall not be used in any application for a warrant.''. (f) penalties.--subsection (f) of section 543 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd-2) is amended to read as follows: ``(f) penalties.--the provisions of sections 1176 and 1177 of the social security act shall apply to a violation of this section to the extent and in the same manner as such provisions apply to a violation of part c of title xi of such act. in applying the previous sentence-- ``(1) the reference to `this subsection' in subsection (a)(2) of such section 1176 shall be treated as a reference to `this subsection (including as applied pursuant to section 543(f) of the public health service act)'; and ``(2) in subsection (b) of such section 1176-- ``(a) each reference to `a penalty imposed under subsection (a)' shall be treated as a reference to `a penalty imposed under subsection (a) (including as applied pursuant to section 543(f) of the public health service act)'; and ``(b) each reference to `no damages obtained under subsection (d)' shall be treated as a reference to `no damages obtained under subsection (d) (including as applied pursuant to section 543(f) of the public health service act)'.''. (g) antidiscrimination.--section 543 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd-2) is amended by inserting after subsection (h) the following: ``(i) antidiscrimination.-- ``(1) in general.--no entity shall discriminate against an individual on the basis of information received by such entity pursuant to an inadvertent or intentional disclosure of records, or information contained in records, described in subsection (a) in-- ``(a) admission, access to, or treatment for health care; ``(b) hiring, firing, or terms of employment, or receipt of worker's compensation; ``(c) the sale, rental, or continued rental of housing; ``(d) access to federal, state, or local courts; or ``(e) access to, approval of, or maintenance of social services and benefits provided or funded by federal, state, or local governments. ``(2) recipients of federal funds.--no recipient of federal funds shall discriminate against an individual on the basis of information received by such recipient pursuant to an intentional or inadvertent disclosure of such records or information contained in records described in subsection (a) in affording access to the services provided with such funds.''. (h) notification in case of breach.--section 543 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd-2), as amended by subsection (g), is further amended by inserting after subsection (i) the following: ``(j) notification in case of breach.--the provisions of section 13402 of the hitech act (42 u.s.c. 17932) shall apply to a program or activity described in subsection (a), in case of a breach of records described in subsection (a), to the same extent and in the same manner as such provisions apply to a covered entity in the case of a breach of unsecured protected health information.''. (i) regulations.-- (1) in general.--the secretary of health and human services, in consultation with appropriate federal agencies, shall make such revisions to regulations as may be necessary for implementing and enforcing the amendments made by this section, such that such amendments shall apply with respect to uses and disclosures of information occurring on or after the date that is 12 months after the date of enactment of this act. (2) easily understandable notice of privacy practices.--not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of health and human services, in consultation with appropriate legal, clinical, privacy, and civil rights experts, shall update section 164.520 of title 45, code of federal regulations, so that covered entities and entities creating or maintaining the records described in subsection (a) provide notice, written in plain language, of privacy practices regarding patient records referred to in section 543(a) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd- 2(a)), including-- (a) a statement of the patient's rights, including self-pay patients, with respect to protected health information and a brief description of how the individual may exercise these rights (as required by subsection (b)(1)(iv) of such section 164.520); and (b) a description of each purpose for which the covered entity is permitted or required to use or disclose protected health information without the patient's written authorization (as required by subsection (b)(2) of such section 164.520). (j) rules of construction.--nothing in this act or the amendments made by this act shall be construed to limit-- (1) a patient's right, as described in section 164.522 of title 45, code of federal regulations, or any successor regulation, to request a restriction on the use or disclosure of a record referred to in section 543(a) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd-2(a)) for purposes of treatment, payment, or health care operations; or (2) a covered entity's choice, as described in section 164.506 of title 45, code of federal regulations, or any successor regulation, to obtain the consent of the individual to use or disclose a record referred to in such section 543(a) to carry out treatment, payment, or health care operation. (k) sense of congress.--it is the sense of the congress that-- (1) any person treating a patient through a program or activity with respect to which the confidentiality requirements of section 543 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd-2) apply is encouraged to access the applicable state-based prescription drug monitoring program when clinically appropriate; (2) patients have the right to request a restriction on the use or disclosure of a record referred to in section 543(a) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd-2(a)) for treatment, payment, or health care operations; (3) covered entities should make every reasonable effort to the extent feasible to comply with a patient's request for a restriction regarding such use or disclosure; (4) for purposes of applying section 164.501 of title 45, code of federal regulations, the definition of health care operations shall have the meaning given such term in such section, except that clause (v) of paragraph (6) shall not apply; and (5) programs creating records referred to in section 543(a) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 290dd-2(a)) should receive positive incentives for discussing with their patients the benefits to consenting to share such records. sec. 3222. nutrition services. (a) definitions.--in this section, the terms ``assistant secretary'', ``secretary'', ``state agency'', and ``area agency on aging'' have the meanings given the terms in section 102 of the older americans act of 1965 (42 u.s.c. 3002). (b) nutrition services transfer criteria.--during any portion of the covid-19 public health emergency declared under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d), the secretary shall allow a state agency or an area agency on aging, without prior approval, to transfer not more than 100 percent of the funds received by the state agency or area agency on aging, respectively, and attributable to funds appropriated under paragraph (1) or (2) of section 303(b) of the older americans act of 1965 (42 u.s.c. 3023(b)), between subpart 1 and subpart 2 of part c (42 u.s.c. 3030d-2 et seq.) for such use as the state agency or area agency on aging, respectively, considers appropriate to meet the needs of the state or area served. (c) home-delivered nutrition services waiver.--for purposes of state agencies' determining the delivery of nutrition services under section 337 of the older americans act of 1965 (42 u.s.c. 3030g), during the period of the covid-19 public health emergency declared under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d), the same meaning shall be given to an individual who is unable to obtain nutrition because the individual is practicing social distancing due to the emergency as is given to an individual who is homebound by reason of illness. (d) dietary guidelines waiver.--to facilitate implementation of subparts 1 and 2 of part c of title iii of the older americans act of 1965 (42 u.s.c. 3030d-2 et seq.) during any portion of the covid-19 public health emergency declared under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d), the assistant secretary may waive the requirements for meals provided under those subparts to comply with the requirements of clauses (i) and (ii) of section 339(2)(a) of such act (42 u.s.c. 3030g-21(2)(a)). sec. 3223. continuity of service and opportunities for participants in community service activities under title v of the older americans act of 1965. to ensure continuity of service and opportunities for participants in community service activities under title v of the older americans act of 1965 (42 u.s.c. 3056 et seq.), the secretary of labor-- (1)(a) may allow individuals participating in projects under such title as of march 1, 2020, to extend their participation for a period that exceeds the period described in section 518(a)(3)(b)(i) of such act (42 u.s.c. 3056p(a)(3)(b)(i)) if the secretary determines such extension is appropriate due to the effects of the covid-19 public health emergency declared under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d); and (b) may increase the average participation cap for eligible individuals applicable to grantees as described in section 502(b)(1)(c) of the older americans act of 1965 (42 u.s.c. 3056(b)(1)(c)) to a cap the secretary determines is appropriate due to the effects of the covid-19 public health emergency declared under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d); and (2) may increase the amount available to pay the authorized administrative costs for a project, described in section 502(c)(3) of the older americans act of 1965 (42 u.s.c. 3056(c)(3)) to an amount not to exceed 20 percent of the grant amount if the secretary determines that such increase is necessary to adequately respond to the additional administrative needs to respond to the covid-19 public health emergency declared under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d). sec. 3224. guidance on protected health information. not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of health and human services shall issue guidance on the sharing of patients' protected health information pursuant to section 160.103 of title 45, code of federal regulations (or any successor regulations) during the public health emergency declared by the secretary of health and human services under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d) with respect to covid-19, during the emergency involving federal primary responsibility determined to exist by the president under section 501(b) of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5191(b)) with respect to covid-19, and during the national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) [[page h1758]] with respect to covid-19. such guidance shall include information on compliance with the regulations promulgated pursuant to section 264(c) of the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 (42 u.s.c. 1320d-2 note) and applicable policies, including such policies that may come into effect during such emergencies. sec. 3225. reauthorization of healthy start program. section 330h of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 254c-8) is amended-- (1) in subsection (a)-- (a) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, during fiscal year 2001 and subsequent years,''; and (b) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or increasing above the national average'' after ``areas with high''; (2) in subsection (b)-- (a) in paragraph (1), by striking ``consumers of project services, public health departments, hospitals, health centers under section 330'' and inserting ``participants and former participants of project services, public health departments, hospitals, health centers under section 330, state substance abuse agencies''; and (b) in paragraph (2)-- (i) in subparagraph (a), by striking ``such as low birthweight'' and inserting ``including poor birth outcomes (such as low birthweight and preterm birth) and social determinants of health''; (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (b) as subparagraph (c); (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (a), the following: ``(b) communities with-- ``(i) high rates of infant mortality or poor perinatal outcomes; or ``(ii) high rates of infant mortality or poor perinatal outcomes in specific subpopulations within the community.''; and (iv) in subparagraph (c) (as so redesignated)-- (i) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as clauses (ii) and (iii), respectively; (ii) by inserting before clause (ii) (as so redesignated) the following: ``(i) collaboration with the local community in the development of the project;''; (iii) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated), by striking ``and'' at the end; (iv) in clause (iii) (as so redesignated), by striking the period and inserting ``; and''; and (v) by adding at the end the following: ``(iv) the use and collection of data demonstrating the effectiveness of such program in decreasing infant mortality rates and improving perinatal outcomes, as applicable, or the process by which new applicants plan to collect this data.''; (3) in subsection (c)-- (a) by striking ``recipients of grants'' and inserting the following: ``(1) in general.--recipients of grants''; and (b) by adding at the end the following: ``(2) other programs.--the secretary shall ensure coordination of the program carried out pursuant to this section with other programs and activities related to the reduction of the rate of infant mortality and improved perinatal and infant health outcomes supported by the department.''; (4) in subsection (e)-- (a) in paragraph (1), by striking ``appropriated--'' and all that follows through the end and inserting ``appropriated $125,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.''; and (b) in paragraph (2)(b), by adding at the end the following: ``evaluations may also include, to the extent practicable, information related to-- ``(i) progress toward achieving any grant metrics or outcomes related to reducing infant mortality rates, improving perinatal outcomes, or reducing the disparity in health status; ``(ii) recommendations on potential improvements that may assist with addressing gaps, as applicable and appropriate; and ``(iii) the extent to which the grantee coordinated with the community in which the grantee is located in the development of the project and delivery of services, including with respect to technical assistance and mentorship programs.''; and (5) by adding at the end the following: ``(f) gao report.-- ``(1) in general.--not later than 4 years after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the comptroller general of the united states shall conduct an independent evaluation, and submit to the appropriate committees of congress a report, concerning the healthy start program under this section. ``(2) evaluation.--in conducting the evaluation under paragraph (1), the comptroller general shall consider, as applicable and appropriate, information from the evaluations under subsection (e)(2)(b). ``(3) report.--the report described in paragraph (1) shall review, assess, and provide recommendations, as appropriate, on the following: ``(a) the allocation of healthy start program grants by the health resources and services administration, including considerations made by such administration regarding disparities in infant mortality or perinatal outcomes among urban and rural areas in making such awards. ``(b) trends in the progress made toward meeting the evaluation criteria pursuant to subsection (e)(2)(b), including programs which decrease infant mortality rates and improve perinatal outcomes, programs that have not decreased infant mortality rates or improved perinatal outcomes, and programs that have made an impact on disparities in infant mortality or perinatal outcomes. ``(c) the ability of grantees to improve health outcomes for project participants, promote the awareness of the healthy start program services, incorporate and promote family participation, facilitate coordination with the community in which the grantee is located, and increase grantee accountability through quality improvement, performance monitoring, evaluation, and the effect such metrics may have toward decreasing the rate of infant mortality and improving perinatal outcomes. ``(d) the extent to which such federal programs are coordinated across agencies and the identification of opportunities for improved coordination in such federal programs and activities.''. sec. 3226. importance of the blood supply. (a) in general.--the secretary of health and human services (referred to in this section as the ``secretary'') shall carry out a national campaign to improve awareness of, and support outreach to the public and health care providers about the importance and safety of blood donation and the need for donations for the blood supply during the public health emergency declared by the secretary under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d) with respect to covid-19. (b) awareness campaign.--in carrying out subsection (a), the secretary may enter into contracts with one or more public or private nonprofit entities, to establish a national blood donation awareness campaign that may include television, radio, internet, and newspaper public service announcements, and other activities to provide for public and professional awareness and education. (c) consultation.--in carrying out subsection (a), the secretary shall consult with the commissioner of food and drugs, the assistant secretary for health, the director of the centers for disease control and prevention, the director of the national institutes of health, and the heads of other relevant federal agencies, and relevant accrediting bodies and representative organizations. (d) report to congress.--not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary shall submit to the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate and the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives, a report that shall include-- (1) a description of the activities carried out under subsection (a); (2) a description of trends in blood supply donations; and (3) an evaluation of the impact of the public awareness campaign, including any geographic or population variations. part iii--innovation sec. 3301. removing the cap on ota during public health emergencies. section 319l(c)(5)(a) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d-7e(c)(5)(a)) is amended-- (1) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv); and (2) by inserting after clause (ii) the following: ``(iii) authority during a public health emergency.-- ``(i) in general.--notwithstanding clause (ii), the secretary, shall, to the maximum extent practicable, use competitive procedures when entering into transactions to carry out projects under this subsection for purposes of a public health emergency declared by the secretary under section 319. any such transactions entered into during such public health emergency shall not be terminated solely due to the expiration of such public health emergency, if such public health emergency ends before the completion of the terms of such agreement. ``(ii) report.--after the expiration of the public health emergency declared by the secretary under section 319, the secretary shall provide a report to the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate and the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives regarding the use of any funds pursuant to the authority under subclause (i), including any outcomes, benefits, and risks associated with the use of such funds, and a description of the reasons for the use of such authority for the project or projects.''. sec. 3302. priority zoonotic animal drugs. chapter v of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 351 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 512 the following: ``sec. 512a. priority zoonotic animal drugs. ``(a) in general.--the secretary shall, at the request of the sponsor intending to submit an application for approval of a new animal drug under section 512(b)(1) or an application for conditional approval of a new animal drug under section 571, expedite the development and review of such new animal drug if preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the new animal drug, alone or in combination with 1 or more other animal drugs, has the potential to prevent or treat a zoonotic disease in animals, including a vector borne-disease, that has the potential to cause serious adverse health consequences for, or serious or life- threatening diseases in, humans. ``(b) request for designation.--the sponsor of a new animal drug may request the secretary to designate a new animal drug described in subsection (a) as a priority zoonotic animal drug. a request for the designation may be made concurrently with, or at any time after, the opening of an investigational new animal drug file under section 512(j) or the filing of an application under section 512(b)(1) or 571. ``(c) designation.-- ``(1) in general.--not later than 60 calendar days after the receipt of a request under subsection (b), the secretary shall determine whether the new animal drug that is the subject of the request meets the criteria described in subsection (a). if the secretary determines that the new animal drug meets the criteria, the secretary shall designate the new animal drug as a priority zoonotic animal drug and shall take such [[page h1759]] actions as are appropriate to expedite the development and review of the application for approval or conditional approval of such new animal drug. ``(2) actions.--the actions to expedite the development and review of an application under paragraph (1) may include, as appropriate-- ``(a) taking steps to ensure that the design of clinical trials is as efficient as practicable, when scientifically appropriate, such as by utilizing novel trial designs or drug development tools (including biomarkers) that may reduce the number of animals needed for studies; ``(b) providing timely advice to, and interactive communication with, the sponsor (which may include meetings with the sponsor and review team) regarding the development of the new animal drug to ensure that the development program to gather the nonclinical and clinical data necessary for approval is as efficient as practicable; ``(c) involving senior managers and review staff with experience in zoonotic or vector-borne disease to facilitate collaborative, cross-disciplinary review, including, as appropriate, across agency centers; and ``(d) implementing additional administrative or process enhancements, as necessary, to facilitate an efficient review and development program.''. part iv--health care workforce sec. 3401. reauthorization of health professions workforce programs. title vii of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 292 et seq.) is amended-- (1) in section 736 (42 u.s.c. 293), by striking subsection (i) and inserting the following: ``(i) authorization of appropriations.--to carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $23,711,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.''; (2) in section 740 (42 u.s.c. 293d)-- (a) in subsection (a), by striking ``$51,000,000 for fiscal year 2010, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2011 through 2014'' and inserting ``$51,470,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''; (b) in subsection (b), by striking ``$5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2014'' and inserting ``$1,190,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''; (c) in subsection (c), by striking ``$60,000,000 for fiscal year 2010 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2011 through 2014'' and inserting ``$15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''; and (d) in subsection (d), by striking ``not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this part, the secretary shall prepare and submit to the appropriate committees of congress'' and inserting: ``not later than september 30, 2025, and every five years thereafter, the secretary shall prepare and submit to the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate, and the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives,''; (3) in section 747 (42 u.s.c. 293k)-- (a) in subsection (a)-- (i) in paragraph (1)(g), by striking ``to plan, develop, and operate a demonstration program that provides training'' and inserting: ``to plan, develop, and operate a program that identifies or develops innovative models of providing care, and trains primary care physicians on such models and''; and (ii) by adding at the end the following: ``(3) priorities in making awards.--in awarding grants or contracts under paragraph (1), the secretary may give priority to qualified applicants that train residents in rural areas, including for tribes or tribal organizations in such areas.''; (b) in subsection (b)(3)(e), by striking ``substance- related disorders'' and inserting ``substance use disorders''; and (c) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``$125,000,000 for fiscal year 2010, and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2014'' and inserting ``$48,924,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''; (4) in section 748 (42 u.s.c. 293k-2)-- (a) in subsection (c)(5), by striking ``substance-related disorders'' and inserting ``substance use disorders''; and (b) in subsection (f), by striking ``$30,000,000 for fiscal year 2010 and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2011 through 2015'' and inserting ``$28,531,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''; (5) in section 749(d)(2) (42 u.s.c. 293l(d)(2)), by striking ``committee on labor and human resources of the senate, and the committee on commerce of the house of representatives'' and inserting ``committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate, and the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives''; (6) in section 751(j)(1) (42 u.s.c. 294a(j)(1)), by striking ``$125,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2014'' and inserting ``$41,250,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''; (7) in section 754(b)(1)(a) (42 u.s.c. 294d(b)(1)(a)), by striking ``new and innovative'' and inserting ``innovative or evidence-based''; (8) in section 755(b)(1)(a) (42 u.s.c. 294e(b)(1)(a)), by striking ``the elderly'' and inserting ``geriatric populations or for maternal and child health''; (9) in section 761(e) (42 u.s.c. 294n(e))-- (a) in paragraph (1)(a), by striking ``$7,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2014'' and inserting ``$5,663,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''; and (b) in paragraph (2), by striking ``subsection (a)'' and inserting ``paragraph (1)''; (10) in section 762 (42 u.s.c. 294o)-- (a) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``committee on labor and human resources'' and inserting ``committee on health, education, labor, and pensions''; (b) in subsection (b)-- (i) in paragraph (2), by striking ``health care financing administration'' and inserting ``centers for medicare & medicaid services''; (ii) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (6) as paragraphs (5) through (7), respectively; and (iii) by inserting after paragraph (3), the following: ``(4) the administrator of the health resources and services administration;''; (c) by striking subsections (i), (j), and (k) and inserting the following: ``(i) reports.--not later than september 30, 2023, and not less than every 5 years thereafter, the council shall submit to the secretary, and to the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate and the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives, a report on the recommendations described in subsection (a).''; and (d) by redesignating subsection (l) as subsection (j); (11) in section 766(b)(1) (42 u.s.c. 295a(b)(1)), by striking ``that plans'' and all that follows through the period and inserting ``that plans, develops, operates, and evaluates projects to improve preventive medicine, health promotion and disease prevention, or access to and quality of health care services in rural or medically underserved communities.''; (12) in section 770(a) (42 u.s.c. 295e(a)), by striking ``$43,000,000 for fiscal year 2011, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2012 through 2015'' and inserting ``$17,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''; and (13) in section 775(e) (42 u.s.c. 295f(e)), by striking ``$30,000,000'' and all that follows through the period and inserting ``such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025.''. sec. 3402. health workforce coordination. (a) strategic plan.-- (1) in general.--not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of health and human services (referred to in this act as the ``secretary''), in consultation with the advisory committee on training in primary care medicine and dentistry and the advisory council on graduate medical education, shall develop a comprehensive and coordinated plan with respect to the health care workforce development programs of the department of health and human services, including education and training programs. (2) requirements.--the plan under paragraph (1) shall-- (a) include performance measures to determine the extent to which the programs described in paragraph (1) are strengthening the nation's health care system; (b) identify any gaps that exist between the outcomes of programs described in paragraph (1) and projected health care workforce needs identified in workforce projection reports conducted by the health resources and services administration; (c) identify actions to address the gaps described in subparagraph (b); and (d) identify barriers, if any, to implementing the actions identified under subparagraph (c). (b) coordination with other agencies.--the secretary shall coordinate with the heads of other federal agencies and departments that fund or administer health care workforce development programs, including education and training programs, to-- (1) evaluate the performance of such programs, including the extent to which such programs are efficient and effective and are meeting the nation's health workforce needs; and (2) identify opportunities to improve the quality and consistency of the information collected to evaluate within and across such programs, and to implement such improvements. (c) report.--not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary shall submit to the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate, and the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives, a report describing the plan developed under subsection (a) and actions taken to implement such plan. sec. 3403. education and training relating to geriatrics. section 753 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 294c) is amended to read as follows: ``sec. 753. education and training relating to geriatrics. ``(a) geriatrics workforce enhancement program.-- ``(1) in general.--the secretary shall award grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements under this subsection to entities described in paragraph (1), (3), or (4) of section 799b, section 801(2), or section 865(d), or other health professions schools or programs approved by the secretary, for the establishment or operation of geriatrics workforce enhancement programs that meet the requirements of paragraph (2). ``(2) requirements.-- ``(a) in general.--a geriatrics workforce enhancement program receiving an award under this section shall support the training of health professionals in geriatrics, including traineeships or fellowships. such programs shall emphasize, as appropriate, patient and family engagement, integration of geriatrics with primary care and other appropriate specialties, and collaboration with community partners to address gaps in health care for older adults. ``(b) activities.--activities conducted by a program under this section may include the following: ``(i) clinical training on providing integrated geriatrics and primary care delivery services. ``(ii) interprofessional training to practitioners from multiple disciplines and specialties, including training on the provision of care to older adults. [[page h1760]] ``(iii) establishing or maintaining training-related community-based programs for older adults and caregivers to improve health outcomes for older adults. ``(iv) providing education on alzheimer's disease and related dementias to families and caregivers of older adults, direct care workers, and health professions students, faculty, and providers. ``(3) duration.--each grant, contract, or cooperative agreement or contract awarded under paragraph (1) shall be for a period not to exceed 5 years. ``(4) applications.--to be eligible to receive a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under paragraph (1), an entity described in such paragraph shall submit to the secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the secretary may require. ``(5) program requirements.-- ``(a) in general.--in awarding grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under paragraph (1), the secretary-- ``(i) shall give priority to programs that demonstrate coordination with another federal or state program or another public or private entity; ``(ii) shall give priority to applicants with programs or activities that are expected to substantially benefit rural or medically underserved populations of older adults, or serve older adults in indian tribes or tribal organizations; and ``(iii) may give priority to any program that-- ``(i) integrates geriatrics into primary care practice; ``(ii) provides training to integrate geriatric care into other specialties across care settings, including practicing clinical specialists, health care administrators, faculty without backgrounds in geriatrics, and students from all health professions; ``(iii) emphasizes integration of geriatric care into existing service delivery locations and care across settings, including primary care clinics, medical homes, federally qualified health centers, ambulatory care clinics, critical access hospitals, emergency care, assisted living and nursing facilities, and home- and community-based services, which may include adult daycare; ``(iv) supports the training and retraining of faculty, primary care providers, other direct care providers, and other appropriate professionals on geriatrics; ``(v) emphasizes education and engagement of family caregivers on disease management and strategies to meet the needs of caregivers of older adults; or ``(vi) proposes to conduct outreach to communities that have a shortage of geriatric workforce professionals. ``(b) special consideration.--in awarding grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under this section, the secretary shall give special consideration to entities that provide services in areas with a shortage of geriatric workforce professionals. ``(6) priority.--the secretary may provide awardees with additional support for activities in areas of demonstrated need, which may include education and training for home health workers, family caregivers, and direct care workers on care for older adults. ``(7) reporting.-- ``(a) reports from entities.--each entity awarded a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under this section shall submit an annual report to the secretary on the activities conducted under such grant, contract, or cooperative agreement, which may include information on the number of trainees, the number of professions and disciplines, the number of partnerships with health care delivery sites, the number of faculty and practicing professionals who participated in such programs, and other information, as the secretary may require. ``(b) report to congress.--not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of the title vii health care workforce reauthorization act of 2019 and every 5 years thereafter, the secretary shall submit to the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate and the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives a report that provides a summary of the activities and outcomes associated with grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements made under this section. such reports shall include-- ``(i) information on the number of trainees, faculty, and professionals who participated in programs under this section; ``(ii) information on the impact of the program conducted under this section on the health status of older adults, including in areas with a shortage of health professionals; and ``(iii) information on outreach and education provided under this section to families and caregivers of older adults. ``(c) public availability.--the secretary shall make reports submitted under paragraph (b) publically available on the internet website of the department of health and human services. ``(b) geriatric academic career awards.-- ``(1) establishment of program.--the secretary shall, as appropriate, establish or maintain a program to provide geriatric academic career awards to eligible entities applying on behalf of eligible individuals to promote the career development of such individuals as academic geriatricians or other academic geriatrics health professionals. ``(2) eligibility.-- ``(a) eligible entity.--for purposes of this subsection, the term `eligible entity' means-- ``(i) an entity described in paragraph (1), (3), or (4) of section 799b or section 801(2); or ``(ii) another accredited health professions school or graduate program approved by the secretary. ``(b) eligible individual.--for purposes of this subsection, the term `eligible individual' means an individual who-- ``(i)(i) is board certified or board eligible in internal medicine, family practice, psychiatry, or licensed dentistry, or has completed required training in a discipline and is employed in an accredited health professions school or graduate program that is approved by the secretary; or ``(ii) has completed an approved fellowship program in geriatrics, or has completed specialty training in geriatrics as required by the discipline and any additional geriatrics training as required by the secretary; and ``(ii) has a junior, nontenured, faculty appointment at an accredited health professions school or graduate program in geriatrics or a geriatrics health profession. ``(c) clarification.--if an eligible individual is promoted during the period of an award under this subsection and thereby no longer meets the criteria of subparagraph (b)(ii), the individual shall continue to be treated as an eligible individual through the term of the award. ``(3) application requirements.--in order to receive an award under paragraph (1), an eligible entity, on behalf of an eligible individual, shall-- ``(a) submit to the secretary an application, at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the secretary may require; ``(b) provide, in such form and manner as the secretary may require, assurances that the eligible individual will meet the service requirement described in paragraph (6); and ``(c) provide, in such form and manner as the secretary may require, assurances that the individual has a full-time faculty appointment in a health professions institution and documented commitment from such eligible entity that the individual will spend 75 percent of the individual's time that is supported by the award on teaching and developing skills in interdisciplinary education in geriatrics. ``(4) equitable distribution.--in making awards under this subsection, the secretary shall seek to ensure geographical distribution among award recipients, including among rural or medically underserved areas of the united states. ``(5) amount and duration.-- ``(a) amount.--the amount of an award under this subsection shall be at least $75,000 for fiscal year 2021, adjusted for subsequent years in accordance with the consumer price index. the secretary shall determine the amount of an award under this subsection for individuals who are not physicians. ``(b) duration.--the secretary shall make awards under paragraph (1) for a period not to exceed 5 years. ``(6) service requirement.--an individual who receives an award under this subsection shall provide training in clinical geriatrics, including the training of interprofessional teams of health care professionals. the provision of such training shall constitute at least 75 percent of the obligations of such individual under the award. ``(c) nonapplicability of provision.--notwithstanding any other provision of this title, section 791(a) shall not apply to awards made under this section. ``(d) authorization of appropriations.--there is authorized to be appropriated $40,737,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025 for purposes of carrying out this section.''. sec. 3404. nursing workforce development. (a) in general.--title viii of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 296 et seq.) is amended-- (1) in section 801 (42 u.s.c. 296), by adding at the end the following: ``(18) nurse managed health clinic.--the term `nurse managed health clinic' means a nurse-practice arrangement, managed by advanced practice nurses, that provides primary care or wellness services to underserved or vulnerable populations and that is associated with a school, college, university or department of nursing, federally qualified health center, or independent nonprofit health or social services agency.''; (2) in section 802(c) (42 u.s.c. 296a(c)), by inserting ``, and how such project aligns with the goals in section 806(a)'' before the period in the second sentence; (3) in section 803(b) (42 u.s.c. 296b(b)), by adding at the end the following: ``such federal funds are intended to supplement, not supplant, existing non-federal expenditures for such activities.''; (4) in section 806 (42 u.s.c. 296e)-- (a) in subsection (a), by striking ``as needed to'' and all that follows and inserting the following: ``as needed to address national nursing needs, including-- ``(1) addressing challenges, including through supporting training and education of nursing students, related to the distribution of the nursing workforce and existing or projected nursing workforce shortages in geographic areas that have been identified as having, or that are projected to have, a nursing shortage; ``(2) increasing access to and the quality of health care services, including by supporting the training of professional registered nurses, advanced practice registered nurses, and advanced education nurses within community based settings and in a variety of health delivery system settings; or ``(3) addressing the strategic goals and priorities identified by the secretary and that are in accordance with this title. contracts may be entered into under this title with public or private entities as determined necessary by the secretary.''; (b) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``a demonstration'' and all that follows and inserting the following: ``the reporting of data and information demonstrating that satisfactory progress has been made by the program or project in meeting the performance outcome standards (as [[page h1761]] described in section 802) of such program or project.''; (c) in subsection (e)(2), by inserting ``, and have relevant expertise and experience'' before the period at the end of the first sentence; and (d) by adding at the end the following: ``(i) biennial report on nursing workforce program improvements.--not later than september 30, 2020, and biennially thereafter, the secretary shall submit to the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate and the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives, a report that contains an assessment of the programs and activities of the department of health and human services related to enhancing the nursing workforce, including the extent to which programs and activities under this title meet the identified goals and performance measures developed for the respective programs and activities, and the extent to which the department coordinates with other federal departments regarding programs designed to improve the nursing workforce.''; (5) in section 811 (42 u.s.c. 296j)-- (a) in subsection (b)-- (i) by striking ``master's'' and inserting ``graduate''; and (ii) by inserting ``clinical nurse leaders,'' after ``nurse administrators,''; (b) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (g) and (h), respectively; and (c) by inserting after subsection (e), the following: ``(f) authorized clinical nurse specialist programs.-- clinical nurse specialist programs eligible for support under this section are education programs that-- ``(1) provide registered nurses with full-time clinical nurse specialist education; and ``(2) have as their objective the education of clinical nurse specialists who will, upon completion of such a program, be qualified to effectively provide care through the wellness and illness continuum to inpatients and outpatients experiencing acute and chronic illness.''; and (6) in section 831 (42 u.s.c. 296p)-- (a) in the section heading, by striking ``and quality grants'' and inserting ``quality, and retention grants''; (b) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``other high-risk groups such as the elderly, individuals with hiv/aids, substance abusers, the homeless, and victims'' and inserting ``high risk groups, such as the elderly, individuals with hiv/aids, individuals with mental health or substance use disorders, individuals who are homeless, and survivors''; (c) in subsection (c)(1)-- (i) in subparagraph (a)-- (i) by striking ``advancement for nursing personnel'' and inserting the following: ``advancement for-- ``(i) nursing''; (ii) by striking ``professional nurses, advanced education nurses, licensed practical nurses, certified nurse assistants, and home health aides'' and inserting ``professional registered nurses, advanced practice registered nurses, and nurses with graduate nursing education''; and (iii) by adding at the end the following: ``(ii) individuals including licensed practical nurses, licensed vocational nurses, certified nurse assistants, home health aides, diploma degree or associate degree nurses, and other health professionals, such as health aides or community health practitioners certified under the community health aide program of the indian health service, to become registered nurses with baccalaureate degrees or nurses with graduate nursing education;''; (ii) in subparagraph (b), by striking the period and inserting ``; and''; and (iii) by adding at the end the following: ``(c) developing and implementing internships, accredited fellowships, and accredited residency programs in collaboration with one or more accredited schools of nursing, to encourage the mentoring and development of specialties.''; (d) by striking subsections (e) and (h); (e) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g), as subsections (e) and (f), respectively; (f) in subsection (e) (as so redesignated), by striking ``the secretary shall submit to the congress before the end of each fiscal year'' and inserting ``as part of the report on nursing workforce programs described in section 806(i), the secretary shall include''; and (g) in subsection (f) (as so redesignated), by striking ``a school of nursing, as defined in section 801(2),,'' and inserting ``an accredited school of nursing, as defined in section 801(2), a health care facility, including federally qualified health centers or nurse-managed health clinics, or a partnership of such a school and facility''; (7) by striking section 831a (42 u.s.c. 296p-1); (8) in section 846 (42 u.s.c. 297n)-- (a) by striking the last sentence of subsection (a); (b) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``he began such practice'' and inserting ``the individual began such practice''; and (c) in subsection (i), by striking ``funding'' in the subsection heading and all that follows through ``paragraph (1)'' in paragraph (2), and inserting the following: ``allocations.--of the amounts appropriated under section 871(b),''; (9) in section 846a (42 u.s.c. 247n-1), by striking subsection (f); (10) in section 847 (42 u.s.c. 297o), by striking subsection (g); (11) in section 851 (42 u.s.c. 297t)-- (a) in subsection (b)(1)(a)(iv), by striking ``and nurse anesthetists'' and inserting ``nurse anesthetists, and clinical nurse specialists''; (b) in subsection (d)(3)-- (i) by striking ``3 years after the date of enactment of this section'' and inserting ``2 years after the date of enactment of the title viii nursing reauthorization act''; (ii) by striking ``labor and human resources'' and inserting ``health, education, labor, and pensions''; and (iii) by inserting ``energy and'' before ``commerce''; and (c) in subsection (g), by striking ``under this title'' and inserting ``for carrying out parts b, c, and d''; (12) by striking sections 861 and 862 (42 u.s.c. 297w and 297x); and (13) in section 871 (42 u.s.c. 298d)-- (a) by striking ``for the purpose of'' and inserting the following: ``(a) in general.--for the purpose of''; (b) by striking ``$338,000,000 for fiscal year 2010, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2011 through 2016'' and inserting ``$137,837,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025''; and (c) by adding at the end the following: ``(b) part e.--for the purpose of carrying out part e, there are authorized to be appropriated $117,135,000 for each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2025.''. (b) evaluation and report on nurse loan repayment programs.-- (1) evaluation.--the comptroller general shall conduct an evaluation of the nurse loan repayment programs administered by the health resources and services administration. such evaluation shall include-- (a) the manner in which payments are made under such programs; (b) the existing oversight functions necessary to ensure the proper use of such programs, including payments made as part of such programs; (c) the identification of gaps, if any, in oversight functions; and (d) information on the number of nurses assigned to facilities pursuant to such programs, including the type of facility to which nurses are assigned and the impact of modifying the eligibility requirements for programs under section 846 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 297n), such as the impact on entities to which nurses had previously been assigned prior to fiscal year 2019 (such as federally qualified health centers and facilities affiliated with the indian health service). (2) report.--not later than 18 months after the enactment of this act, the comptroller general shall submit to the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate and the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives, a report on the evaluation under paragraph (1), which may include recommendations to improve relevant nursing workforce loan repayment programs. subtitle b--education provisions sec. 3501. short title. this subtitle may be cited as the ``covid-19 pandemic education relief act of 2020''. sec. 3502. definitions. (a) definitions.--in this subtitle: (1) coronavirus.--the term ``coronavirus'' has the meaning given the term in section 506 of the coronavirus preparedness and response supplemental appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-123). (2) foreign institution.--the term ``foreign institution'' means an institution of higher education located outside the united states that is described in paragraphs (1)(c) and (2) of section 102(a) of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1002(a)). (3) institution of higher education.--the term ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning of the term under section 102 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1002). (4) qualifying emergency.--the term ``qualifying emergency'' means-- (a) a public health emergency related to the coronavirus declared by the secretary of health and human services pursuant to section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d); (b) an event related to the coronavirus for which the president declared a major disaster or an emergency under section 401 or 501, respectively, of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5170 and 5191); or (c) a national emergency related to the coronavirus declared by the president under section 201 of the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.). (5) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of education. sec. 3503. campus-based aid waivers. (a) waiver of non-federal share requirement.-- notwithstanding sections 413c(a)(2) and 443(b)(5) of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1070b-2(a)(2) and 1087-53(b)(5)), with respect to funds made available for award years 2019-2020 and 2020-2021, the secretary shall waive the requirement that a participating institution of higher education provide a non-federal share to match federal funds provided to the institution for the programs authorized pursuant to subpart 3 of part a and part c of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1070b et seq. and 1087-51 et seq.) for all awards made under such programs during such award years, except nothing in this subsection shall affect the non-federal share requirement under section 443(c)(3) that applies to private for-profit organizations. (b) authority to reallocate.--notwithstanding sections 413d, 442, and 488 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1070b-3, 1087-52, and 1095), during a period of a qualifying emergency, an institution may transfer up to 100 percent of the institution's unexpended allotment under section 442 of such act to the institution's allotment under section 413d of such act, but may not transfer any funds from the institution's unexpended allotment under section 413d of such act to the institution's allotment under section 442 of such act. [[page h1762]] sec. 3504. use of supplemental educational opportunity grants for emergency aid. (a) in general.--notwithstanding section 413b of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1070b-1), an institution of higher education may reserve any amount of an institution's allocation under subpart 3 of part a of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1070b et seq.) for a fiscal year to award, in such fiscal year, emergency financial aid grants to assist undergraduate or graduate students for unexpected expenses and unmet financial need as the result of a qualifying emergency. (b) determinations.--in determining eligibility for and awarding emergency financial aid grants under this section, an institution of higher education may-- (1) waive the amount of need calculation under section 471 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1087kk); (2) allow for a student affected by a qualifying emergency to receive funds in an amount that is not more than the maximum federal pell grant for the applicable award year; and (3) utilize a contract with a scholarship-granting organization designated for the sole purpose of accepting applications from or disbursing funds to students enrolled in the institution of higher education, if such scholarship- granting organization disburses the full allocated amount provided to the institution of higher education to the recipients. (c) special rule.--any emergency financial aid grants to students under this section shall not be treated as other financial assistance for the purposes of section 471 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1087kk). sec. 3505. federal work-study during a qualifying emergency. (a) in general.--in the event of a qualifying emergency, an institution of higher education participating in the program under part c of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1087-51 et seq.) may make payments under such part to affected work-study students, for the period of time (not to exceed one academic year) in which affected students were unable to fulfill the students' work-study obligation for all or part of such academic year due to such qualifying emergency, as follows: (1) payments may be made under such part to affected work- study students in an amount equal to or less than the amount of wages such students would have been paid under such part had the students been able to complete the work obligation necessary to receive work study funds, as a one time grant or as multiple payments. (2) payments shall not be made to any student who was not eligible for work study or was not completing the work obligation necessary to receive work study funds under such part prior to the occurrence of the qualifying emergency. (3) any payments made to affected work-study students under this subsection shall meet the matching requirements of section 443 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1087-53), unless such matching requirements are waived by the secretary. (b) definition of affected work-study student.--in this section, the term ``affected work-study student'' means a student enrolled at an eligible institution participating in the program under part c of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1087-51 et seq.) who-- (1) received a work-study award under section 443 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1087-53) for the academic year during which a qualifying emergency occurred; (2) earned federal work-study wages from such eligible institution for such academic year; and (3) was prevented from fulfilling the student's work-study obligation for all or part of such academic year due to such qualifying emergency. sec. 3506. adjustment of subsidized loan usage limits. notwithstanding section 455(q)(3) of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1087e(q)(3)), the secretary shall exclude from a student's period of enrollment for purposes of loans made under part d of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1087a et seq.) any semester (or the equivalent) that the student does not complete due to a qualifying emergency, if the secretary is able to administer such policy in a manner that limits complexity and the burden on the student. sec. 3507. exclusion from federal pell grant duration limit. the secretary shall exclude from a student's federal pell grant duration limit under section 401(c)(5) of the higher education act of 1965 (2 u.s.c. 1070a(c)(5)) any semester (or the equivalent) that the student does not complete due to a qualifying emergency if the secretary is able to administer such policy in a manner that limits complexity and the burden on the student. sec. 3508. institutional refunds and federal student loan flexibility. (a) institutional waiver.-- (1) in general.--the secretary shall waive the institutional requirement under section 484b of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1091b) with respect to the amount of grant or loan assistance (other than assistance received under part c of title iv of such act) to be returned under such section if a recipient of assistance under title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1070 et seq.) withdraws from the institution of higher education during the payment period or period of enrollment as a result of a qualifying emergency. (2) waivers.--the secretary shall require each institution using a waiver relating to the withdrawal of recipients under this subsection to report the number of such recipients, the amount of grant or loan assistance (other than assistance received under part c of title iv of such act) associated with each such recipient, and the total amount of grant or loan assistance (other than assistance received under part c of title iv of such act) for which each institution has not returned assistance under title iv to the secretary. (b) student waiver.--the secretary shall waive the amounts that students are required to return under section 484b of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1091b) with respect to federal pell grants or other grant assistance if the withdrawals on which the returns are based, are withdrawals by students who withdrew from the institution of higher education as a result of a qualifying emergency. (c) canceling loan obligation.--notwithstanding any other provision of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1001 et seq.), the secretary shall cancel the borrower's obligation to repay the entire portion of a loan made under part d of title iv of such act (20 u.s.c. 1087a et seq.) associated with a payment period for a recipient of such loan who withdraws from the institution of higher education during the payment period as a result of a qualifying emergency. (d) approved leave of absence.--notwithstanding any other provision of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1001 et seq.), for purposes of receiving assistance under title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1070 et seq.), an institution of higher education may, as a result of a qualifying emergency, provide a student with an approved leave of absence that does not require the student to return at the same point in the academic program that the student began the leave of absence if the student returns within the same semester (or the equivalent). sec. 3509. satisfactory academic progress. notwithstanding section 484 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1091), in determining whether a student is maintaining satisfactory academic progress for purposes of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1070 et seq.), an institution of higher education may, as a result of a qualifying emergency, exclude from the quantitative component of the calculation any attempted credits that were not completed by such student without requiring an appeal by such student. sec. 3510. continuing education at affected foreign institutions. (a) in general.--notwithstanding section 481(b) of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1088(b)), with respect to a foreign institution, in the case of a public health emergency, major disaster or emergency, or national emergency declared by the applicable government authorities in the country in which the foreign institution is located, the secretary may permit any part of an otherwise eligible program to be offered via distance education for the duration of such emergency or disaster and the following payment period for purposes of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1070 et seq.). (b) eligibility.--an otherwise eligible program that is offered in whole or in part through distance education by a foreign institution between march 1, 2020, and the date of enactment of this act shall be deemed eligible for the purposes of part d of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1087a et seq.) for the duration of the qualifying emergency and the following payment period for purposes of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1070 et seq.). an institution of higher education that uses the authority provided in the previous sentence shall report such use to the secretary-- (1) for the 2019-2020 award year, not later than june 30, 2020; and (2) for an award year subsequent to the 2019-2020 award year, not later than 30 days after such use. (c) report.--not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this act, and every 180 days thereafter for the duration of the qualifying emergency and the following payment period, the secretary shall submit to the authorizing committees (as defined in section 103 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1003)) a report that identifies each foreign institution that carried out a distance education program authorized under this section. (d) written arrangements.-- (1) in general.--notwithstanding section 102 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1002), for the duration of a qualifying emergency and the following payment period, the secretary may allow a foreign institution to enter into a written arrangement with an institution of higher education located in the united states that participates in the federal direct loan program under part d of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1087a et seq.) for the purpose of allowing a student of the foreign institution who is a borrower of a loan made under such part to take courses from the institution of higher education located in the united states. (2) form of arrangements.-- (a) public or other nonprofit institutions.--a foreign institution that is a public or other nonprofit institution may enter into a written arrangement under subsection (a) only with an institution of higher education described in section 101 of such act (20 u.s.c. 1001). (b) other institutions.--a foreign institution that is a graduate medical school, nursing school, or a veterinary school and that is not a public or other nonprofit institution may enter into a written arrangement under subsection (a) with an institution of higher education described in section 101 or section 102 of such act (20 u.s.c. 1001 and 1002). (3) report on use.--an institution of higher education that uses the authority described in paragraph (2) shall report such use to the secretary-- [[page h1763]] (a) for the 2019-2020 award year, not later than june 30, 2020; and (b) for an award year subsequent to the 2019-2020 award year, not later than 30 days after such use. (4) report from the secretary.--not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this act, and every 180 days thereafter for the duration of the qualifying emergency and the following payment period, the secretary shall submit to the authorizing committees (as defined in section 103 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1003)) a report that identifies each foreign institution that entered into a written arrangement authorized under subsection (a). sec. 3511. national emergency educational waivers. (a) in general.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary may, upon the request of a state educational agency or indian tribe, waive any statutory or regulatory provision described under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b), and upon the request of a local educational agency, waive any statutory or regulatory provision described under paragraph (2) of subsection (b), if the secretary determines that such a waiver is necessary and appropriate due to the emergency involving federal primary responsibility determined to exist by the president under the section 501(b) of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5191(b)) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). (b) applicable provisions of law.-- (1) streamlined waivers.--the secretary shall create an expedited application process to request a waiver and the secretary may waive any statutory or regulatory requirements for a state educational agency (related to assessments, accountability, and reporting requirements related to assessments and accountability), if the secretary determines that such a waiver is necessary and appropriate as described in subsection (a), under the following provisions of law: (a) the following provisions under section 1111 of the elementary and secondary education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 6311): (i) paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (b). (ii) subsection (c)(4). (iii) subparagraphs (c) and (d) of subsection (d)(2). (iv) the following provisions under subsection (h) of such section 1111: (i) clauses (i), (ii), (iii)(i), (iv), (v), (vi), (vii), and (xi) of paragraph (1)(c). (ii) paragraph (2)(c) with respect to the waived requirements under subclause (i). (iii) clauses (i) and (ii) of paragraph (2)(c). (b) section 421(b) of the general education provisions act (20 u.s.c. 1225(b)). (2) state and locally-requested waivers.--for a state educational agency, local educational agency, or indian tribe that receives funds under a program authorized under the elementary and secondary education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 6301 et seq.) that requests a waiver under subsection (c), the secretary may waive statutory and regulatory requirements under any of the following provisions of such act: (a) section 1114(a)(1). (b) section 1118(a) and section 8521. (c) section 1127. (d) section 4106(d). (e) subparagraphs (c), (d), and (e) of section 4106(e)(2). (f) section 4109(b). (g) the definition under section 8101(42) for purposes of the elementary and secondary education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 6301 et seq.). (3) applicability to charter schools.--any waivers issued by the secretary under this section shall be implemented, as applicable-- (a) for all public schools, including public charter schools within the boundaries of the recipient of the waiver; (b) in accordance with state charter school law; and (c) pursuant to section 1111(c)(5) of the elementary and secondary education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 6311(c)(5)). (4) limitation.--nothing in this section shall be construed to allow the secretary to waive any statutory or regulatory requirements under applicable civil rights laws. (5) accountability and improvement.--any school located in a state that receives a waiver under paragraph (1) and that is identified for comprehensive support and improvement, targeted support and improvement, or additional targeted support in the 2019-2020 school year under section 1111(c)(4)(d) or section 1111(d)(2) of the elementary and secondary education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 6311(c)(4)(d) or (d)(2)) shall maintain that identification status in the 2020-2021 school year and continue to receive supports and interventions consistent with the school's support and improvement plan in the 2020-2021 school year. (c) state and local requests for waivers.-- (1) in general.--a state educational agency, local educational agency, or indian tribe that desires a waiver from any statutory or regulatory provision described under subsection (b)(2), may submit a waiver request to the secretary in accordance with this subsection. (2) requests submitted.--a request for a waiver under this subsection shall-- (a) identify the federal programs affected by the requested waiver; (b) describe which federal statutory or regulatory requirements are to be waived; (c) describe how the emergency involving federal primary responsibility determined to exist by the president under the section 501(b) of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5191(b)) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) prevents or otherwise restricts the ability of the state, state educational agency, local educational agency, indian tribe, or school to comply with such statutory or regulatory requirements; and (d) provide an assurance that the state educational agency, local educational agency, or indian tribe will work to mitigate any negative effects, if any, that may occur as a result of the requested waiver. (3) secretary approval.-- (a) in general.--except as provided under subparagraph (b), the secretary shall approve or disapprove a waiver request submitted under paragraph (1) not more than 30 days after the date on which such request is submitted. (b) exceptions.--the secretary may disapprove a waiver request submitted under paragraph (1), only if the secretary determines that-- (i) the waiver request does not meet the requirements of this section; (ii) the waiver is not permitted pursuant to subsection (b)(2); or (iii) the description required under paragraph (2)(c) provides insufficient information to demonstrate that the waiving of such requirements is necessary or appropriate consistent with subsection (a). (4) duration.--a waiver approved by the secretary under this section may be for a period not to exceed the 2019-2020 academic year, except to carry out full implementation of any maintenance of effort waivers granted during the 2019-2020 academic year. (d) reporting and publication.-- (1) public notice.--a state educational agency, indian tribe, or local educational agency requesting a waiver under subsection (b)(2) shall provide the public and all local educational agencies in the state with notice of, and the opportunity to comment on, the request by posting information regarding the waiver request and the process for commenting on the state website. (2) notifying congress.--not later than 7 days after granting a waiver under this section, the secretary shall notify the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate, the committee on appropriations of the senate, the committee on education and labor of the house of representatives, and the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives of such waiver. (3) publication.--not later than 30 days after granting a waiver under this section, the secretary shall publish a notice of the secretary's decision (including which waiver was granted and the reason for granting the waiver) in the federal register and on the website of the department of education. (4) report.--not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary shall prepare and submit a report to the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions and the committee on appropriations of the senate, and the committee on education and labor and the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives, with recommendations on any additional waivers under the individuals with disabilities education act (20 u.s.c. 1401 et seq.), the rehabilitation act of 1973 (29 u.s.c. 701 et seq.), the elementary and secondary education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 6301 et seq.), and the carl d. perkins career and technical education act of 2006 (20 u.s.c. 2301 et seq.) the secretary believes are necessary to be enacted into law to provide limited flexibility to states and local educational agencies to meet the needs of students during the emergency involving federal primary responsibility determined to exist by the president under section 501(b) of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5191(b)) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). (e) terms.--in this section, the term ``state educational agency'' includes the bureau of indian education, and the term ``local educational agency'' includes bureau of indian education funded schools operated pursuant to a grant under the tribally controlled schools act of 1988 (25 u.s.c. 2501 et seq.), or a contract under the indian self-determination and education assistance act (25 u.s.c. 5301 et seq.). sec. 3512. hbcu capital financing. (a) deferment period.-- (1) in general.--notwithstanding any provision of title iii of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1051 et seq.), or any regulation promulgated under such title, the secretary may grant a deferment, for the duration of a qualifying emergency, to an institution that has received a loan under part d of title iii of such act (20 u.s.c. 1066 et seq.). (2) terms.--during the deferment period granted under this subsection-- (a) the institution shall not be required to pay any periodic installment of principal or interest required under the loan agreement for such loan; and (b) the secretary shall make principal and interest payments otherwise due under the loan agreement. (3) closing.--at the closing of a loan deferred under this subsection, terms shall be set under which the institution shall be required to repay the secretary for the payments of principal and interest made by the secretary during the deferment, on a schedule that begins upon repayment to the lender in full on the loan agreement, except in no case shall repayment be required to begin before the date that is 1 full fiscal year after the date that is the end of the qualifying emergency. (b) termination date.-- (1) in general.--the authority provided under this section to grant a loan deferment under subsection (a) shall terminate on the date on which the qualifying emergency is no longer in effect. (2) duration.--any provision of a loan agreement or insurance agreement modified by the authority under this section shall remain so [[page h1764]] modified for the duration of the period covered by the loan agreement or insurance agreement. (c) report.--not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this act, and every 180 days thereafter during the period beginning on the first day of the qualifying emergency and ending on september 30 of the fiscal year following the end of the qualifying emergency, the secretary shall submit to the authorizing committees (as defined in section 103 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1003)) a report that identifies each institution that received assistance under this section. (d) funding.--there is hereby appropriated, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, $62,000,000 to carry out this section. sec. 3513. temporary relief for federal student loan borrowers. (a) in general.--the secretary shall suspend all payments due for loans made under part d and part b (that are held by the department of education) of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1087a et seq.; 1071 et seq.) through september 30, 2020. (b) no accrual of interest.--notwithstanding any other provision of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1001 et seq.), interest shall not accrue on a loan described under subsection (a) for which payment was suspended for the period of the suspension. (c) consideration of payments.--notwithstanding any other provision of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1001 et seq.), the secretary shall deem each month for which a loan payment was suspended under this section as if the borrower of the loan had made a payment for the purpose of any loan forgiveness program or loan rehabilitation program authorized under part d or b of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1087a et seq.; 1071 et seq.) for which the borrower would have otherwise qualified. (d) reporting to consumer reporting agencies.--during the period in which the secretary suspends payments on a loan under subsection (a), the secretary shall ensure that, for the purpose of reporting information about the loan to a consumer reporting agency, any payment that has been suspended is treated as if it were a regularly scheduled payment made by a borrower. (e) suspending involuntary collection.--during the period in which the secretary suspends payments on a loan under subsection (a), the secretary shall suspend all involuntary collection related to the loan, including-- (1) a wage garnishment authorized under section 488a of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1095a) or section 3720d of title 31, united states code; (2) a reduction of tax refund by amount of debt authorized under section 3720a of title 31, united states code, or section 6402(d) of the internal revenue code of 1986; (3) a reduction of any other federal benefit payment by administrative offset authorized under section 3716 of title 31, united states code (including a benefit payment due to an individual under the social security act or any other provision described in subsection (c)(3)(a)(i) of such section); and (4) any other involuntary collection activity by the secretary. (f) waivers.--in carrying out this section, the secretary may waive the application of-- (1) subchapter i of chapter 35 of title 44, united states code (commonly known as the ``paperwork reduction act''); (2) the master calendar requirements under section 482 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1089); (3) negotiated rulemaking under section 492 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1098a); and (4) the requirement to publish the notices related to the system of records of the agency before implementation required under paragraphs (4) and (11) of section 552a(e) of title 5, united states code (commonly known as the ``privacy act of 1974''), except that the notices shall be published not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this act. (g) notice to borrowers and transition period.--to inform borrowers of the actions taken in accordance with this section and ensure an effective transition, the secretary shall-- (1) not later than 15 days after the date of enactment of this act, notify borrowers-- (a) of the actions taken in accordance with subsections (a) and (b) for whom payments have been suspended and interest waived; (b) of the actions taken in accordance with subsection (e) for whom collections have been suspended; (c) of the option to continue making payments toward principal; and (d) that the program under this section is a temporary program. (2) beginning on august 1, 2020, carry out a program to provide not less than 6 notices by postal mail, telephone, or electronic communication to borrowers indicating-- (a) when the borrower's normal payment obligations will resume; and (b) that the borrower has the option to enroll in income- driven repayment, including a brief description of such options. sec. 3514. provisions related to the corporation for national and community service. (a) accrual of service hours.-- (1) accrual through other service hours.-- (a) in general.--notwithstanding any other provision of the domestic volunteer service act of 1973 (42 u.s.c. 4950 et seq.) or the national and community service act of 1990 (42 u.s.c. 12501 et seq.), the corporation for national and community service shall allow an individual described in subparagraph (b) to accrue other service hours that will count toward the number of hours needed for the individual's education award. (b) affected individuals.--subparagraph (a) shall apply to any individual serving in a position eligible for an educational award under subtitle d of title i of the national and community service act of 1990 (42 u.s.c. 12601 et seq.)-- (i) who is performing limited service due to covid-19; or (ii) whose position has been suspended or placed on hold due to covid-19. (2) provisions in case of early exit.--in any case where an individual serving in a position eligible for an educational award under subtitle d of title i of the national and community service act of 1990 (42 u.s.c. 12601 et seq.) was required to exit the position early at the direction of the corporation for national and community service, the chief executive officer of the corporation for national and community service may-- (a) deem such individual as having met the requirements of the position; and (b) award the individual the full value of the educational award under such subtitle for which the individual would otherwise have been eligible. (b) availability of funds.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, all funds made available to the corporation for national and community service under any act, including the amounts appropriated to the corporation under the headings ``operating expenses'', ``salaries and expenses'', and ``office of the inspector general'' under the heading ``corporation for national and community service'' under title iv of division a of the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-94), shall remain available for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2021. (c) no required return of grant funds.--notwithstanding section 129(l)(3)(a)(i) of the national and community service act of 1990 (42 u.s.c. 12581(l)(3)(a)(i)), the chief executive officer of the corporation for national and community service may permit fixed-amount grant recipients under such section 129(l) to maintain a pro rata amount of grant funds, at the discretion of the corporation for national and community service, for participants who exited, were suspended, or are serving in a limited capacity due to covid-19, to enable the grant recipients to maintain operations and to accept participants. (d) extension of terms and age limits.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the corporation for national and community service may extend the term of service (for a period not to exceed the 1-year period immediately following the end of the national emergency) or waive any upper age limit (except in no case shall the maximum age exceed 26 years of age) for national service programs carried out by the national civilian community corps under subtitle e of title i of the national and community service act of 1990 (42 u.s.c. 12611 et seq.), and the participants in such programs, for the purposes of-- (1) addressing disruptions due to covid-19; and (2) minimizing the difficulty in returning to full operation due to covid-19 on such programs and participants. sec. 3515. workforce response activities. (a) administrative costs.--notwithstanding section 128(b)(4) of the workforce innovation opportunity act (29 u.s.c. 3163(b)(4)), of the total amount allocated to a local area (including the total amount allotted to a single state local area) under subtitle b of title i of such act (29 u.s.c. 3151 et seq.) for program year 2019, not more than 20 percent of the total amount may be used for the administrative costs of carrying out local workforce investment activities under chapter 2 or chapter 3 of subtitle b of title i of such act, if the portion of the total amount that exceeds 10 percent of the total amount is used to respond to a qualifying emergency. (b) rapid response activities.-- (1) statewide rapid response.--of the funds reserved by a governor for program year 2019 for statewide activities under section 128(a) of the workforce innovation and opportunity act (29 u.s.c. 3163(a)) that remain unobligated, such funds may be used for statewide rapid response activities as described in section 134(a)(2)(a) of such act (29 u.s.c. 3174(a)(2)(a)) for responding to a qualifying emergency. (2) local boards.--of the funds reserved by a governor for program year 2019 under section 133(a)(2) of such act (29 u.s.c. 3173(a)(2)) that remain unobligated, such funds may be released within 30 days after the date of enactment of this act to the local boards most impacted by the coronavirus at the determination of the governor for rapid response activities related to responding to a qualifying emergency. (c) definitions.--except as otherwise provided, the terms in this section have the meanings given the terms in section 3 of the workforce innovation and opportunity act (29 u.s.c. 3102). sec. 3516. technical amendments. (a) in general.-- (1) section 6103(a)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended by the future act (public law 116-91), is further amended by striking ``(13), (16)'' and inserting ``(13)(a), (13)(b), (13)(c), (13)(d)(i), (16)''. (2) section 6103(p)(3)(a) of such code, as so amended, is further amended by striking ``(12),'' and inserting ``(12), (13)(a), (13)(b), (13)(c), (13)(d)(i)''. (3) section 6103(p)(4) of such code, as so amended, is further amended by striking ``(13) or (16)'' each place it appears and inserting ``(13), or (16)''. (4) section 6103(p)(4) of such code, as so amended and as amended by paragraph (3), is [[page h1765]] further amended by striking ``(13)'' each place it appears and inserting ``(13)(a), (13)(b), (13)(c), (13)(d)(i)''. (5) section 6103(l)(13)(c)(ii) of such code, as added by the future act (public law 116-91), is amended by striking ``section 236a(e)(4)'' and inserting ``section 263a(e)(4)''. (b) effective date.--the amendments made by this section shall apply as if included in the enactment of the future act (public law 116-91). sec. 3517. waiver authority and reporting requirement for institutional aid. (a) waiver authority.--notwithstanding any other provision of the higher education act of 1965 (u.s.c. 1001 et seq.), unless enacted with specific reference to this section, for any institution of higher education that was receiving assistance under title iii, title v, or subpart 4 of part a of title vii of such act (20 u.s.c. 1051 et seq.; 1101 et seq.; 1136a et seq.) at the time of a qualifying emergency, the secretary may, for the period beginning on the first day of the qualifying emergency and ending on september 30 of the fiscal year following the end of the qualifying emergency-- (1) waive-- (a) the eligibility data requirements set forth in section 391(d) and 521(e) of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1068(d); 1103(e)); (b) the wait-out period set forth in section 313(d) of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1059(d)); (c) the allotment requirements under paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection 318(e) of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1059e(e)), and the reference to ``the academic year preceding the beginning of that fiscal year'' under such section 318(e)(1); (d) the allotment requirements under subsections (b), (c), and (g) of section 324 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1063), the reference to ``the end of the school year preceding the beginning of that fiscal year'' under such section 324(a), and the reference to ``the academic year preceding such fiscal year'' under such section 324(h); (e) subparagraphs (a), (c), (d), and (e) of section 326(f)(3) of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1063b(f)(3)), and references to ``previous year'' under such section 326(f)(3)(b); (f) subparagraphs (a), (c), (d), and (e) of section 723(f)(3) and subparagraphs (a), (c), (d), and (e) of section 724(f)(3) of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1136a(f)(3); 1136b(f)(3)), and references to ``previous academic year'' under subparagraph (b) of such sections 723(f)(3) and 724(f)(3); and (g) the allotment restriction set forth in section 318(d)(4) and section 323(c)(2) of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1059e(d)(4); 1062(c)(2)); and (2) waive or modify any statutory or regulatory provision to ensure that institutions that were receiving assistance under title iii, title v, or subpart 4 of part a of title vii of such act (20 u.s.c. 1051 et seq.; 1101 et seq.; 1136a et seq.) at the time of a qualifying emergency are not adversely affected by any formula calculation for fiscal year 2020 and for the period beginning on the first day of the qualifying emergency and ending on september 30 of the fiscal year following the end of the qualifying emergency, as necessary. (b) use of unexpended funds.--any funds paid to an institution under title iii, title v, or subpart 4 of part a of title vii of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1051 et seq.; 1101 et seq.; 1136a et seq.) and not expended or used for the purposes for which the funds were paid to the institution during the 5-year period following the date on which the funds were first paid to the institution, may be carried over and expended during the succeeding 5-year period. (c) report.--not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this act, and every 180 days thereafter for the period beginning on the first day of the qualifying emergency and ending on september 30 of the fiscal year following the end of the qualifying emergency, the secretary shall submit to the authorizing committees (as defined in section 103 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1003)) a report that identifies each institution that received a waiver or modification under this section. sec. 3518. authorized uses and other modifications for grants. (a) in general.--the secretary is authorized to modify the required and allowable uses of funds for grants awarded under part a or b of title iii, chapter i or ii of subpart 2 of part a of title iv, title v, or subpart 4 of part a of title vii of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1057 et seq.; 1060 et seq.; 1070a-11 et seq.; 1070a-21 et seq.; 1101 et seq.; 1136a et seq.) to an institution of higher education or other grant recipient (not including individual recipients of federal student financial assistance), at the request of an institution of higher education or other recipient of a grant (not including individual recipients of federal student financial assistance) as a result of a qualifying emergency, for the period beginning on the first day of the qualifying emergency and ending on september 30 of the fiscal year following the end of the qualifying emergency. (b) matching requirement modifications.--notwithstanding any other provision of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1001 et seq.), the secretary is authorized to modify any federal share or other financial matching requirement for a grant awarded on a competitive basis or a grant awarded under part a or b of title iii or subpart 4 of part a of title vii of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1057 et seq.; 1060 et seq.; 1136a et seq.) at the request of an institution of higher education or other grant recipient as a result of a qualifying emergency, for the period beginning on the first day of the qualifying emergency and ending on september 30 of the fiscal year following the end of the qualifying emergency. (c) reports.--not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this act, and every 180 days thereafter for the duration of the period beginning on the first day of the qualifying emergency and ending on september 30 of the fiscal year following the end of the qualifying emergency, the secretary shall submit to the authorizing committees (as defined in section 103 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1003)) a report that identifies each institution of higher education or other grant recipient that received a modification under this section. sec. 3519. service obligations for teachers. (a) teach grants.--for the purpose of section 420n of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1070g-2), during a qualifying emergency, the secretary-- (1) may modify the categories of extenuating circumstances under which a recipient of a grant under subpart 9 of part a of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1070g et seq.) who is unable to fulfill all or part of the recipient's service obligation may be excused from fulfilling that portion of the service obligation; and (2) shall consider teaching service that, as a result of a qualifying emergency, is part-time or temporarily interrupted, to be full-time service and to fulfill the service obligations under such section 420n. (b) teacher loan forgiveness.--notwithstanding section 428j or 460 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1078- 10; 1087j), the secretary shall waive the requirements under such sections that years of teaching service shall be consecutive if-- (1) the teaching service of a borrower is temporarily interrupted due to a qualifying emergency; and (2) after the temporary interruption due to a qualifying emergency, the borrower resumes teaching service and completes a total of 5 years of qualifying teaching service under such sections, including qualifying teaching service performed before, during, and after such qualifying emergency. subtitle c--labor provisions sec. 3601. limitation on paid leave. section 110(b)(2)(b) of the family and medical leave act of 1993 (as added by the emergency family and medical leave expansion act) is amended by striking clause (ii) and inserting the following: ``(ii) limitation.--an employer shall not be required to pay more than $200 per day and $10,000 in the aggregate for each employee for paid leave under this section.''. sec. 3602. emergency paid sick leave act limitation. section 5102 of the emergency paid sick leave act (division e of the families first coronavirus response act) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(f) limitations.--an employer shall not be required to pay more than either-- ``(1) $511 per day and $5,110 in the aggregate for each employee, when the employee is taking leave for a reason described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 5102(a); or ``(2) $200 per day and $2,000 in the aggregate for each employee, when the employee is taking leave for a reason described in paragraph (4), (5), or (6) of section 5102(a).''. sec. 3603. unemployment insurance. section 903(h)(2)(b) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1103(h)(2)(b)), as added by section 4102 of the emergency unemployment insurance stabilization and access act of 2020, is amended to read as follows: ``(b) the state ensures that applications for unemployment compensation, and assistance with the application process, are accessible, to the extent practicable in at least two of the following: in person, by phone, or online.''. sec. 3604. omb waiver of paid family and paid sick leave. (a) family and medical leave act of 1993.--section 110(a) of title i of the family and medical leave act of 1993 (29 u.s.c. 2611 et seq.) (as added by division c of the families first coronavirus response act) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: ``(4) the director of the office of management and budget shall have the authority to exclude for good cause from the requirements under subsection (b) certain employers of the united states government with respect to certain categories of executive branch employees.''. (b) emergency paid sick leave act.--the emergency paid sick leave act (division e of the families first coronavirus response act) is amended by adding at the end the following new section: ``sec. 5112. authority to exclude certain employees. ``the director of the office of management and budget shall have the authority to exclude for good cause from the definition of employee under section 5110(1) certain employees described in subparagraphs (e) and (f) of such section, including by exempting certain united states government employers covered by section 5110(2)(a)(i)(v) from the requirements of this title with respect to certain categories of executive branch employees.''. sec. 3605. paid leave for rehired employees. section 110(a)(1)(a) of the family and medical leave act of 1993, as added by section 3102 of the emergency family and medical leave expansion act, is amended to read as follows: ``(a) eligible employee.-- ``(i) in general.--in lieu of the definition in sections 101(2)(a) and 101(2)(b)(ii), the term `eligible employee' means an employee who has been employed for at least 30 calendar days by the employer with respect to whom leave is requested under section 102(a)(1)(f). [[page h1766]] ``(ii) rule regarding rehired employees.--for purposes of clause (i), the term `employed for at least 30 calendar days', used with respect to an employee and an employer described in clause (i), includes an employee who was laid off by that employer not earlier than march 1, 2020, had worked for the employer for not less than 30 of the last 60 calendar days prior to the employee's layoff, and was rehired by the employer.''. sec. 3606. advance refunding of credits. (a) payroll credit for required paid sick leave.--section 7001 of division g of the families first coronavirus response act is amended-- (1) in subsection (b)(4)(a)-- (a) by striking ``(a) in general.--if the amount'' and inserting ``(a)(i) credit is refundable.--if the amount''; and (b) by adding at the end the following: ``(ii) advancing credit.--in anticipation of the credit, including the refundable portion under clause (i), the credit may be advanced, according to forms and instructions provided by the secretary, up to an amount calculated under subsection (a), subject to the limits under subsection (b), both calculated through the end of the most recent payroll period in the quarter.''; (2) in subsection (f)-- (a) in paragraph (4), by striking ``, and'' and inserting a comma; (b) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and inserting ``, and''; and (c) by adding at the end the following: ``(6) regulations or other guidance to permit the advancement of the credit determined under subsection (a).''; and (3) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new subsection: ``(i) treatment of deposits.--the secretary of the treasury (or the secretary's delegate) shall waive any penalty under section 6656 of the internal revenue code of 1986 for any failure to make a deposit of the tax imposed by section 3111(a) or 3221(a) of such code if the secretary determines that such failure was due to the anticipation of the credit allowed under this section.''. (b) payroll credit for required paid family leave.--section 7003 of division g of the families first coronavirus response act is amended-- (1) in subsection (b)(3)-- (a) by striking ``if the amount'' and inserting ``(a) credit is refundable.--if the amount''; and (b) by adding at the end the following: ``(b) advancing credit.--in anticipation of the credit, including the refundable portion under subparagraph (a), the credit may be advanced, according to forms and instructions provided by the secretary, up to an amount calculated under subsection (a), subject to the limits under subsection (b), both calculated through the end of the most recent payroll period in the quarter.''; (2) in subsection (f)-- (a) in paragraph (4), by striking ``, and'' and inserting a comma; (b) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and inserting ``, and''; and (c) by adding at the end the following: ``(6) regulations or other guidance to permit the advancement of the credit determined under subsection (a).''; and (c) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new subsection: ``(i) treatment of deposits.--the secretary of the treasury (or the secretary's delegate) shall waive any penalty under section 6656 of the internal revenue code of 1986 for any failure to make a deposit of the tax imposed by section 3111(a) or 3221(a) of such code if the secretary determines that such failure was due to the anticipation of the credit allowed under this section.''. sec. 3607. expansion of dol authority to postpone certain deadlines. section 518 of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (29 u.s.c. 1148) is amended by striking ``or a terroristic or military action (as defined in section 692(c)(2) of such code), the secretary may'' and inserting ``a terroristic or military action (as defined in section 692(c)(2) of such code), or a public health emergency declared by the secretary of health and human services pursuant to section 319 of the public health service act, the secretary may''. sec. 3608. single-employer plan funding rules. (a) delay in payment of minimum required contributions.--in the case of any minimum required contribution (as determined under section 430(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986 and section 303(a) of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (29 u.s.c. 1083(a))) which (but for this section) would otherwise be due under section 430(j) of such code (including quarterly contributions under paragraph (3) thereof) and section 303(j) of such act (29 u.s.c. 1083(j)) (including quarterly contributions under paragraph (3) thereof) during calendar year 2020-- (1) the due date for such contributions shall be january 1, 2021, and (2) the amount of each such minimum required contribution shall be increased by interest accruing for the period between the original due date (without regard to this section) for the contribution and the payment date, at the effective rate of interest for the plan for the plan year which includes such payment date. (b) benefit restriction status.--for purposes of section 436 of the internal revenue code of 1986 and section 206(g) of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (29 u.s.c. 1056(g)), a plan sponsor may elect to treat the plan's adjusted funding target attainment percentage for the last plan year ending before january 1, 2020, as the adjusted funding target attainment percentage for plan years which include calendar year 2020. sec. 3609. application of cooperative and small employer charity pension plan rules to certain charitable employers whose primary exempt purpose is providing services with respect to mothers and children. (a) employee retirement income security act of 1974.-- section 210(f)(1) of the employee retirement income security act of 1974 (29 u.s.c. 1060(f)(1)) is amended-- (1) by striking ``or'' at the end of subparagraph (b); (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (c)(iv) and inserting ``; or''; and (3) by inserting after subparagraph (c) the following new subparagraph: ``(d) that, as of january 1, 2000, was maintained by an employer-- ``(i) described in section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, ``(ii) who has been in existence since at least 1938, ``(iii) who conducts medical research directly or indirectly through grant making, and ``(iv) whose primary exempt purpose is to provide services with respect to mothers and children.''. (b) internal revenue code of 1986.--section 414(y)(1) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended-- (1) by striking ``or'' at the end of subparagraph (b); (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (c)(iv) and inserting ``; or''; and (3) by inserting after subparagraph (c) the following new subparagraph: ``(d) that, as of january 1, 2000, was maintained by an employer-- ``(i) described in section 501(c)(3), ``(ii) who has been in existence since at least 1938, ``(iii) who conducts medical research directly or indirectly through grant making, and ``(iv) whose primary exempt purpose is to provide services with respect to mothers and children.''. (c) effective date.--the amendments made by this section shall apply to plan years beginning after december 31, 2018. sec. 3610. federal contractor authority. notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject to the availability of appropriations, funds made available to an agency by this act or any other act may be used by such agency to modify the terms and conditions of a contract, or other agreement, without consideration, to reimburse at the minimum applicable contract billing rates not to exceed an average of 40 hours per week any paid leave, including sick leave, a contractor provides to keep its employees or subcontractors in a ready state, including to protect the life and safety of government and contractor personnel, but in no event beyond september 30, 2020. such authority shall apply only to a contractor whose employees or subcontractors cannot perform work on a site that has been approved by the federal government, including a federally-owned or leased facility or site, due to facility closures or other restrictions, and who cannot telework because their job duties cannot be performed remotely during the public health emergency declared on january 31, 2020 for covid-19: provided, that the maximum reimbursement authorized by this section shall be reduced by the amount of credit a contractor is allowed pursuant to division g of public law 116-127 and any applicable credits a contractor is allowed under this act. sec. 3611. technical corrections. (1) section 110(a)(3) of the family and medical leave act of 1993 (as added by the emergency and medical leave expansion act) is amended by striking ``553(d)(a)'' and inserting ``553(d)(3)''. (2) section 5111 of the emergency paid sick leave act (division e of the families first coronavirus response act) is amended by striking ``553(d)(a)'' and inserting ``553(d)(3)''. (3) section 110(c) of the family and medical leave act of 1993 (as added by the emergency and medical leave expansion act) is amended by striking ``subsection (a)(2)(a)(iii)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(2)(a)''. (4) section 3104 of the emergency family and medical leave expansion act (division c of the families first coronavirus response act) is amended-- (a) by striking ``110(a)(b)'' and inserting ``section 110(a)(1)(b) of the family and medical leave act of 1993''; and (b) by striking ``section 107(a) for a violation of section 102(a)(1)(f) if the employer does not meet the definition of employer set forth in section 101(4)(a)(i)'' and inserting ``section 107(a) of such act for a violation of section 102(a)(1)(f) of such act if the employer does not meet the definition of employer set forth in section 101(4)(a)(i) of such act''. (5) section 5110(1) of the emergency paid sick leave act (division e of the families first coronavirus response act) is amended-- (a) in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by striking ``terms'' and inserting ``term''; and (b) in subparagraph (a)(i), by striking ``paragraph (5)(a)'' and inserting ``paragraph (2)(a)''. (6) section 5110(2)(b)(ii) of the emergency paid sick leave act (division e of the families first coronavirus response act) is amended by striking ``clause (i)(iv)'' and inserting ``clause (i)(iii)''. (7) section 110(a)(3) of the family and medical leave act of 1993 (as added by the emergency and medical leave expansion act) is amended-- (a) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon at the end of subparagraph (a); (b) by striking the period at end of subparagraph (b) and inserting ``; and''; and (c) by adding at the end the following: ``(c) as necessary to carry out the purposes of this act, including to ensure consistency between this act and division e and division g of the families first coronavirus response act.''. [[page h1767]] (8) section 5104(1) of the emergency paid sick leave act (division e of the families first coronavirus response act) is amended by striking ``and'' after the semicolon and inserting ``or''. (9) section 5105 of the emergency paid sick leave act (division e of the families first coronavirus response act) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(c) investigations and collection of data.--the secretary of labor or his designee may investigate and gather data to ensure compliance with this act in the same manner as authorized by sections 9 and 11 of the fair labor standards act of 1938 (29 u.s.c. 209; 211).''. subtitle d--finance committee sec. 3701. exemption for telehealth services. (a) in general.--paragraph (2) of section 223(c) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: ``(e) safe harbor for absence of deductible for telehealth.--in the case of plan years beginning on or before december 31, 2021, a plan shall not fail to be treated as a high deductible health plan by reason of failing to have a deductible for telehealth and other remote care services.''. (b) certain coverage disregarded.--clause (ii) of section 223(c)(1)(b) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended by striking ``or long-term care'' and inserting ``long-term care, or (in the case of plan years beginning on or before december 31, 2021) telehealth and other remote care''. (c) effective date.--the amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this act. sec. 3702. inclusion of certain over-the-counter medical products as qualified medical expenses. (a) hsas.--section 223(d)(2) of the internal revenue code of 1986 is amended-- (1) by striking the last sentence of subparagraph (a) and inserting the following: ``for purposes of this subparagraph, amounts paid for menstrual care products shall be treated as paid for medical care.''; and (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: ``(d) menstrual care product.--for purposes of this paragraph, the term `menstrual care product' means a tampon, pad, liner, cup, sponge, or similar product used by individuals with respect to menstruation or other genital- tract secretions.''. (b) archer msas.--section 220(d)(2)(a) of such code is amended by striking the last sentence and inserting the following: ``for purposes of this subparagraph, amounts paid for menstrual care products (as defined in section 223(d)(2)(d)) shall be treated as paid for medical care.''. (c) health flexible spending arrangements and health reimbursement arrangements.--section 106 of such code is amended by striking subsection (f) and inserting the following new subsection: ``(f) reimbursements for menstrual care products.--for purposes of this section and section 105, expenses incurred for menstrual care products (as defined in section 223(d)(2)(d)) shall be treated as incurred for medical care.''. (d) effective dates.-- (1) distributions from savings accounts.--the amendment made by subsections (a) and (b) shall apply to amounts paid after december 31, 2019. (2) reimbursements.--the amendment made by subsection (c) shall apply to expenses incurred after december 31, 2019. sec. 3703. increasing medicare telehealth flexibilities during emergency period. section 1135 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1320b-5) is amended-- (1) in subsection (b)(8), by striking ``to an individual by a qualified provider (as defined in subsection (g)(3))'' and all that follows through the period and inserting ``, the requirements of section 1834(m).''; and (2) in subsection (g), by striking paragraph (3). sec. 3704. enhancing medicare telehealth services for federally qualified health centers and rural health clinics during emergency period. section 1834(m) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395m(m)) is amended-- (1) in the first sentence of paragraph (1), by striking ``the secretary'' and inserting ``subject to paragraph (8), the secretary''; (2) in paragraph (2)(a), by striking ``the secretary'' and inserting ``subject to paragraph (8), the secretary''; (3) in paragraph (4)-- (a) in subparagraph (a), by striking ``the term'' and inserting ``subject to paragraph (8), the term''; and (b) in subparagraph (f)(i), by striking ``the term'' and inserting ``subject to paragraph (8), the term''; and (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph: ``(8) enhancing telehealth services for federally qualified health centers and rural health clinics during emergency period.-- ``(a) in general.--during the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(b)-- ``(i) the secretary shall pay for telehealth services that are furnished via a telecommunications system by a federally qualified health center or a rural health clinic to an eligible telehealth individual enrolled under this part notwithstanding that the federally qualified health center or rural clinic providing the telehealth service is not at the same location as the beneficiary; ``(ii) the amount of payment to a federally qualified health center or rural health clinic that serves as a distant site for such a telehealth service shall be determined under subparagraph (b); and ``(iii) for purposes of this subsection-- ``(i) the term `distant site' includes a federally qualified health center or rural health clinic that furnishes a telehealth service to an eligible telehealth individual; and ``(ii) the term `telehealth services' includes a rural health clinic service or federally qualified health center service that is furnished using telehealth to the extent that payment codes corresponding to services identified by the secretary under clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (4)(f) are listed on the corresponding claim for such rural health clinic service or federally qualified health center service. ``(b) special payment rule.-- ``(i) in general.--the secretary shall develop and implement payment methods that apply under this subsection to a federally qualified health center or rural health clinic that serves as a distant site that furnishes a telehealth service to an eligible telehealth individual during such emergency period. such payment methods shall be based on payment rates that are similar to the national average payment rates for comparable telehealth services under the physician fee schedule under section 1848. notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary may implement such payment methods through program instruction or otherwise. ``(ii) exclusion from fqhc pps calculation and rhc air calculation.--costs associated with telehealth services shall not be used to determine the amount of payment for federally qualified health center services under the prospective payment system under section 1834(o) or for rural health clinic services under the methodology for all-inclusive rates (established by the secretary) under section 1833(a)(3).''. sec. 3705. temporary waiver of requirement for face-to-face visits between home dialysis patients and physicians. section 1881(b)(3)(b) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395rr(b)(3)(b)) is amended-- (1) in clause (i), by striking ``clause (ii)'' and inserting ``clauses (ii) and (iii)''; (2) in clause (ii), in the matter preceding subclause (i), by striking ``clause (i)'' and inserting ``except as provided in clause (iii), clause (i)''; and (3) by adding at the end the following new clause: ``(iii) the secretary may waive the provisions of clause (ii) during the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(b).''. sec. 3706. use of telehealth to conduct face-to-face encounter prior to recertification of eligibility for hospice care during emergency period. section 1814(a)(7)(d)(i) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395f(a)(7(d)(i)) is amended-- (1) by striking ``a hospice'' and inserting ``(i) subject to subclause (ii), a hospice''; and (2) by inserting after subclause (i), as added by paragraph (1), the following new subclause: ``(ii) during the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(b), a hospice physician or nurse practitioner may conduct a face-to-face encounter required under this clause via telehealth, as determined appropriate by the secretary; and''. sec. 3707. encouraging use of telecommunications systems for home health services furnished during emergency period. with respect to home health services (as defined in section 1861(m) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395x(m)) that are furnished during the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(b) of such act (42 u.s.c. 1320b- 5(g)(1)(b)), the secretary of health and human services shall consider ways to encourage the use of telecommunications systems, including for remote patient monitoring as described in section 409.46(e) of title 42, code of federal regulations (or any successor regulations) and other communications or monitoring services, consistent with the plan of care for the individual, including by clarifying guidance and conducting outreach, as appropriate. sec. 3708. improving care planning for medicare home health services. (a) part a provisions.--section 1814(a) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395f(a)) is amended-- (1) in paragraph (2)-- (a) in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by inserting ``, a nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist (as such terms are defined in section 1861(aa)(5)) who is working in accordance with state law, or a physician assistant (as defined in section 1861(aa)(5)) who is working in accordance with state law, who is'' after ``in the case of services described in subparagraph (c), a physician''; and (b) in subparagraph (c)-- (i) by inserting ``, a nurse practitioner, a clinical nurse specialist, or a physician assistant (as the case may be)'' after ``physician'' the first 2 times it appears; and (ii) by striking ``, and, in the case of a certification made by a physician'' and all that follows through ``face-to- face encounter'' and inserting ``, and, in the case of a certification made by a physician after january 1, 2010, or by a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant (as the case may be) after a date specified by the secretary (but in no case later than the date that is 6 months after the date of the enactment of the cares act), prior to making such certification a physician, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant must document that a physician, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, certified nurse-midwife (as defined in section [[page h1768]] 1861(gg)) as authorized by state law, or physician assistant has had a face-to-face encounter''; (2) in the third sentence-- (a) by striking ``physician certification'' and inserting ``certification''; (b) by inserting ``(or in the case of regulations to implement the amendments made by section 3708 of the cares act, the secretary shall prescribe regulations, which shall become effective no later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of such act)'' after ``1981''; and (c) by striking ``a physician who'' and inserting ``a physician, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant who''; (3) in the fourth sentence, by inserting ``, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant'' after ``physician''; and (4) in the fifth sentence-- (a) by inserting ``or no later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of the cares act for purposes of documentation for certification and recertification made under paragraph (2) by a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant,'' after ``january 1, 2019''; and (b) by inserting ``, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant'' after ``of the physician''. (b) part b provisions.--section 1835(a) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395n(a)) is amended-- (1) in paragraph (2)-- (a) in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by inserting ``, a nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist (as those terms are defined in section 1861(aa)(5)) who is working in accordance with state law, or a physician assistant (as defined in section 1861(aa)(5)) who is working in accordance with state law, who is'' after ``in the case of services described in subparagraph (a), a physician''; and (b) in subparagraph (a)-- (i) in each of clauses (ii) and (iii) of subparagraph (a) by inserting ``, a nurse practitioner, a clinical nurse specialist, or a physician assistant (as the case may be)'' after ``physician''; and (ii) in clause (iv), by striking ``after january 1, 2010'' and all that follows through ``face-to-face encounter'' and inserting ``made by a physician after january 1, 2010, or by a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant (as the case may be) after a date specified by the secretary (but in no case later than the date that is 6 months after the date of the enactment of the cares act), prior to making such certification a physician, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant must document that a physician, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, certified nurse-midwife (as defined in section 1861(gg)) as authorized by state law, or physician assistant has had a face-to-face encounter''; (2) in the third sentence, by inserting ``, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant (as the case may be)'' after physician; (3) in the fourth sentence-- (a) by striking ``physician certification'' and inserting ``certification''; (b) by inserting ``(or in the case of regulations to implement the amendments made by section 3708 of the cares act the secretary shall prescribe regulations which shall become effective no later than 6 months after the enactment of such act)'' after ``1981''; and (c) by striking ``a physician who'' and inserting ``a physician, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant who''; (4) in the fifth sentence, by inserting ``, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant'' after ``physician''; and (5) in the sixth sentence-- (a) by inserting ``or no later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of the cares act for purposes of documentation for certification and recertification made under paragraph (2) by a nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant,'' after ``january 1, 2019''; and (b) by inserting ``, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, or physician assistant'' after ``of the physician''. (c) definition provisions.-- (1) home health services.--section 1861(m) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395x(m)) is amended-- (a) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)-- (i) by inserting ``, a nurse practitioner or a clinical nurse specialist (as those terms are defined in subsection (aa)(5)), or a physician assistant (as defined in subsection (aa)(5))'' after ``physician'' the first place it appears; and (ii) by inserting ``, a nurse practitioner, a clinical nurse specialist, or a physician assistant'' after ``physician'' the second place it appears; and (b) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``, a nurse practitioner, a clinical nurse specialist, or a physician assistant'' after ``physician''. (2) home health agency.--section 1861(o)(2) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395x(o)(2)) is amended-- (a) by inserting ``, nurse practitioners or clinical nurse specialists (as those terms are defined in subsection (aa)(5)), certified nurse-midwives (as defined in subsection (gg)), or physician assistants (as defined in subsection (aa)(5))'' after ``physicians''; and (b) by inserting ``, nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, certified nurse-midwife, physician assistant,'' after ``physician''. (3) covered osteoporosis drug.--section 1861(kk)(1) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395x(kk)(1)) is amended by inserting ``, nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist (as those terms are defined in subsection (aa)(5)), certified nurse-midwife (as defined in subsection (gg)), or physician assistant (as defined in subsection (aa)(5))'' after ``attending physician''. (d) home health prospective payment system provisions.-- section 1895 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395fff) is amended-- (1) in subsection (c)(1)-- (a) by striking ``(provided under section 1842(r))''; and (b) by inserting ``the nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist (as those terms are defined in section 1861(aa)(5)), or the physician assistant (as defined in section 1861(aa)(5))'' after ``physician''; and (2) in subsection (e)-- (a) in paragraph (1)(a), by inserting ``a nurse practitioner or clinical nurse specialist, or a physician assistant'' after ``physician''; and (b) in paragraph (2)-- (i) in the heading, by striking ``physician certification'' and inserting ``rule of construction regarding requirement for certification''; and (ii) by striking ``physician''. (e) application to medicaid.--the amendments made under this section shall apply under title xix of the social security act in the same manner and to the same extent as such requirements apply under title xviii of such act or regulations promulgated thereunder. (f) effective date.--the secretary of health and human services shall prescribe regulations to apply the amendments made by this section to items and services furnished, which shall become effective no later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this legislation. the secretary shall promulgate an interim final rule if necessary, to comply with the required effective date. sec. 3709. adjustment of sequestration. (a) temporary suspension of medicare sequestration.--during the period beginning on may 1, 2020 and ending on december 31, 2020, the medicare programs under title xviii of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395 et seq.) shall be exempt from reduction under any sequestration order issued before, on, or after the date of enactment of this act. (b) extension of direct spending reductions through fiscal year 2030.--section 251a(6) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985 (2 u.s.c. 901a(6)) is amended-- (1) in subparagraph (b), in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``through 2029'' and inserting ``through 2030''; and (2) in subparagraph (c), in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``fiscal year 2029'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2030''. sec. 3710. medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system add-on payment for covid-19 patients during emergency period. (a) in general.--section 1886(d)(4)(c) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395ww(d)(4)(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following new clause: ``(iv)(i) for discharges occurring during the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(b), in the case of a discharge of an individual diagnosed with covid-19, the secretary shall increase the weighting factor that would otherwise apply to the diagnosis-related group to which the discharge is assigned by 20 percent. the secretary shall identify a discharge of such an individual through the use of diagnosis codes, condition codes, or other such means as may be necessary. ``(ii) any adjustment under subclause (i) shall not be taken into account in applying budget neutrality under clause (iii) ``(iii) in the case of a state for which the secretary has waived all or part of this section under the authority of section 1115a, nothing in this section shall preclude such state from implementing an adjustment similar to the adjustment under subclause (i).''. (b) implementation.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary may implement the amendment made by subsection (a) by program instruction or otherwise. sec. 3711. increasing access to post-acute care during emergency period. (a) waiver of irf 3-hour rule.--with respect to inpatient rehabilitation services furnished by a rehabilitation facility described in section 1886(j)(1) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395ww(j)(1)) during the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(b) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1320b-5(g)(1)(b)), the secretary of health and human services shall waive section 412.622(a)(3)(ii) of title 42, code of federal regulations (or any successor regulations), relating to the requirement that patients of an inpatient rehabilitation facility receive at least 15 hours of therapy per week. (b) waiver of site-neutral payment rate provisions for long-term care hospitals.--with respect to inpatient hospital services furnished by a long-term care hospital described in section 1886(d)(1)(b)(iv) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395ww(d)(1)(b)(iv)) during the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(b) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1320b-5(g)(1)(b)), the secretary of health and human services shall waive the following provisions of section 1886(m)(6) of such act (42 u.s.c. 1395ww(m)(6)): (1) ltch 50-percent rule.--subparagraph (c)(ii) of such section, relating to the payment adjustment for long-term care hospitals that do not have a discharge payment percentage for the period that is at least 50 percent. (2) site-neutral ipps payment rate.--subparagraph (a)(i) of such section, relating to the application of the site-neutral payment rate (and payment shall be made to a long-term care hospital without regard to such section) for a discharge if the admission occurs during such emergency period and is in response to the public health emergency described in such section 1135(g)(1)(b). [[page h1769]] sec. 3712. revising payment rates for durable medical equipment under the medicare program through duration of emergency period. (a) rural and noncontiguous areas.--the secretary of health and human services shall implement section 414.210(g)(9)(iii) of title 42, code of federal regulations (or any successor regulation), to apply the transition rule described in such section to all applicable items and services furnished in rural areas and noncontiguous areas (as such terms are defined for purposes of such section) as planned through december 31, 2020, and through the duration of the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(b) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1320b-5(g)(1)(b)), if longer. (b) areas other than rural and noncontiguous areas.--with respect to items and services furnished on or after the date that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of health and human services shall apply section 414.210(g)(9)(iv) of title 42, code of federal regulations (or any successor regulation), as if the reference to ``dates of service from june 1, 2018 through december 31, 2020, based on the fee schedule amount for the area is equal to 100 percent of the adjusted payment amount established under this section'' were instead a reference to ``dates of service from march 6, 2020, through the remainder of the duration of the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(b) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1320b- 5(g)(1)(b)), based on the fee schedule amount for the area is equal to 75 percent of the adjusted payment amount established under this section and 25 percent of the unadjusted fee schedule amount''. sec. 3713. coverage of the covid-19 vaccine under part b of the medicare program without any cost-sharing. (a) medical and other health services.--section 1861(s)(10)(a) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395x(s)(10)(a)) is amended by inserting ``, and covid-19 vaccine and its administration'' after ``influenza vaccine and its administration''. (b) part b deductible.--the first sentence of section 1833(b) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395l(b)) is amended-- (1) in paragraph (10), by striking ``and'' at the end; and (2) in paragraph (11), by striking the period at the end and inserting ``, and (12) such deductible shall not apply with respect a covid-19 vaccine and its administration described in section 1861(s)(10)(a).''. (c) medicare advantage.--section 1852(a)(1)(b) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395w-22(a)(1)(b)) is amended-- (1) in clause (iv)-- (a) by redesignating subclause (vi) as subclause (vii); and (b) by inserting after subclause (v) the following new subclause: ``(vi) a covid-19 vaccine and its administration described in section 1861(s)(10)(a).''; and (2) in clause (v), by striking ``subclauses (iv) and (v)'' inserting ``subclauses (iv), (v), and (vi)''. (d) effective date.--the amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of enactment of this act and shall apply with respect to a covid-19 vaccine beginning on the date that such vaccine is licensed under section 351 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 262). (e) implementation.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary may implement the provisions of, and the amendments made by, this section by program instruction or otherwise. sec. 3714. requiring medicare prescription drug plans and ma- pd plans to allow during the covid-19 emergency period for fills and refills of covered part d drugs for up to a 3-month supply. (a) in general.--section 1860d-4(b) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395w-104(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: ``(4) ensuring access during covid-19 public health emergency period.-- ``(a) in general.--during the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(b), subject to subparagraph (b), a prescription drug plan or ma-pd plan shall, notwithstanding any cost and utilization management, medication therapy management, or other such programs under this part, permit a part d eligible individual enrolled in such plan to obtain in a single fill or refill, at the option of such individual, the total day supply (not to exceed a 90-day supply) prescribed for such individual for a covered part d drug. ``(b) safety edit exception.--a prescription drug plan or ma-pd plan may not permit a part d eligible individual to obtain a single fill or refill inconsistent with an applicable safety edit.''. (b) implementation.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of health and human services may implement the amendment made by this section by program instruction or otherwise. sec. 3715. providing home and community-based services in acute care hospitals. section 1902(h) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1396a(h)) is amended-- (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(h)''; (2) by inserting ``, home and community-based services provided under subsection (c), (d), or (i) of section 1915 or under a waiver or demonstration project under section 1115, self-directed personal assistance services provided pursuant to a written plan of care under section 1915(j), and home and community-based attendant services and supports under section 1915(k)'' before the period; and (3) by adding at the end the following: ``(2) nothing in this title, title xviii, or title xi shall be construed as prohibiting receipt of any care or services specified in paragraph (1) in an acute care hospital that are-- ``(a) identified in an individual's person-centered service plan (or comparable plan of care); ``(b) provided to meet needs of the individual that are not met through the provision of hospital services; ``(c) not a substitute for services that the hospital is obligated to provide through its conditions of participation or under federal or state law, or under another applicable requirement; and ``(d) designed to ensure smooth transitions between acute care settings and home and community-based settings, and to preserve the individual's functional abilities.''. sec. 3716. clarification regarding uninsured individuals. subsection (ss) of section 1902 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1396a), as added by section 6004(a)(3)(c) of the families first coronavirus response act, is amended-- (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``(excluding subclause (viii) of such subsection if the individual is a resident of a state which does not furnish medical assistance to individuals described in such subclause)'' before the semicolon; and (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, except that individuals who are eligible for medical assistance under subsection (a)(10)(a)(ii)(xii), subsection (a)(10)(a)(ii)(xviii), subsection (a)(10)(a)(ii)(xxi), or subsection (a)(10)(c) (but only to the extent such an individual is considered to not have minimum essential coverage under section 5000a(f)(1) of the internal revenue code of 1986), or who are described in subsection (l)(1)(a) and are eligible for medical assistance only because of subsection (a)(10)(a)(i)(iv) or (a)(10)(a)(ii)(ix) and whose eligibility for such assistance is limited by the state under clause (vii) in the matter following subsection (a)(10)(g), shall not be treated as enrolled in a federal health care program for purposes of this paragraph'' before the period at the end. sec. 3717. clarification regarding coverage of covid-19 testing products. subparagraph (b) of section 1905(a)(3) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1396d(a)(3)), as added by section 6004(a)(1)(c) of the families first coronavirus response act (public law 116-127), is amended by striking ``that are approved, cleared, or authorized under section 510(k), 513, 515 or 564 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act''. sec. 3718. amendments relating to reporting requirements with respect to clinical diagnostic laboratory tests. (a) revised reporting period for reporting of private sector payment rates for establishment of medicare payment rates.--section 1834a(a)(1)(b) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395m-1(a)(1)(b)) is amended-- (1) in clause (i), by striking ``december 31, 2020'' and inserting ``december 31, 2021''; and (2) in clause (ii)-- (a) by striking ``january 1, 2021'' and inserting ``january 1, 2022''; and (b) by striking ``march 31, 2021'' and inserting ``march 31, 2022''. (b) revised phase-in of reductions from private payor rate implementation.--section 1834a(b)(3) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395m-1(b)(3)) is amended-- (1) in subparagraph (a), by striking ``through 2023'' and inserting ``through 2024''; and (2) in subparagraph (b)-- (a) in clause (i), by striking ``and'' at the end; (b) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii); (c) by inserting after clause (i) the following new clause: ``(ii) for 2021, 0 percent; and''; and (d) in clause (iii), as redesignated by subparagraph (b), by striking ``2021 through 2023'' and inserting ``2022 through 2024''. sec. 3719. expansion of the medicare hospital accelerated payment program during the covid-19 public health emergency. section 1815 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395g) is amended-- (1) in subsection (e)(3), by striking ``in the case'' and inserting ``subject to subsection (f), in the case''; and (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection: ``(f)(1) during the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(b), the secretary shall expand the program under subsection (e)(3) pursuant to paragraph (2). ``(2) in expanding the program under subsection (e)(3), the following shall apply: ``(a)(i) in addition to the hospitals described in subsection (e)(3), the following hospitals shall be eligible to participate in the program: ``(i) hospitals described in clause (iii) of section 1886(d)(1)(b). ``(ii) hospitals described in clause (v) of such section. ``(iii) critical access hospitals (as defined in section 1861(mm)(1)). ``(ii) subject to appropriate safeguards against fraud, waste, and abuse, upon a request of a hospital described in clause (i), the secretary shall provide accelerated payments under the program to such hospital. ``(b) upon the request of the hospital, the secretary may do any of the following: ``(i) make accelerated payments on a periodic or lump sum basis. [[page h1770]] ``(ii) increase the amount of payment that would otherwise be made to hospitals under the program up to 100 percent (or, in the case of critical access hospitals, up to 125 percent). ``(iii) extend the period that accelerated payments cover so that it covers up to a 6-month period. ``(c) upon the request of the hospital, the secretary shall do the following: ``(i) provide up to 120 days before claims are offset to recoup the accelerated payment. ``(ii) allow not less than 12 months from the date of the first accelerated payment before requiring that the outstanding balance be paid in full. ``(3) nothing in this subsection shall preclude the secretary from carrying out the provisions described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of paragraph (2)(b) and clauses (i) and (ii) of paragraph (2)(c) under the program under subsection (e)(3) after the period for which this subsection applies. ``(4) notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary may implement the provisions of this subsection by program instruction or otherwise.''. sec. 3720. delaying requirements for enhanced fmap to enable state legislation necessary for compliance. section 6008 of the families first coronavirus response act is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: ``(d) delay in application of premium requirement.--during the 30 day period beginning on the date of enactment of this act, a state shall not be ineligible for the increase to the federal medical assistance percentage of the state described in subsection (a) on the basis that the state imposes a premium that violates the requirement of subsection (b)(2) if such premium was in effect on the date of enactment of this act.''. subtitle e--health and human services extenders part i--medicare provisions sec. 3801. extension of the work geographic index floor under the medicare program. section 1848(e)(1)(e) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395w-4(e)(1)(e)) is amended by striking ``may 23, 2020'' and inserting ``december 1, 2020''. sec. 3802. extension of funding for quality measure endorsement, input, and selection. (a) in general.--section 1890(d)(2) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1395aaa(d)(2)) is amended-- (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``and $4,830,000 for the period beginning on october 1, 2019, and ending on may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``$20,000,000 for fiscal year 2020, and for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020, the amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for such period for fiscal year 2020''; and (2) in the third sentence, by striking ``and 2019 and for the period beginning on october 1, 2019, and ending on may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``, 2019, and 2020, and for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020,''. (b) effective date.--the amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-94). sec. 3803. extension of funding outreach and assistance for low-income programs. (a) funding extensions.-- (1) additional funding for state health insurance programs.--subsection (a)(1)(b) of section 119 of the medicare improvements for patients and providers act of 2008 (42 u.s.c. 1395b-3 note), as amended by section 3306 of the patient protection and affordable care act (public law 111- 148), section 610 of the american taxpayer relief act of 2012 (public law 112-240), section 1110 of the pathway for sgr reform act of 2013 (public law 113-67), section 110 of the protecting access to medicare act of 2014 (public law 113- 93), section 208 of the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015 (public law 114-10), section 50207 of division e of the bipartisan budget act of 2018 (public law 115-123), section 1402 of division b of the continuing appropriations act, 2020, and health extenders act of 2019 (public law 116-59), section 1402 of division b of the further continuing appropriations act, 2020, and further health extenders act of 2019 (public law 116-69), and section 103 of division n of the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-94) is amended by striking clauses (x) through (xii) and inserting the following new clauses: ``(x) for fiscal year 2020, of $13,000,000; and ``(xi) for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020, the amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for such period for fiscal year 2020.''. (2) additional funding for area agencies on aging.-- subsection (b)(1)(b) of such section 119, as so amended, is amended by striking clauses (x) through (xii) and inserting the following new clauses: ``(x) for fiscal year 2020, of $7,500,000; and ``(xi) for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020, the amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for such period for fiscal year 2020.''. (3) additional funding for aging and disability resource centers.--subsection (c)(1)(b) of such section 119, as so amended, is amended by striking clauses (x) through (xii) and inserting the following new clauses: ``(x) for fiscal year 2020, of $5,000,000; and ``(xi) for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020, the amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for such period for fiscal year 2020.''. (4) additional funding for contract with the national center for benefits and outreach enrollment.--subsection (d)(2) of such section 119, as so amended, is amended by striking clauses (x) through (xii) and inserting the following new clauses: ``(x) for fiscal year 2020, of $12,000,000; and ``(xi) for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020, the amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for such period for fiscal year 2020.''. (b) effective date.--the amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect as if included in the enactment of the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-94). part ii--medicaid provisions sec. 3811. extension of the money follows the person rebalancing demonstration program. section 6071(h) of the deficit reduction act of 2005 (42 u.s.c. 1396a note) is amended-- (1) in paragraph (1), by striking subparagraph (g) and inserting the following: ``(g) subject to paragraph (3), $337,500,000 for the period beginning on january 1, 2020, and ending on september 30, 2020; and ``(h) subject to paragraph (3), for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020, the amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for such period for fiscal year 2020.''; and (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and (g)'' and inserting ``, (g), and (h)''. sec. 3812. extension of spousal impoverishment protections. (a) in general.--section 2404 of public law 111-148 (42 u.s.c. 1396r-5 note) is amended by striking ``may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``november 30, 2020''. (b) rule of construction.--nothing in section 2404 of public law 111-148 (42 u.s.c. 1396r-5 note) or section 1902(a)(17) or 1924 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1396a(a)(17), 1396r-5) shall be construed as prohibiting a state from-- (1) applying an income or resource disregard under a methodology authorized under section 1902(r)(2) of such act (42 u.s.c. 1396a(r)(2))-- (a) to the income or resources of an individual described in section 1902(a)(10)(a)(ii)(vi) of such act (42 u.s.c. 1396a(a)(10)(a)(ii)(vi)) (including a disregard of the income or resources of such individual's spouse); or (b) on the basis of an individual's need for home and community-based services authorized under subsection (c), (d), (i), or (k) of section 1915 of such act (42 u.s.c. 1396n) or under section 1115 of such act (42 u.s.c. 1315); or (2) disregarding an individual's spousal income and assets under a plan amendment to provide medical assistance for home and community-based services for individuals by reason of being determined eligible under section 1902(a)(10)(c) of such act (42 u.s.c. 1396a(a)(10)(c)) or by reason of section 1902(f) of such act (42 u.s.c. 1396a(f)) or otherwise on the basis of a reduction of income based on costs incurred for medical or other remedial care under which the state disregarded the income and assets of the individual's spouse in determining the initial and ongoing financial eligibility of an individual for such services in place of the spousal impoverishment provisions applied under section 1924 of such act (42 u.s.c. 1396r-5). sec. 3813. delay of dsh reductions. section 1923(f)(7)(a) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1396r-4(f)(7)(a)) is amended-- (1) in clause (i), in the matter preceding subclause (i), by striking ``may 23, 2020, and ending september 30, 2020, and for each of fiscal years 2021'' and inserting ``december 1, 2020, and ending september 30, 2021, and for each of fiscal years 2022''; and (2) in clause (ii)-- (a) in subclause (i), by striking ``may 23, 2020, and ending september 30, 2020'' and inserting ``december 1, 2020, and ending september 30, 2021''; and (b) in subclause (ii), by striking ``2021'' and inserting ``2022''. sec. 3814. extension and expansion of community mental health services demonstration program. (a) in general.--section 223(d) of the protecting access to medicare act of 2014 (42 u.s.c. 1396a note) is amended-- (1) in paragraph (3)-- (a) by striking ``not more than'' and inserting ``subject to paragraph (8), not more than''; and (b) by striking ``may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``november 30, 2020''; and (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph: ``(8) additional programs.-- ``(a) in general.--not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this paragraph, in addition to the 8 states selected under paragraph (1), the secretary shall select 2 states to participate in 2-year demonstration programs that meet the requirements of this subsection. ``(b) selection of states.-- ``(i) in general.--subject to clause (ii), in selecting states under this paragraph, the secretary-- ``(i) shall select states that-- ``(aa) were awarded planning grants under subsection (c); and ``(bb) applied to participate in the demonstration programs under this subsection under paragraph (1) but, as of the date of enactment of this paragraph, were not selected to participate under paragraph (1); and ``(ii) shall use the results of the secretary's evaluation of each state's application under paragraph (1) to determine which states to select, and shall not require the submission of any additional application. [[page h1771]] ``(c) requirements for selected states.--prior to services being delivered under the demonstration authority in a state selected under this paragraph, the state shall-- ``(i) submit a plan to monitor certified community behavioral health clinics under the demonstration program to ensure compliance with certified community behavioral health criteria during the demonstration period; and ``(ii) commit to collecting data, notifying the secretary of any planned changes that would deviate from the prospective payment system methodology outlined in the state's demonstration application, and obtaining approval from the secretary for any such change before implementing the change.''. (b) limitation.--section 223(d)(5) of the protecting access to medicare act of 2014 (42 u.s.c. 1396a note) is amended-- (1) in subparagraph (b), in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``the federal matching'' and inserting ``subject to subparagraph (c)(iii), the federal matching''; and (2) in subparagraph (c), by adding at the end the following new clause: ``(iii) payments for amounts expended after 2019.--the federal matching percentage applicable under subparagraph (b) to amounts expended by a state participating in the demonstration program under this subsection shall-- ``(i) in the case of a state participating in the demonstration program as of january 1, 2020, apply to amounts expended by the state during the 8 fiscal quarter period (or any portion of such period) that begins on january 1, 2020; and ``(ii) in the case of a state selected to participate in the demonstration program under paragraph (8), during first 8 fiscal quarter period (or any portion of such period) that the state participates in a demonstration program.''. (c) gao study and report on the community and mental health services demonstration program.-- (1) in general.--not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this act, the comptroller general of the united states shall submit to the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives and the committee on finance of the senate a report on the community and mental health services demonstration program conducted under section 223 of the protecting access to medicare act of 2014 (42 u.s.c. 1396a note) (referred to in this subsection as the ``demonstration program''). (2) content of report.--the report required under paragraph (1) shall include the following information: (a) information on states' experiences participating in the demonstration program, including the extent to which states-- (i) measure the effects of access to certified community behavioral health clinics on patient health and cost of care, including-- (i) engagement in treatment for behavioral health conditions; (ii) relevant clinical outcomes, to the extent collected; (iii) screening and treatment for comorbid medical conditions; and (iv) use of crisis stabilization, emergency department, and inpatient care. (b) information on federal efforts to evaluate the demonstration program, including-- (i) quality measures used to evaluate the program; (ii) assistance provided to states on data collection and reporting; (iii) assessments of the reliability and usefulness of state-submitted data; and (iv) the extent to which such efforts provide information on the relative quality, scope, and cost of services as compared with services not provided under the demonstration program, and in comparison to medicaid beneficiaries with mental illness and substance use disorders not served under the demonstration program. (c) recommendations for improvements to the following: (i) the reporting, accuracy, and validation of encounter data. (ii) accuracy in payments to certified community behavioral health clinics under state plans or waivers under title xix of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1396 et seq.). part iii--human services and other health programs sec. 3821. extension of sexual risk avoidance education program. section 510 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 710) is amended-- (1) in subsection (a)-- (a) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (a)-- (i) by striking ``and 2019 and for the period beginning october 1, 2019, and ending may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``through 2020 and for the period beginning october 1, 2020, and ending november 30, 2020''; and (ii) by striking ``fiscal year 2020'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2021'' (b) in paragraph (2)(a)-- (i) by striking ``and 2019 and for the period beginning october 1, 2019, and ending may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``through 2020 and for the period beginning october 1, 2020, and ending november 30, 2020''; and (ii) by striking ``fiscal year 2020'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2021''; and (2) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``and 2019 and $48,287,671 for the period beginning october 1, 2019, and ending may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``through 2020, and for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020, the amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for such period for fiscal year 2020''. sec. 3822. extension of personal responsibility education program. section 513 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 713) is amended-- (1) in subsection (a)-- (a) in paragraph (1)-- (i) in subparagraph (a), in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``2019 and for the period beginning october 1, 2019, and ending may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``2020 and for the period beginning october 1, 2020, and ending november 30, 2020''; and (ii) in subparagraph (b)(i), by striking by striking ``october 1, 2019, and ending may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``october 1, 2020, and ending november 30, 2020''; (2) in paragraph (4)(a), by striking ``2019'' each place it appears and inserting ``2020''; and (3) in subsection (f), by striking ``2019 and $48,287,671 for the period beginning october 1, 2019, and ending may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``2020, and for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020, the amount equal to the pro rata portion of the amount appropriated for such period for fiscal year 2020''. sec. 3823. extension of demonstration projects to address health professions workforce needs. activities authorized by section 2008 of the social security act shall continue through november 30, 2020, in the manner authorized for fiscal year 2019, and out of any money in the treasury of the united states not otherwise appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such sums as may be necessary for such purpose. grants and payments may be made pursuant to this authority through the date so specified at the pro rata portion of the total amount authorized for such activities in fiscal year 2019. sec. 3824. extension of the temporary assistance for needy families program and related programs. activities authorized by part a of title iv and section 1108(b) of the social security act shall continue through november 30, 2020, in the manner authorized for fiscal year 2019, and out of any money in the treasury of the united states not otherwise appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such sums as may be necessary for such purpose. part iv--public health provisions sec. 3831. extension for community health centers, the national health service corps, and teaching health centers that operate gme programs. (a) community health centers.--section 10503(b)(1)(f) of the patient protection and affordable care act (42 u.s.c. 254b-2(b)(1)(f)) is amended by striking ``and $2,575,342,466 for the period beginning on october 1, 2019, and ending on may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``$4,000,000,000 for fiscal year 2020, and $668,493,151 for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020''. (b) national health service corps.--section 10503(b)(2) of the patient protection and affordable care act (42 u.s.c. 254b-2(b)(2)) is amended-- (1) in subparagraph (f), by striking ``and'' at the end; and (2) by striking subparagraph (g) and inserting the following: ``(g) $310,000,000 for fiscal year 2020; and ``(h) $51,808,219 for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020.''. (c) teaching health centers that operate graduate medical education programs.--section 340h(g)(1) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 256h(g)(1)) is amended by striking ``and 2019, and $81,445,205 for the period beginning on october 1, 2019, and ending on may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``through fiscal year 2020, and $21,141,096 for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020''. (d) application of provisions.--amounts appropriated pursuant to the amendments made by this section for fiscal year 2020 and for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020, shall be subject to the requirements contained in public law 116-94 for funds for programs authorized under sections 330 through 340 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 254 through 256). (e) conforming amendment.--paragraph (4) of section 3014(h) of title 18, united states code, as amended by section 401(e) of division n of public law 116-94, is amended by striking ``section 401(d) of division n of the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020'' and inserting ``section 3831 of the cares act''. sec. 3832. diabetes programs. (a) type i.--section 330b(b)(2)(d) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 254c-2(b)(2)(d)) is amended by striking ``and 2019, and $96,575,342 for the period beginning on october 1, 2019, and ending on may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``through 2020, and $25,068,493 for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020''. (b) indians.--section 330c(c)(2)(d) of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 254c-3(c)(2)(d)) is amended by striking ``and 2019, and $96,575,342 for the period beginning on october 1, 2019, and ending on may 22, 2020'' and inserting ``through 2020, and $25,068,493 for the period beginning on october 1, 2020, and ending on november 30, 2020''. part v--miscellaneous provisions sec. 3841. prevention of duplicate appropriations for fiscal year 2020. expenditures made under any provision of law amended in this title pursuant to the amendments made by the continuing appropriations act, 2020, and health extenders act of 2019 (public law 116-59), the further continuing appropriations act, 2020, and further health extenders act of 2019 (public law 116-69), and the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-94) for fiscal year 2020 shall be charged to the applicable appropriation or authorization provided by the amendments made by this title to such provision of law for such fiscal year. [[page h1772]] subtitle f--over-the-counter drugs part i--otc drug review sec. 3851. regulation of certain nonprescription drugs that are marketed without an approved drug application. (a) in general.--chapter v of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act is amended by inserting after section 505f of such act (21 u.s.c. 355g) the following: ``sec. 505g. regulation of certain nonprescription drugs that are marketed without an approved drug application. ``(a) nonprescription drugs marketed without an approved application.--nonprescription drugs marketed without an approved drug application under section 505, as of the date of the enactment of this section, shall be treated in accordance with this subsection. ``(1) drugs subject to a final monograph; category i drugs subject to a tentative final monograph.--a drug is deemed to be generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1), not a new drug under section 201(p), and not subject to section 503(b)(1), if-- ``(a) the drug is-- ``(i) in conformity with the requirements for nonprescription use of a final monograph issued under part 330 of title 21, code of federal regulations (except as provided in paragraph (2)), the general requirements for nonprescription drugs, and conditions or requirements under subsections (b), (c), and (k); and ``(ii) except as permitted by an order issued under subsection (b) or, in the case of a minor change in the drug, in conformity with an order issued under subsection (c), in a dosage form that, immediately prior to the date of the enactment of this section, has been used to a material extent and for a material time under section 201(p)(2); or ``(b) the drug is-- ``(i) classified in category i for safety and effectiveness under a tentative final monograph that is the most recently applicable proposal or determination issued under part 330 of title 21, code of federal regulations; ``(ii) in conformity with the proposed requirements for nonprescription use of such tentative final monograph, any applicable subsequent determination by the secretary, the general requirements for nonprescription drugs, and conditions or requirements under subsections (b), (c), and (k); and ``(iii) except as permitted by an order issued under subsection (b) or, in the case of a minor change in the drug, in conformity with an order issued under subsection (c), in a dosage form that, immediately prior to the date of the enactment of this section, has been used to a material extent and for a material time under section 201(p)(2). ``(2) treatment of sunscreen drugs.--with respect to sunscreen drugs subject to this section, the applicable requirements in terms of conformity with a final monograph, for purposes of paragraph (1)(a)(i), shall be the requirements specified in part 352 of title 21, code of federal regulations, as published on may 21, 1999, beginning on page 27687 of volume 64 of the federal register, except that the applicable requirements governing effectiveness and labeling shall be those specified in section 201.327 of title 21, code of federal regulations. ``(3) category iii drugs subject to a tentative final monograph; category i drugs subject to proposed monograph or advance notice of proposed rulemaking.--a drug that is not described in paragraph (1), (2), or (4) is not required to be the subject of an application approved under section 505, and is not subject to section 503(b)(1), if-- ``(a) the drug is-- ``(i) classified in category iii for safety or effectiveness in the preamble of a proposed rule establishing a tentative final monograph that is the most recently applicable proposal or determination for such drug issued under part 330 of title 21, code of federal regulations; ``(ii) in conformity with-- ``(i) the conditions of use, including indication and dosage strength, if any, described for such category iii drug in such preamble or in an applicable subsequent proposed rule; ``(ii) the proposed requirements for drugs classified in such tentative final monograph in category i in the most recently proposed rule establishing requirements related to such tentative final monograph and in any final rule establishing requirements that are applicable to the drug; and ``(iii) the general requirements for nonprescription drugs and conditions or requirements under subsection (b) or (k); and ``(iii) in a dosage form that, immediately prior to the date of the enactment of this section, had been used to a material extent and for a material time under section 201(p)(2); or ``(b) the drug is-- ``(i) classified in category i for safety and effectiveness under a proposed monograph or advance notice of proposed rulemaking that is the most recently applicable proposal or determination for such drug issued under part 330 of title 21, code of federal regulations; ``(ii) in conformity with the requirements for nonprescription use of such proposed monograph or advance notice of proposed rulemaking, any applicable subsequent determination by the secretary, the general requirements for nonprescription drugs, and conditions or requirements under subsection (b) or (k); and ``(iii) in a dosage form that, immediately prior to the date of the enactment of this section, has been used to a material extent and for a material time under section 201(p)(2). ``(4) category ii drugs deemed new drugs.--a drug that is classified in category ii for safety or effectiveness under a tentative final monograph or that is subject to a determination to be not generally recognized as safe and effective in a proposed rule that is the most recently applicable proposal issued under part 330 of title 21, code of federal regulations, shall be deemed to be a new drug under section 201(p), misbranded under section 502(ee), and subject to the requirement for an approved new drug application under section 505 beginning on the day that is 180 calendar days after the date of the enactment of this section, unless, before such day, the secretary determines that it is in the interest of public health to extend the period during which the drug may be marketed without such an approved new drug application. ``(5) drugs not grase deemed new drugs.--a drug that the secretary has determined not to be generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1) under a final determination issued under part 330 of title 21, code of federal regulations, shall be deemed to be a new drug under section 201(p), misbranded under section 502(ee), and subject to the requirement for an approved new drug application under section 505. ``(6) other drugs deemed new drugs.--except as provided in subsection (m), a drug is deemed to be a new drug under section 201(p) and misbranded under section 502(ee) if the drug-- ``(a) is not subject to section 503(b)(1); and ``(b) is not described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5), or subsection (b)(1)(b). ``(b) administrative orders.-- ``(1) in general.-- ``(a) determination.--the secretary may, on the initiative of the secretary or at the request of one or more requestors, issue an administrative order determining whether there are conditions under which a specific drug, a class of drugs, or a combination of drugs, is determined to be-- ``(i) not subject to section 503(b)(1); and ``(ii) generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1). ``(b) effect.--a drug or combination of drugs shall be deemed to not require approval under section 505 if such drug or combination of drugs-- ``(i) is determined by the secretary to meet the conditions specified in clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (a); ``(ii) is marketed in conformity with an administrative order under this subsection; ``(iii) meets the general requirements for nonprescription drugs; and ``(iv) meets the requirements under subsections (c) and (k). ``(c) standard.--the secretary shall find that a drug is not generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1) if-- ``(i) the evidence shows that the drug is not generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1); or ``(ii) the evidence is inadequate to show that the drug is generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1). ``(2) administrative orders initiated by the secretary.-- ``(a) in general.--in issuing an administrative order under paragraph (1) upon the secretary's initiative, the secretary shall-- ``(i) make reasonable efforts to notify informally, not later than 2 business days before the issuance of the proposed order, the sponsors of drugs who have a listing in effect under section 510(j) for the drugs or combination of drugs that will be subject to the administrative order; ``(ii) after any such reasonable efforts of notification-- ``(i) issue a proposed administrative order by publishing it on the website of the food and drug administration and include in such order the reasons for the issuance of such order; and ``(ii) publish a notice of availability of such proposed order in the federal register; ``(iii) except as provided in subparagraph (b), provide for a public comment period with respect to such proposed order of not less than 45 calendar days; and ``(iv) if, after completion of the proceedings specified in clauses (i) through (iii), the secretary determines that it is appropriate to issue a final administrative order-- ``(i) issue the final administrative order, together with a detailed statement of reasons, which order shall not take effect until the time for requesting judicial review under paragraph (3)(d)(ii) has expired; ``(ii) publish a notice of such final administrative order in the federal register; ``(iii) afford requestors of drugs that will be subject to such order the opportunity for formal dispute resolution up to the level of the director of the center for drug evaluation and research, which initially must be requested within 45 calendar days of the issuance of the order, and, for subsequent levels of appeal, within 30 calendar days of the prior decision; and ``(iv) except with respect to drugs described in paragraph (3)(b), upon completion of the formal dispute resolution procedure, inform the persons which sought such dispute resolution of their right to request a hearing. ``(b) exceptions.--when issuing an administrative order under paragraph (1) on the secretary's initiative proposing to determine that a drug described in subsection (a)(3) is not generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1), the secretary shall follow the procedures in subparagraph (a), except that-- ``(i) the proposed order shall include notice of-- ``(i) the general categories of data the secretary has determined necessary to establish that the drug is generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1); and ``(ii) the format for submissions by interested persons; ``(ii) the secretary shall provide for a public comment period of no less than 180 calendar days with respect to such proposed order, except when the secretary determines, for good cause, that a shorter period is in the interest of public health; and [[page h1773]] ``(iii) any person who submits data in such comment period shall include a certification that the person has submitted all evidence created, obtained, or received by that person that is both within the categories of data identified in the proposed order and relevant to a determination as to whether the drug is generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1). ``(3) hearings; judicial review.-- ``(a) in general.--only a person who participated in each stage of formal dispute resolution under subclause (iii) of paragraph (2)(a)(iv) of an administrative order with respect to a drug may request a hearing concerning a final administrative order issued under such paragraph with respect to such drug. if a hearing is sought, such person must submit a request for a hearing, which shall be based solely on information in the administrative record, to the secretary not later than 30 calendar days after receiving notice of the final decision of the formal dispute resolution procedure. ``(b) no hearing required with respect to orders relating to certain drugs.-- ``(i) in general.--the secretary shall not be required to provide notice and an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to paragraph (2)(a)(iv) if the final administrative order involved relates to a drug-- ``(i) that is described in subsection (a)(3)(a); and ``(ii) with respect to which no human or non-human data studies relevant to the safety or effectiveness of such drug have been submitted to the administrative record since the issuance of the most recent tentative final monograph relating to such drug. ``(ii) human data studies and non-human data defined.--in this subparagraph: ``(i) the term `human data studies' means clinical trials of safety or effectiveness (including actual use studies), pharmacokinetics studies, or bioavailability studies. ``(ii) the term `non-human data' means data from testing other than with human subjects which provides information concerning safety or effectiveness. ``(c) hearing procedures.-- ``(i) denial of request for hearing.--if the secretary determines that information submitted in a request for a hearing under subparagraph (a) with respect to a final administrative order issued under paragraph (2)(a)(iv) does not identify the existence of a genuine and substantial question of material fact, the secretary may deny such request. in making such a determination, the secretary may consider only information and data that are based on relevant and reliable scientific principles and methodologies. ``(ii) single hearing for multiple related requests.--if more than one request for a hearing is submitted with respect to the same administrative order under subparagraph (a), the secretary may direct that a single hearing be conducted in which all persons whose hearing requests were granted may participate. ``(iii) presiding officer.--the presiding officer of a hearing requested under subparagraph (a) shall-- ``(i) be designated by the secretary; ``(ii) not be an employee of the center for drug evaluation and research; and ``(iii) not have been previously involved in the development of the administrative order involved or proceedings relating to that administrative order. ``(iv) rights of parties to hearing.--the parties to a hearing requested under subparagraph (a) shall have the right to present testimony, including testimony of expert witnesses, and to cross-examine witnesses presented by other parties. where appropriate, the presiding officer may require that cross-examination by parties representing substantially the same interests be consolidated to promote efficiency and avoid duplication. ``(v) final decision.-- ``(i) at the conclusion of a hearing requested under subparagraph (a), the presiding officer of the hearing shall issue a decision containing findings of fact and conclusions of law. the decision of the presiding officer shall be final. ``(ii) the final decision may not take effect until the period under subparagraph (d)(ii) for submitting a request for judicial review of such decision expires. ``(d) judicial review of final administrative order.-- ``(i) in general.--the procedures described in section 505(h) shall apply with respect to judicial review of final administrative orders issued under this subsection in the same manner and to the same extent as such section applies to an order described in such section except that the judicial review shall be taken by filing in an appropriate district court of the united states in lieu of the appellate courts specified in such section. ``(ii) period to submit a request for judicial review.--a person eligible to request a hearing under this paragraph and seeking judicial review of a final administrative order issued under this subsection shall file such request for judicial review not later than 60 calendar days after the latest of-- ``(i) the date on which notice of such order is published; ``(ii) the date on which a hearing with respect to such order is denied under subparagraph (b) or (c)(i); ``(iii) the date on which a final decision is made following a hearing under subparagraph (c)(v); or ``(iv) if no hearing is requested, the date on which the time for requesting a hearing expires. ``(4) expedited procedure with respect to administrative orders initiated by the secretary.-- ``(a) imminent hazard to the public health.-- ``(i) in general.--in the case of a determination by the secretary that a drug, class of drugs, or combination of drugs subject to this section poses an imminent hazard to the public health, the secretary, after first making reasonable efforts to notify, not later than 48 hours before issuance of such order under this subparagraph, sponsors who have a listing in effect under section 510(j) for such drug or combination of drugs-- ``(i) may issue an interim final administrative order for such drug, class of drugs, or combination of drugs under paragraph (1), together with a detailed statement of the reasons for such order; ``(ii) shall publish in the federal register a notice of availability of any such order; and ``(iii) shall provide for a public comment period of at least 45 calendar days with respect to such interim final order. ``(ii) nondelegation.--the secretary may not delegate the authority to issue an interim final administrative order under this subparagraph. ``(b) safety labeling changes.-- ``(i) in general.--in the case of a determination by the secretary that a change in the labeling of a drug, class of drugs, or combination of drugs subject to this section is reasonably expected to mitigate a significant or unreasonable risk of a serious adverse event associated with use of the drug, the secretary may-- ``(i) make reasonable efforts to notify informally, not later than 48 hours before the issuance of the interim final order, the sponsors of drugs who have a listing in effect under section 510(j) for such drug or combination of drugs; ``(ii) after reasonable efforts of notification, issue an interim final administrative order in accordance with paragraph (1) to require such change, together with a detailed statement of the reasons for such order; ``(iii) publish in the federal register a notice of availability of such order; and ``(iv) provide for a public comment period of at least 45 calendar days with respect to such interim final order. ``(ii) content of order.--an interim final order issued under this subparagraph with respect to the labeling of a drug may provide for new warnings and other information required for safe use of the drug. ``(c) effective date.--an order under subparagraph (a) or (b) shall take effect on a date specified by the secretary. ``(d) final order.--after the completion of the proceedings in subparagraph (a) or (b), the secretary shall-- ``(i) issue a final order in accordance with paragraph (1); ``(ii) publish a notice of availability of such final administrative order in the federal register; and ``(iii) afford sponsors of such drugs that will be subject to such an order the opportunity for formal dispute resolution up to the level of the director of the center for drug evaluation and research, which must initially be within 45 calendar days of the issuance of the order, and for subsequent levels of appeal, within 30 calendar days of the prior decision. ``(e) hearings.--a sponsor of a drug subject to a final order issued under subparagraph (d) and that participated in each stage of formal dispute resolution under clause (iii) of such subparagraph may request a hearing on such order. the provisions of subparagraphs (a), (b), and (c) of paragraph (3), other than paragraph (3)(c)(v)(ii), shall apply with respect to a hearing on such order in the same manner and to the same extent as such provisions apply with respect to a hearing on an administrative order issued under paragraph (2)(a)(iv). ``(f) timing.-- ``(i) final order and hearing.--the secretary shall-- ``(i) not later than 6 months after the date on which the comment period closes under subparagraph (a) or (b), issue a final order in accordance with paragraph (1); and ``(ii) not later than 12 months after the date on which such final order is issued, complete any hearing under subparagraph (e). ``(ii) dispute resolution request.--the secretary shall specify in an interim final order issued under subparagraph (a) or (b) such shorter periods for requesting dispute resolution under subparagraph (d)(iii) as are necessary to meet the requirements of this subparagraph. ``(g) judicial review.--a final order issued pursuant to subparagraph (f) shall be subject to judicial review in accordance with paragraph (3)(d). ``(5) administrative order initiated at the request of a requestor.-- ``(a) in general.--in issuing an administrative order under paragraph (1) at the request of a requestor with respect to certain drugs, classes of drugs, or combinations of drugs-- ``(i) the secretary shall, after receiving a request under this subparagraph, determine whether the request is sufficiently complete and formatted to permit a substantive review; ``(ii) if the secretary determines that the request is sufficiently complete and formatted to permit a substantive review, the secretary shall-- ``(i) file the request; and ``(ii) initiate proceedings with respect to issuing an administrative order in accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3); and ``(iii) except as provided in paragraph (6), if the secretary determines that a request does not meet the requirements for filing or is not sufficiently complete and formatted to permit a substantive review, the requestor may demand that the request be filed over protest, and the secretary shall initiate proceedings to review the request in accordance with paragraph (2)(a). ``(b) request to initiate proceedings.-- ``(i) in general.--a requestor seeking an administrative order under paragraph (1) with respect to certain drugs, classes of drugs, or combinations of drugs, shall submit to the secretary a request to initiate proceedings for such order [[page h1774]] in the form and manner as specified by the secretary. such requestor may submit a request under this subparagraph for the issuance of an administrative order-- ``(i) determining whether a drug is generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1), exempt from section 503(b)(1), and not required to be the subject of an approved application under section 505; or ``(ii) determining whether a change to a condition of use of a drug is generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1), exempt from section 503(b)(1), and not required to be the subject of an approved application under section 505, if, absent such a changed condition of use, such drug is-- ``(aa) generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1) in accordance with subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), or an order under this subsection; or ``(bb) subject to subsection (a)(3), but only if such requestor initiates such request in conjunction with a request for the secretary to determine whether such drug is generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1), which is filed by the secretary under subparagraph (a)(ii). ``(ii) exception.--the secretary is not required to complete review of a request for a change described in clause (i)(ii) if the secretary determines that there is an inadequate basis to find the drug is generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1) under paragraph (1) and issues a final order announcing that determination. ``(iii) withdrawal.--the requestor may withdraw a request under this paragraph, according to the procedures set forth pursuant to subsection (d)(2)(b). notwithstanding any other provision of this section, if such request is withdrawn, the secretary may cease proceedings under this subparagraph. ``(c) exclusivity.-- ``(i) in general.--a final administrative order issued in response to a request under this section shall have the effect of authorizing solely the order requestor (or the licensees, assignees, or successors in interest of such requestor with respect to the subject of such order), for a period of 18 months following the effective date of such final order and beginning on the date the requestor may lawfully market such drugs pursuant to the order, to market drugs-- ``(i) incorporating changes described in clause (ii); and ``(ii) subject to the limitations under clause (iv). ``(ii) changes described.--a change described in this clause is a change subject to an order specified in clause (i), which-- ``(i) provides for a drug to contain an active ingredient (including any ester or salt of the active ingredient) not previously incorporated in a drug described in clause (iii); or ``(ii) provides for a change in the conditions of use of a drug, for which new human data studies conducted or sponsored by the requestor (or for which the requestor has an exclusive right of reference) were essential to the issuance of such order. ``(iii) drugs described.--the drugs described in this clause are drugs-- ``(i) specified in subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3); ``(ii) subject to a final order issued under this section; ``(iii) subject to a final sunscreen order (as defined in section 586(2)(a)); or ``(iv) described in subsection (m)(1), other than drugs subject to an active enforcement action under chapter iii of this act. ``(iv) limitations on exclusivity.-- ``(i) in general.--only one 18-month period under this subparagraph shall be granted, under each order described in clause (i), with respect to changes (to the drug subject to such order) which are either-- ``(aa) changes described in clause (ii)(i), relating to active ingredients; or ``(bb) changes described in clause (ii)(ii), relating to conditions of use. ``(ii) no exclusivity allowed.--no exclusivity shall apply to changes to a drug which are-- ``(aa) the subject of a tier 2 otc monograph order request (as defined in section 744l); ``(bb) safety-related changes, as defined by the secretary, or any other changes the secretary considers necessary to assure safe use; or ``(cc) changes related to methods of testing safety or efficacy. ``(v) new human data studies defined.--in this subparagraph, the term `new human data studies' means clinical trials of safety or effectiveness (including actual use studies), pharmacokinetics studies, or bioavailability studies, the results of which-- ``(i) have not been relied on by the secretary to support-- ``(aa) a proposed or final determination that a drug described in subclause (i), (ii), or (iii) of clause (iii) is generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1); or ``(bb) approval of a drug that was approved under section 505; and ``(ii) do not duplicate the results of another study that was relied on by the secretary to support-- ``(aa) a proposed or final determination that a drug described in subclause (i), (ii), or (iii) of clause (iii) is generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1); or ``(bb) approval of a drug that was approved under section 505. ``(vi) notification of drug not available for sale.--a requestor that is granted exclusivity with respect to a drug under this subparagraph shall notify the secretary in writing within 1 year of the issuance of the final administrative order if the drug that is the subject of such order will not be available for sale within 1 year of the date of issuance of such order. the requestor shall include with such notice the-- ``(i) identity of the drug by established name and by proprietary name, if any; ``(ii) strength of the drug; ``(iii) date on which the drug will be available for sale, if known; and ``(iv) reason for not marketing the drug after issuance of the order. ``(6) information regarding safe nonprescription marketing and use as condition for filing a generally recognized as safe and effective request.-- ``(a) in general.--in response to a request under this section that a drug described in subparagraph (b) be generally recognized as safe and effective, the secretary-- ``(i) may file such request, if the request includes information specified under subparagraph (c) with respect to safe nonprescription marketing and use of such drug; or ``(ii) if the request fails to include information specified under subparagraph (c), shall refuse to file such request and require that nonprescription marketing of the drug be pursuant to a new drug application as described in subparagraph (d). ``(b) drug described.--a drug described in this subparagraph is a nonprescription drug which contains an active ingredient not previously incorporated in a drug-- ``(i) specified in subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3); ``(ii) subject to a final order under this section; or ``(iii) subject to a final sunscreen order (as defined in section 586(2)(a)). ``(c) information demonstrating prima facie safe nonprescription marketing and use.--information specified in this subparagraph, with respect to a request described in subparagraph (a)(i), is-- ``(i) information sufficient for a prima facie demonstration that the drug subject to such request has a verifiable history of being marketed and safely used by consumers in the united states as a nonprescription drug under comparable conditions of use; ``(ii) if the drug has not been previously marketed in the united states as a nonprescription drug, information sufficient for a prima facie demonstration that the drug was marketed and safely used under comparable conditions of marketing and use in a country listed in section 802(b)(1)(a) or designated by the secretary in accordance with section 802(b)(1)(b)-- ``(i) for such period as needed to provide reasonable assurances concerning the safe nonprescription use of the drug; and ``(ii) during such time was subject to sufficient monitoring by a regulatory body considered acceptable by the secretary for such monitoring purposes, including for adverse events associated with nonprescription use of the drug; or ``(iii) if the secretary determines that information described in clause (i) or (ii) is not needed to provide a prima facie demonstration that the drug can be safely marketed and used as a nonprescription drug, such other information the secretary determines is sufficient for such purposes. ``(d) marketing pursuant to new drug application.--in the case of a request described in subparagraph (a)(ii), the drug subject to such request may be resubmitted for filing only if-- ``(i) the drug is marketed as a nonprescription drug, under conditions of use comparable to the conditions specified in the request, for such period as the secretary determines appropriate (not to exceed 5 consecutive years) pursuant to an application approved under section 505; and ``(ii) during such period, 1,000,000 retail packages of the drug, or an equivalent quantity as determined by the secretary, were distributed for retail sale, as determined in such manner as the secretary finds appropriate. ``(e) rule of application.--except in the case of a request involving a drug described in section 586(9), as in effect on january 1, 2017, if the secretary refuses to file a request under this paragraph, the requestor may not file such request over protest under paragraph (5)(a)(iii). ``(7) packaging.--an administrative order issued under paragraph (2), (4)(a), or (5) may include requirements for the packaging of a drug to encourage use in accordance with labeling. such requirements may include unit dose packaging, requirements for products intended for use by pediatric populations, requirements to reduce risk of harm from unsupervised ingestion, and other appropriate requirements. this paragraph does not authorize the food and drug administration to require standards or testing procedures as described in part 1700 of title 16, code of federal regulations. ``(8) final and tentative final monographs for category i drugs deemed final administrative orders.-- ``(a) in general.--a final monograph or tentative final monograph described in subparagraph (b) shall be deemed to be a final administrative order under this subsection and may be amended, revoked, or otherwise modified in accordance with the procedures of this subsection. ``(b) monographs described.--for purposes of subparagraph (a), a final monograph or tentative final monograph is described in this subparagraph if it-- ``(i) establishes conditions of use for a drug described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a); and ``(ii) represents the most recently promulgated version of such conditions, including as modified, in whole or in part, by any proposed or final rule. ``(c) deemed orders include harmonizing technical amendments.--the deemed establishment of a final administrative order under subparagraph (a) shall be construed to include any technical amendments to such order as the secretary determines necessary to ensure that such order is appropriately harmonized, in terms of terminology or cross-references, with [[page h1775]] the applicable provisions of this act (and regulations thereunder) and any other orders issued under this section. ``(c) procedure for minor changes.-- ``(1) in general.--minor changes in the dosage form of a drug that is described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a) or the subject of an order issued under subsection (b) may be made by a requestor without the issuance of an order under subsection (b) if-- ``(a) the requestor maintains such information as is necessary to demonstrate that the change-- ``(i) will not affect the safety or effectiveness of the drug; and ``(ii) will not materially affect the extent of absorption or other exposure to the active ingredient in comparison to a suitable reference product; and ``(b) the change is in conformity with the requirements of an applicable administrative order issued by the secretary under paragraph (3). ``(2) additional information.-- ``(a) access to records.--a sponsor shall submit records requested by the secretary relating to such a minor change under section 704(a)(4), within 15 business days of receiving such a request, or such longer period as the secretary may provide. ``(b) insufficient information.--if the secretary determines that the information contained in such records is not sufficient to demonstrate that the change does not affect the safety or effectiveness of the drug or materially affect the extent of absorption or other exposure to the active ingredient, the secretary-- ``(i) may so inform the sponsor of the drug in writing; and ``(ii) if the secretary so informs the sponsor, shall provide the sponsor of the drug with a reasonable opportunity to provide additional information. ``(c) failure to submit sufficient information.--if the sponsor fails to provide such additional information within a time prescribed by the secretary, or if the secretary determines that such additional information does not demonstrate that the change does not-- ``(i) affect the safety or effectiveness of the drug; or ``(ii) materially affect the extent of absorption or other exposure to the active ingredient in comparison to a suitable reference product, the drug as modified is a new drug under section 201(p) and shall be deemed to be misbranded under section 502(ee). ``(3) determining whether a change will affect safety or effectiveness.-- ``(a) in general.--the secretary shall issue one or more administrative orders specifying requirements for determining whether a minor change made by a sponsor pursuant to this subsection will affect the safety or effectiveness of a drug or materially affect the extent of absorption or other exposure to an active ingredient in the drug in comparison to a suitable reference product, together with guidance for applying those orders to specific dosage forms. ``(b) standard practices.--the orders and guidance issued by the secretary under subparagraph (a) shall take into account relevant public standards and standard practices for evaluating the quality of drugs, and may take into account the special needs of populations, including children. ``(d) confidentiality of information submitted to the secretary.-- ``(1) in general.--subject to paragraph (2), any information, including reports of testing conducted on the drug or drugs involved, that is submitted by a requestor in connection with proceedings on an order under this section (including any minor change under subsection (c)) and is a trade secret or confidential information subject to section 552(b)(4) of title 5, united states code, or section 1905 of title 18, united states code, shall not be disclosed to the public unless the requestor consents to that disclosure. ``(2) public availability.-- ``(a) in general.--except as provided in subparagraph (b), the secretary shall-- ``(i) make any information submitted by a requestor in support of a request under subsection (b)(5)(a) available to the public not later than the date on which the proposed order is issued; and ``(ii) make any information submitted by any other person with respect to an order requested (or initiated by the secretary) under subsection (b), available to the public upon such submission. ``(b) limitations on public availability.--information described in subparagraph (a) shall not be made public if-- ``(i) the information pertains to pharmaceutical quality information, unless such information is necessary to establish standards under which a drug is generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1); ``(ii) the information is submitted in a requestor- initiated request, but the requestor withdraws such request, in accordance with withdrawal procedures established by the secretary, before the secretary issues the proposed order; ``(iii) the secretary requests and obtains the information under subsection (c) and such information is not submitted in relation to an order under subsection (b); or ``(iv) the information is of the type contained in raw datasets. ``(e) updates to drug listing information.--a sponsor who makes a change to a drug subject to this section shall submit updated drug listing information for the drug in accordance with section 510(j) within 30 calendar days of the date when the drug is first commercially marketed, except that a sponsor who was the order requestor with respect to an order subject to subsection (b)(5)(c) (or a licensee, assignee, or successor in interest of such requestor) shall submit updated drug listing information on or before the date when the drug is first commercially marketed. ``(f) approvals under section 505.--the provisions of this section shall not be construed to preclude a person from seeking or maintaining the approval of an application for a drug under sections 505(b)(1), 505(b)(2), and 505(j). a determination under this section that a drug is not subject to section 503(b)(1), is generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1), and is not a new drug under section 201(p) shall constitute a finding that the drug is safe and effective that may be relied upon for purposes of an application under section 505(b)(2), so that the applicant shall be required to submit for purposes of such application only information needed to support any modification of the drug that is not covered by such determination under this section. ``(g) public availability of administrative orders.--the secretary shall establish, maintain, update (as determined necessary by the secretary but no less frequently than annually), and make publicly available, with respect to orders issued under this section-- ``(1) a repository of each final order and interim final order in effect, including the complete text of the order; and ``(2) a listing of all orders proposed and under development under subsection (b)(2), including-- ``(a) a brief description of each such order; and ``(b) the secretary's expectations, if resources permit, for issuance of proposed orders over a 3-year period. ``(h) development advice to sponsors or requestors.--the secretary shall establish procedures under which sponsors or requestors may meet with appropriate officials of the food and drug administration to obtain advice on the studies and other information necessary to support submissions under this section and other matters relevant to the regulation of nonprescription drugs and the development of new nonprescription drugs under this section. ``(i) participation of multiple sponsors or requestors.-- the secretary shall establish procedures to facilitate efficient participation by multiple sponsors or requestors in proceedings under this section, including provision for joint meetings with multiple sponsors or requestors or with organizations nominated by sponsors or requestors to represent their interests in a proceeding. ``(j) electronic format.--all submissions under this section shall be in electronic format. ``(k) effect on existing regulations governing nonprescription drugs.-- ``(1) regulations of general applicability to nonprescription drugs.--except as provided in this subsection, nothing in this section supersedes regulations establishing general requirements for nonprescription drugs, including regulations of general applicability contained in parts 201, 250, and 330 of title 21, code of federal regulations, or any successor regulations. the secretary shall establish or modify such regulations by means of rulemaking in accordance with section 553 of title 5, united states code. ``(2) regulations establishing requirements for specific nonprescription drugs.-- ``(a) the provisions of section 310.545 of title 21, code of federal regulations, as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this section, shall be deemed to be a final order under subsection (b). ``(b) regulations in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this section, establishing requirements for specific nonprescription drugs marketed pursuant to this section (including such requirements in parts 201 and 250 of title 21, code of federal regulations), shall be deemed to be final orders under subsection (b), only as they apply to drugs-- ``(i) subject to paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4) of subsection (a); or ``(ii) otherwise subject to an order under this section. ``(3) withdrawal of regulations.--the secretary shall withdraw regulations establishing final monographs and the procedures governing the over-the-counter drug review under part 330 and other relevant parts of title 21, code of federal regulations (as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this section), or make technical changes to such regulations to ensure conformity with appropriate terminology and cross references. notwithstanding subchapter ii of chapter 5 of title 5, united states code, any such withdrawal or technical changes shall be made without public notice and comment and shall be effective upon publication through notice in the federal register (or upon such date as specified in such notice). ``(l) guidance.--the secretary shall issue guidance that specifies-- ``(1) the procedures and principles for formal meetings between the secretary and sponsors or requestors for drugs subject to this section; ``(2) the format and content of data submissions to the secretary under this section; ``(3) the format of electronic submissions to the secretary under this section; ``(4) consolidated proceedings for appeal and the procedures for such proceedings where appropriate; and ``(5) for minor changes in drugs, recommendations on how to comply with the requirements in orders issued under subsection (c)(3). ``(m) rule of construction.-- ``(1) in general.--this section shall not affect the treatment or status of a nonprescription drug-- ``(a) that is marketed without an application approved under section 505 as of the date of the enactment of this section; ``(b) that is not subject to an order issued under this section; and ``(c) to which paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of subsection (a) do not apply. ``(2) treatment of products previously found to be subject to time and extent requirements.-- [[page h1776]] ``(a) notwithstanding subsection (a), a drug described in subparagraph (b) may only be lawfully marketed, without an application approved under section 505, pursuant to an order issued under this section. ``(b) a drug described in this subparagraph is a drug which, prior to the date of the enactment of this section, the secretary determined in a proposed or final rule to be ineligible for review under the otc drug review (as such phrase `otc drug review' was used in section 330.14 of title 21, code of federal regulations, as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this section). ``(3) preservation of authority.-- ``(a) nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to preclude or limit the applicability of any provision of this act other than this section. ``(b) nothing in subsection (a) shall be construed to prohibit the secretary from issuing an order under this section finding a drug to be not generally recognized as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1), as the secretary determines appropriate. ``(n) investigational new drugs.--a drug is not subject to this section if an exemption for investigational use under section 505(i) is in effect for such drug. ``(o) inapplicability of paperwork reduction act.--chapter 35 of title 44, united states code, shall not apply to collections of information made under this section. ``(p) inapplicability of notice and comment rulemaking and other requirements.--the requirements of subsection (b) shall apply with respect to orders issued under this section instead of the requirements of subchapter ii of chapter 5 of title 5, united states code. ``(q) definitions.--in this section: ``(1) the term `nonprescription drug' refers to a drug not subject to the requirements of section 503(b)(1). ``(2) the term `sponsor' refers to any person marketing, manufacturing, or processing a drug that-- ``(a) is listed pursuant to section 510(j); and ``(b) is or will be subject to an administrative order under this section of the food and drug administration. ``(3) the term `requestor' refers to any person or group of persons marketing, manufacturing, processing, or developing a drug.''. (b) gao study.--not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of this act, the comptroller general of the united states shall submit a study to the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives and the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate addressing the effectiveness and overall impact of exclusivity under section 505g of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as added by subsection (a), and section 586c of such act (21 u.s.c. 360fff-3), including the impact of such exclusivity on consumer access. such study shall include-- (1) an analysis of the impact of exclusivity under such section 505g for nonprescription drug products, including-- (a) the number of nonprescription drug products that were granted exclusivity and the indication for which the nonprescription drug products were determined to be generally recognized as safe and effective; (b) whether the exclusivity for such drug products was granted for-- (i) a new active ingredient (including any ester or salt of the active ingredient); or (ii) changes in the conditions of use of a drug, for which new human data studies conducted or sponsored by the requestor were essential; (c) whether, and to what extent, the exclusivity impacted the requestor's or sponsor's decision to develop the drug product; (d) an analysis of the implementation of the exclusivity provision in such section 505g, including-- (i) the resources used by the food and drug administration; (ii) the impact of such provision on innovation, as well as research and development in the nonprescription drug market; (iii) the impact of such provision on competition in the nonprescription drug market; (iv) the impact of such provision on consumer access to nonprescription drug products; (v) the impact of such provision on the prices of nonprescription drug products; and (vi) whether the administrative orders initiated by requestors under such section 505g have been sufficient to encourage the development of nonprescription drug products that would likely not be otherwise developed, or developed in as timely a manner; and (e) whether the administrative orders initiated by requestors under such section 505g have been sufficient incentive to encourage innovation in the nonprescription drug market; and (2) an analysis of the impact of exclusivity under such section 586c for sunscreen ingredients, including-- (a) the number of sunscreen ingredients that were granted exclusivity and the specific ingredient that was determined to be generally recognized as safe and effective; (b) whether, and to what extent, the exclusivity impacted the requestor's or sponsor's decision to develop the sunscreen ingredient; (c) whether, and to what extent, the sunscreen ingredient granted exclusivity had previously been available outside of the united states; (d) an analysis of the implementation of the exclusivity provision in such section 586c, including-- (i) the resources used by the food and drug administration; (ii) the impact of such provision on innovation, as well as research and development in the sunscreen market; (iii) the impact of such provision on competition in the sunscreen market; (iv) the impact of such provision on consumer access to sunscreen products; (v) the impact of such provision on the prices of sunscreen products; and (vi) whether the administrative orders initiated by requestors under such section 505g have been utilized by sunscreen ingredient sponsors and whether such process has been sufficient to encourage the development of sunscreen ingredients that would likely not be otherwise developed, or developed in as timely a manner; and (e) whether the administrative orders initiated by requestors under such section 586c have been sufficient incentive to encourage innovation in the sunscreen market. (c) conforming amendment.--section 751(d)(1) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 379r(d)(1)) is amended-- (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (a)-- (a) by striking ``final regulation promulgated'' and inserting ``final order under section 505g''; and (b) by striking ``and not misbranded''; and (2) in subparagraph (a), by striking ``regulation in effect'' and inserting ``regulation or order in effect''. sec. 3852. misbranding. section 502 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 352) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(ee) if it is a nonprescription drug that is subject to section 505g, is not the subject of an application approved under section 505, and does not comply with the requirements under section 505g. ``(ff) if it is a drug and it was manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or processed in a facility for which fees have not been paid as required by section 744m.''. sec. 3853. drugs excluded from the over-the-counter drug review. (a) in general.--nothing in this act (or the amendments made by this act) shall apply to any nonprescription drug (as defined in section 505g(q) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as added by section 3851 of this subtitle) which was excluded by the food and drug administration from the over-the-counter drug review in accordance with the paragraph numbered 25 on page 9466 of volume 37 of the federal register, published on may 11, 1972. (b) rule of construction.--nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude or limit the applicability of any other provision of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 301 et seq.). sec. 3854. treatment of sunscreen innovation act. (a) review of nonprescription sunscreen active ingredients.-- (1) applicability of section 505g for pending submissions.-- (a) in general.--a sponsor of a nonprescription sunscreen active ingredient or combination of nonprescription sunscreen active ingredients that, as of the date of enactment of this act, is subject to a proposed sunscreen order under section 586c of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 360fff-3) may elect, by means of giving written notification to the secretary of health and human services within 180 calendar days of the enactment of this act, to transition into the review of such ingredient or combination of ingredients pursuant to the process set out in section 505g of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as added by section 3851 of this subtitle. (b) election exercised.--upon receipt by the secretary of health and human services of a timely notification under subparagraph (a)-- (i) the proposed sunscreen order involved is deemed to be a request for an order under subsection (b) of section 505g of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as added by section 3851 of this subtitle; and (ii) such order is deemed to have been accepted for filing under subsection (b)(6)(a)(i) of such section 505g. (c) election not exercised.--if a notification under subparagraph (a) is not received by the secretary of health and human services within 180 calendar days of the date of enactment of this act, the review of the proposed sunscreen order described in subparagraph (a)-- (i) shall continue under section 586c of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 360fff-3); and (ii) shall not be eligible for review under section 505g, added by section 3851 of this subtitle. (2) definitions.--in this subsection, the terms ``sponsor'', ``nonprescription'', ``sunscreen active ingredient'', and ``proposed sunscreen order'' have the meanings given to those terms in section 586 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 360fff). (b) amendments to sunscreen provisions.-- (1) final sunscreen orders.--paragraph (3) of section 586c(e) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 360fff-3(e)) is amended to read as follows: ``(3) relationship to orders under section 505g.--a final sunscreen order shall be deemed to be a final order under section 505g.''. (2) meetings.--paragraph (7) of section 586c(b) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 360fff-3(b)) is amended-- (a) by striking ``a sponsor may request'' and inserting the following: ``(a) in general.--a sponsor may request''; and (b) by adding at the end the following: ``(b) confidential meetings.--a sponsor may request one or more confidential meetings with respect to a proposed sunscreen order, including a letter deemed to be a proposed sunscreen order under paragraph (3), to discuss matters relating to data requirements to support a general recognition of safety and effectiveness involving confidential information and public information related to such proposed sunscreen order, as appropriate. the secretary shall convene a confidential meeting with such sponsor [[page h1777]] in a reasonable time period. if a sponsor requests more than one confidential meeting for the same proposed sunscreen order, the secretary may refuse to grant an additional confidential meeting request if the secretary determines that such additional confidential meeting is not reasonably necessary for the sponsor to advance its proposed sunscreen order, or if the request for a confidential meeting fails to include sufficient information upon which to base a substantive discussion. the secretary shall publish a post- meeting summary of each confidential meeting under this subparagraph that does not disclose confidential commercial information or trade secrets. this subparagraph does not authorize the disclosure of confidential commercial information or trade secrets subject to 552(b)(4) of title 5, united states code, or section 1905 of title 18, united states code.''. (3) exclusivity.--section 586c of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 360fff-3) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(f) exclusivity.-- ``(1) in general.--a final sunscreen order shall have the effect of authorizing solely the order requestor (or the licensees, assignees, or successors in interest of such requestor with respect to the subject of such request and listed under paragraph (5)) for a period of 18 months, to market a sunscreen ingredient under this section incorporating changes described in paragraph (2) subject to the limitations under paragraph (4), beginning on the date the requestor (or any licensees, assignees, or successors in interest of such requestor with respect to the subject of such request and listed under paragraph (5)) may lawfully market such sunscreen ingredient pursuant to the order. ``(2) changes described.--a change described in this paragraph is a change subject to an order specified in paragraph (1) that permits a sunscreen to contain an active sunscreen ingredient not previously incorporated in a marketed sunscreen listed in paragraph (3). ``(3) marketed sunscreen.--the marketed sunscreen ingredients described in this paragraph are sunscreen ingredients-- ``(a) marketed in accordance with a final monograph for sunscreen drug products set forth at part 352 of title 21, code of federal regulations (as published at 64 fed. reg. 27687); or ``(b) marketed in accordance with a final order issued under this section. ``(4) limitations on exclusivity.--only one 18-month period may be granted per ingredient under paragraph (1). ``(5) listing of licensees, assignees, or successors in interest.--requestors shall submit to the secretary at the time when a drug subject to such request is introduced or delivered for introduction into interstate commerce, a list of licensees, assignees, or successors in interest under paragraph (1).''. (4) sunset provision.--subchapter i of chapter v of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 360fff et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``sec. 586h. sunset. ``this subchapter shall cease to be effective at the end of fiscal year 2022.''. (5) treatment of final sunscreen order.--the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act is amended by striking section 586e of such act (21 u.s.c. 360fff-5). (c) treatment of authority regarding finalization of sunscreen monograph.-- (1) in general.-- (a) revision of final sunscreen order.--the secretary of health and human services (referred to in this subsection as the ``secretary'') shall amend and revise the final administrative order concerning nonprescription sunscreen (referred to in this subsection as the ``sunscreen order'') for which the content, prior to the date of enactment of this act, was represented by the final monograph for sunscreen drug products set forth in part 352 of title 21, code of federal regulations (as in effect on may 21, 1999). (b) issuance of revised sunscreen order; effective date.--a revised sunscreen order described in subparagraph (a) shall be-- (i) issued in accordance with the procedures described in section 505g(b)(2) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act; (ii) issued in proposed form not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this act; and (iii) issued by the secretary at least 1 year prior to the effective date of the revised order. (2) reports.--if a revised sunscreen order issued under paragraph (1) does not include provisions related to the effectiveness of various sun protection factor levels, and does not address all dosage forms known to the secretary to be used in sunscreens marketed in the united states without a new drug application approved under section 505 of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 355), the secretary shall submit a report to the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives and the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate on the rationale for omission of such provisions from such order, and a plan and timeline to compile any information necessary to address such provisions through such order. (d) treatment of non-sunscreen time and extent applications.-- (1) in general.--any application described in section 586f of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 360fff-6) that was submitted to the secretary pursuant to section 330.14 of title 21, code of federal regulations, as such provisions were in effect immediately prior to the date of enactment date of this act, shall be extinguished as of such date of enactment, subject to paragraph (2). (2) order request.--nothing in paragraph (1) precludes the submission of an order request under section 505g(b) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as added by section 3851 of this subtitle, with respect to a drug that was the subject of an application extinguished under paragraph (1). sec. 3855. annual update to congress on appropriate pediatric indication for certain otc cough and cold drugs. (a) in general.--subject to subsection (c), the secretary of health and human services shall, beginning not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this act, annually submit to the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives and the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate a letter describing the progress of the food and drug administration-- (1) in evaluating the cough and cold monograph described in subsection (b) with respect to children under age 6; and (2) as appropriate, revising such cough and cold monograph to address such children through the order process under section 505g(b) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as added by section 3851 of this subtitle. (b) cough and cold monograph described.--the cough and cold monograph described in this subsection consists of the conditions under which nonprescription drugs containing antitussive, expectorant, nasal decongestant, or antihistamine active ingredients (or combinations thereof) are generally recognized as safe and effective, as specified in part 341 of title 21, code of federal regulations (as in effect immediately prior to the date of enactment of this act), and included in an order deemed to be established under section 505g(b) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as added by section 3851 of this subtitle. (c) duration of authority.--the requirement under subsection (a) shall terminate as of the date of a letter submitted by the secretary of health and human services pursuant to such subsection in which the secretary indicates that the food and drug administration has completed its evaluation and revised, in a final order, as applicable, the cough and cold monograph as described in subsection (a)(2). sec. 3856. technical corrections. (a) imports and exports.--section 801(e)(4)(e)(iii) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 381(e)(4)(e)(iii)) is amended by striking ``subparagraph'' each place such term appears and inserting ``paragraph''. (b) fda reauthorization act of 2017.-- (1) in general.--section 905(b)(4) of the fda reauthorization act of 2017 (public law 115-52) is amended by striking ``section 744h(e)(2)(b)'' and inserting ``section 744h(f)(2)(b)''. (2) effective date.--the amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect as of the enactment of the fda reauthorization act of 2017 (public law 115-52). part ii--user fees sec. 3861. finding. the congress finds that the fees authorized by the amendments made in this part will be dedicated to otc monograph drug activities, as set forth in the goals identified for purposes of part 10 of subchapter c of chapter vii of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, in the letters from the secretary of health and human services to the chairman of the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate and the chairman of the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives, as set forth in the congressional record. sec. 3862. fees relating to over-the-counter drugs. subchapter c of chapter vii of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act (21 u.s.c. 379f et seq.) is amended by inserting after part 9 the following: ``part 10--fees relating to over-the-counter drugs ``sec. 744l. definitions. ``in this part: ``(1) the term `affiliate' means a business entity that has a relationship with a second business entity if, directly or indirectly-- ``(a) one business entity controls, or has the power to control, the other business entity; or ``(b) a third party controls, or has power to control, both of the business entities. ``(2) the term `contract manufacturing organization facility' means an otc monograph drug facility where neither the owner of such manufacturing facility nor any affiliate of such owner or facility sells the otc monograph drug produced at such facility directly to wholesalers, retailers, or consumers in the united states. ``(3) the term `costs of resources allocated for otc monograph drug activities' means the expenses in connection with otc monograph drug activities for-- ``(a) officers and employees of the food and drug administration, contractors of the food and drug administration, advisory committees, and costs related to such officers, employees, and committees and costs related to contracts with such contractors; ``(b) management of information, and the acquisition, maintenance, and repair of computer resources; ``(c) leasing, maintenance, renovation, and repair of facilities and acquisition, maintenance, and repair of fixtures, furniture, scientific equipment, and other necessary materials and supplies; and ``(d) collecting fees under section 744m and accounting for resources allocated for otc monograph drug activities. ``(4) the term `fda establishment identifier' is the unique number automatically generated by food and drug administration's field accomplishments and compliance tracking system (facts) (or any successor system). [[page h1778]] ``(5) the term `otc monograph drug' means a nonprescription drug without an approved new drug application which is governed by the provisions of section 505g. ``(6) the term `otc monograph drug activities' means activities of the secretary associated with otc monograph drugs and inspection of facilities associated with such products, including the following activities: ``(a) the activities necessary for review and evaluation of otc monographs and otc monograph order requests, including-- ``(i) orders proposing or finalizing applicable conditions of use for otc monograph drugs; ``(ii) orders affecting status regarding general recognition of safety and effectiveness of an otc monograph ingredient or combination of ingredients under specified conditions of use; ``(iii) all otc monograph drug development and review activities, including intra-agency collaboration; ``(iv) regulation and policy development activities related to otc monograph drugs; ``(v) development of product standards for products subject to review and evaluation; ``(vi) meetings referred to in section 505g(i); ``(vii) review of labeling prior to issuance of orders related to otc monograph drugs or conditions of use; and ``(viii) regulatory science activities related to otc monograph drugs. ``(b) inspections related to otc monograph drugs. ``(c) monitoring of clinical and other research conducted in connection with otc monograph drugs. ``(d) safety activities with respect to otc monograph drugs, including-- ``(i) collecting, developing, and reviewing safety information on otc monograph drugs, including adverse event reports; ``(ii) developing and using improved adverse event data- collection systems, including information technology systems; and ``(iii) developing and using improved analytical tools to assess potential safety risks, including access to external databases. ``(e) other activities necessary for implementation of section 505g. ``(7) the term `otc monograph order request' means a request for an order submitted under section 505g(b)(5). ``(8) the term `tier 1 otc monograph order request' means any otc monograph order request not determined to be a tier 2 otc monograph order request. ``(9)(a) the term `tier 2 otc monograph order request' means, subject to subparagraph (b), an otc monograph order request for-- ``(i) the reordering of existing information in the drug facts label of an otc monograph drug; ``(ii) the addition of information to the other information section of the drug facts label of an otc monograph drug, as limited by section 201.66(c)(7) of title 21, code of federal regulations (or any successor regulations); ``(iii) modification to the directions for use section of the drug facts label of an otc monograph drug, if such changes conform to changes made pursuant to section 505g(c)(3)(a); ``(iv) the standardization of the concentration or dose of a specific finalized ingredient within a particular finalized monograph; ``(v) a change to ingredient nomenclature to align with nomenclature of a standards-setting organization; or ``(vi) addition of an interchangeable term in accordance with section 330.1 of title 21, code of federal regulations (or any successor regulations). ``(b) the secretary may, based on program implementation experience or other factors found appropriate by the secretary, characterize any otc monograph order request as a tier 2 otc monograph order request (including recharacterizing a request from tier 1 to tier 2) and publish such determination in a proposed order issued pursuant to section 505g. ``(10)(a) the term `otc monograph drug facility' means a foreign or domestic business or other entity that-- ``(i) is-- ``(i) under one management, either direct or indirect; and ``(ii) at one geographic location or address engaged in manufacturing or processing the finished dosage form of an otc monograph drug; ``(ii) includes a finished dosage form manufacturer facility in a contractual relationship with the sponsor of one or more otc monograph drugs to manufacture or process such drugs; and ``(iii) does not include a business or other entity whose only manufacturing or processing activities are one or more of the following: production of clinical research supplies, testing, or placement of outer packaging on packages containing multiple products, for such purposes as creating multipacks, when each monograph drug product contained within the overpackaging is already in a final packaged form prior to placement in the outer overpackaging. ``(b) for purposes of subparagraph (a)(i)(ii), separate buildings or locations within close proximity are considered to be at one geographic location or address if the activities conducted in such buildings or locations are-- ``(i) closely related to the same business enterprise; ``(ii) under the supervision of the same local management; and ``(iii) under a single fda establishment identifier and capable of being inspected by the food and drug administration during a single inspection. ``(c) if a business or other entity would meet criteria specified in subparagraph (a), but for being under multiple management, the business or other entity is deemed to constitute multiple facilities, one per management entity, for purposes of this paragraph. ``(11) the term `otc monograph drug meeting' means any meeting regarding the content of a proposed otc monograph order request. ``(12) the term `person' includes an affiliate of a person. ``(13) the terms `requestor' and `sponsor' have the meanings given such terms in section 505g. ``sec. 744m. authority to assess and use otc monograph fees. ``(a) types of fees.--beginning with fiscal year 2021, the secretary shall assess and collect fees in accordance with this section as follows: ``(1) facility fee.-- ``(a) in general.--each person that owns a facility identified as an otc monograph drug facility on december 31 of the fiscal year or at any time during the preceding 12- month period shall be assessed an annual fee for each such facility as determined under subsection (c). ``(b) exceptions.-- ``(i) facilities that cease activities.--a fee shall not be assessed under subparagraph (a) if the identified otc monograph drug facility-- ``(i) has ceased all activities related to otc monograph drugs prior to december 31 of the year immediately preceding the applicable fiscal year; and ``(ii) has updated its registration to reflect such change under the requirements for drug establishment registration set forth in section 510. ``(ii) contract manufacturing organizations.--the amount of the fee for a contract manufacturing organization facility shall be equal to two-thirds of the amount of the fee for an otc monograph drug facility that is not a contract manufacturing organization facility. ``(c) amount.--the amount of fees established under subparagraph (a) shall be established under subsection (c). ``(d) due date.-- ``(i) for first program year.--for fiscal year 2021, the facility fees required under subparagraph (a) shall be due on the later of-- ``(i) the first business day of july of 2020; or ``(ii) 45 calendar days after publication of the federal register notice provided for under subsection (c)(4)(a). ``(ii) subsequent fiscal years.--for each fiscal year after fiscal year 2021, the facility fees required under subparagraph (a) shall be due on the later of-- ``(i) the first business day of june of such year; or ``(ii) the first business day after the enactment of an appropriations act providing for the collection and obligation of fees under this section for such year. ``(2) otc monograph order request fee.-- ``(a) in general.--each person that submits an otc monograph order request shall be subject to a fee for an otc monograph order request. the amount of such fee shall be-- ``(i) for a tier 1 otc monograph order request, $500,000, adjusted for inflation for the fiscal year (as determined under subsection (c)(1)(b)); and ``(ii) for a tier 2 otc monograph order request, $100,000, adjusted for inflation for the fiscal year (as determined under subsection (c)(1)(b)). ``(b) due date.--the otc monograph order request fees required under subparagraph (a) shall be due on the date of submission of the otc monograph order request. ``(c) exception for certain safety changes.--a person who is named as the requestor in an otc monograph order shall not be subject to a fee under subparagraph (a) if the secretary finds that the otc monograph order request seeks to change the drug facts labeling of an otc monograph drug in a way that would add to or strengthen-- ``(i) a contraindication, warning, or precaution; ``(ii) a statement about risk associated with misuse or abuse; or ``(iii) an instruction about dosage and administration that is intended to increase the safe use of the otc monograph drug. ``(d) refund of fee if order request is recategorized as a tier 2 otc monograph order request.--if the secretary determines that an otc monograph request initially characterized as tier 1 shall be re-characterized as a tier 2 otc monograph order request, and the requestor has paid a tier 1 fee in accordance with subparagraph (a)(i), the secretary shall refund the requestor the difference between the tier 1 and tier 2 fees determined under subparagraphs (a)(i) and (a)(ii), respectively. ``(e) refund of fee if order request refused for filing or withdrawn before filing.--the secretary shall refund 75 percent of the fee paid under subparagraph (b) for any order request which is refused for filing or was withdrawn before being accepted or refused for filing. ``(f) fees for order requests previously refused for filing or withdrawn before filing.--an otc monograph order request that was submitted but was refused for filing, or was withdrawn before being accepted or refused for filing, shall be subject to the full fee under subparagraph (a) upon being resubmitted or filed over protest. ``(g) refund of fee if order request withdrawn.--if an order request is withdrawn after the order request was filed, the secretary may refund the fee or a portion of the fee if no substantial work was performed on the order request after the application was filed. the secretary shall have the sole discretion to refund a fee or a portion of the fee under this subparagraph. a determination by the secretary concerning a refund under this subparagraph shall not be reviewable. ``(3) refunds.-- ``(a) in general.--other than refunds provided pursuant to any of subparagraphs (d) through (g) of paragraph (2), the secretary shall not refund any fee paid under paragraph (1) except as provided in subparagraph (b). ``(b) disputes concerning fees.--to qualify for the return of a fee claimed to have been paid in error under paragraph (1) or (2), a person [[page h1779]] shall submit to the secretary a written request justifying such return within 180 calendar days after such fee was paid. ``(4) notice.--within the timeframe specified in subsection (c), the secretary shall publish in the federal register the amount of the fees under paragraph (1) for such fiscal year. ``(b) fee revenue amounts.-- ``(1) fiscal year 2021.--for fiscal year 2021, fees under subsection (a)(1) shall be established to generate a total facility fee revenue amount equal to the sum of-- ``(a) the annual base revenue for fiscal year 2021 (as determined under paragraph (3)); ``(b) the dollar amount equal to the operating reserve adjustment for the fiscal year, if applicable (as determined under subsection (c)(2)); and ``(c) additional direct cost adjustments (as determined under subsection (c)(3)). ``(2) subsequent fiscal years.--for each of the fiscal years 2022 through 2025, fees under subsection (a)(1) shall be established to generate a total facility fee revenue amount equal to the sum of-- ``(a) the annual base revenue for the fiscal year (as determined under paragraph (3)); ``(b) the dollar amount equal to the inflation adjustment for the fiscal year (as determined under subsection (c)(1)); ``(c) the dollar amount equal to the operating reserve adjustment for the fiscal year, if applicable (as determined under subsection (c)(2)); ``(d) additional direct cost adjustments (as determined under subsection (c)(3)); and ``(e) additional dollar amounts for each fiscal year as follows: ``(i) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2022. ``(ii) $6,000,000 for fiscal year 2023. ``(iii) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2024. ``(iv) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2025. ``(3) annual base revenue.--for purposes of paragraphs (1)(a) and (2)(a), the dollar amount of the annual base revenue for a fiscal year shall be-- ``(a) for fiscal year 2021, $8,000,000; and ``(b) for fiscal years 2022 through 2025, the dollar amount of the total revenue amount established under this subsection for the previous fiscal year, not including any adjustments made under subsection (c)(2) or (c)(3). ``(c) adjustments; annual fee setting.-- ``(1) inflation adjustment.-- ``(a) in general.--for purposes of subsection (b)(2)(b), the dollar amount of the inflation adjustment to the annual base revenue for fiscal year 2022 and each subsequent fiscal year shall be equal to the product of-- ``(i) such annual base revenue for the fiscal year under subsection (b)(2); and ``(ii) the inflation adjustment percentage under subparagraph (c). ``(b) otc monograph order request fees.--for purposes of subsection (a)(2), the dollar amount of the inflation adjustment to the fee for otc monograph order requests for fiscal year 2022 and each subsequent fiscal year shall be equal to the product of-- ``(i) the applicable fee under subsection (a)(2) for the preceding fiscal year; and ``(ii) the inflation adjustment percentage under subparagraph (c). ``(c) inflation adjustment percentage.--the inflation adjustment percentage under this subparagraph for a fiscal year is equal to-- ``(i) for each of fiscal years 2022 and 2023, the average annual percent change that occurred in the consumer price index for urban consumers (washington-baltimore, dc-md-va-wv; not seasonally adjusted; all items; annual index) for the first 3 years of the preceding 4 years of available data; and ``(ii) for each of fiscal years 2024 and 2025, the sum of-- ``(i) the average annual percent change in the cost, per full-time equivalent position of the food and drug administration, of all personnel compensation and benefits paid with respect to such positions for the first 3 years of the preceding 4 fiscal years, multiplied by the proportion of personnel compensation and benefits costs to total costs of otc monograph drug activities for the first 3 years of the preceding 4 fiscal years; and ``(ii) the average annual percent change that occurred in the consumer price index for urban consumers (washington- baltimore, dc-md-va-wv; not seasonally adjusted; all items; annual index) for the first 3 years of the preceding 4 years of available data multiplied by the proportion of all costs other than personnel compensation and benefits costs to total costs of otc monograph drug activities for the first 3 years of the preceding 4 fiscal years. ``(2) operating reserve adjustment.-- ``(a) in general.--for fiscal year 2021 and subsequent fiscal years, for purposes of subsections (b)(1)(b) and (b)(2)(c), the secretary may, in addition to adjustments under paragraph (1), further increase the fee revenue and fees if such an adjustment is necessary to provide operating reserves of carryover user fees for otc monograph drug activities for not more than the number of weeks specified in subparagraph (b). ``(b) number of weeks.--the number of weeks specified in this subparagraph is-- ``(i) 3 weeks for fiscal year 2021; ``(ii) 7 weeks for fiscal year 2022; ``(iii) 10 weeks for fiscal year 2023; ``(iv) 10 weeks for fiscal year 2024; and ``(v) 10 weeks for fiscal year 2025. ``(c) decrease.--if the secretary has carryover balances for such process in excess of 10 weeks of the operating reserves referred to in subparagraph (a), the secretary shall decrease the fee revenue and fees referred to in such subparagraph to provide for not more than 10 weeks of such operating reserves. ``(d) rationale for adjustment.--if an adjustment under this paragraph is made, the rationale for the amount of the increase or decrease (as applicable) in fee revenue and fees shall be contained in the annual federal register notice under paragraph (4) establishing fee revenue and fees for the fiscal year involved. ``(3) additional direct cost adjustment.--the secretary shall, in addition to adjustments under paragraphs (1) and (2), further increase the fee revenue and fees for purposes of subsection (b)(2)(d) by an amount equal to-- ``(a) $14,000,000 for fiscal year 2021; ``(b) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2022; ``(c) $4,000,000 for fiscal year 2023; ``(d) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2024; and ``(e) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2025. ``(4) annual fee setting.-- ``(a) fiscal year 2021.--the secretary shall, not later than the second monday in may of 2020-- ``(i) establish otc monograph drug facility fees for fiscal year 2021 under subsection (a), based on the revenue amount for such year under subsection (b) and the adjustments provided under this subsection; and ``(ii) publish fee revenue, facility fees, and otc monograph order requests in the federal register. ``(b) subsequent fiscal years.--the secretary shall, for each fiscal year that begins after september 30, 2021, not later than the second monday in march that precedes such fiscal year-- ``(i) establish for such fiscal year, based on the revenue amounts under subsection (b) and the adjustments provided under this subsection-- ``(i) otc monograph drug facility fees under subsection (a)(1); and ``(ii) otc monograph order request fees under subsection (a)(2); and ``(ii) publish such fee revenue amounts, facility fees, and otc monograph order request fees in the federal register. ``(d) identification of facilities.--each person that owns an otc monograph drug facility shall submit to the secretary the information required under this subsection each year. such information shall, for each fiscal year-- ``(1) be submitted as part of the requirements for drug establishment registration set forth in section 510; and ``(2) include for each such facility, at a minimum, identification of the facility's business operation as that of an otc monograph drug facility. ``(e) effect of failure to pay fees.-- ``(1) otc monograph drug facility fee.-- ``(a) in general.--failure to pay the fee under subsection (a)(1) within 20 calendar days of the due date as specified in subparagraph (d) of such subsection shall result in the following: ``(i) the secretary shall place the facility on a publicly available arrears list. ``(ii) all otc monograph drugs manufactured in such a facility or containing an ingredient manufactured in such a facility shall be deemed misbranded under section 502(ff). ``(b) application of penalties.--the penalties under this paragraph shall apply until the fee established by subsection (a)(1) is paid. ``(2) order requests.--an otc monograph order request submitted by a person subject to fees under subsection (a) shall be considered incomplete and shall not be accepted for filing by the secretary until all fees owed by such person under this section have been paid. ``(3) meetings.--a person subject to fees under this section shall be considered ineligible for otc monograph drug meetings until all such fees owed by such person have been paid. ``(f) crediting and availability of fees.-- ``(1) in general.--fees authorized under subsection (a) shall be collected and available for obligation only to the extent and in the amount provided in advance in appropriations acts. such fees are authorized to remain available until expended. such sums as may be necessary may be transferred from the food and drug administration salaries and expenses appropriation account without fiscal year limitation to such appropriation account for salaries and expenses with such fiscal year limitation. the sums transferred shall be available solely for otc monograph drug activities. ``(2) collections and appropriation acts.-- ``(a) in general.--subject to subparagraph (c), the fees authorized by this section shall be collected and available in each fiscal year in an amount not to exceed the amount specified in appropriation acts, or otherwise made available for obligation, for such fiscal year. ``(b) use of fees and limitation.--the fees authorized by this section shall be available to defray increases in the costs of the resources allocated for otc monograph drug activities (including increases in such costs for an additional number of full-time equivalent positions in the department of health and human services to be engaged in such activities), only if the secretary allocates for such purpose an amount for such fiscal year (excluding amounts from fees collected under this section) no less than $12,000,000, multiplied by the adjustment factor applicable to the fiscal year involved under subsection (c)(1). ``(c) compliance.--the secretary shall be considered to have met the requirements of subparagraph (b) in any fiscal year if the costs funded by appropriations and allocated for otc monograph drug activities are not more than 15 percent below the level specified in such subparagraph. ``(d) provision for early payments in subsequent years.-- payment of fees authorized under this section for a fiscal year (after fiscal year 2021), prior to the due date for such fees, may be accepted by the secretary in accordance with authority provided in advance in a prior year appropriations act. ``(3) authorization of appropriations.--for each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2025, there is authorized to be appropriated for fees under this section an amount equal to the total [[page h1780]] amount of fees assessed for such fiscal year under this section. ``(g) collection of unpaid fees.--in any case where the secretary does not receive payment of a fee assessed under subsection (a) within 30 calendar days after it is due, such fee shall be treated as a claim of the united states government subject to subchapter ii of chapter 37 of title 31, united states code. ``(h) construction.--this section may not be construed to require that the number of full-time equivalent positions in the department of health and human services, for officers, employers, and advisory committees not engaged in otc monograph drug activities, be reduced to offset the number of officers, employees, and advisory committees so engaged. ``sec. 744n. reauthorization; reporting requirements. ``(a) performance report.--beginning with fiscal year 2021, and not later than 120 calendar days after the end of each fiscal year thereafter for which fees are collected under this part, the secretary shall prepare and submit to the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives and the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate a report concerning the progress of the food and drug administration in achieving the goals identified in the letters described in section 3861(b) of the cares act during such fiscal year and the future plans of the food and drug administration for meeting such goals. ``(b) fiscal report.--not later than 120 calendar days after the end of fiscal year 2021 and each subsequent fiscal year for which fees are collected under this part, the secretary shall prepare and submit to the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives and the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate a report on the implementation of the authority for such fees during such fiscal year and the use, by the food and drug administration, of the fees collected for such fiscal year. ``(c) public availability.--the secretary shall make the reports required under subsections (a) and (b) available to the public on the internet website of the food and drug administration. ``(d) reauthorization.-- ``(1) consultation.--in developing recommendations to present to the congress with respect to the goals described in subsection (a), and plans for meeting the goals, for otc monograph drug activities for the first 5 fiscal years after fiscal year 2025, and for the reauthorization of this part for such fiscal years, the secretary shall consult with-- ``(a) the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives; ``(b) the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate; ``(c) scientific and academic experts; ``(d) health care professionals; ``(e) representatives of patient and consumer advocacy groups; and ``(f) the regulated industry. ``(2) public review of recommendations.--after negotiations with the regulated industry, the secretary shall-- ``(a) present the recommendations developed under paragraph (1) to the congressional committees specified in such paragraph; ``(b) publish such recommendations in the federal register; ``(c) provide for a period of 30 calendar days for the public to provide written comments on such recommendations; ``(d) hold a meeting at which the public may present its views on such recommendations; and ``(e) after consideration of such public views and comments, revise such recommendations as necessary. ``(3) transmittal of recommendations.--not later than january 15, 2025, the secretary shall transmit to the congress the revised recommendations under paragraph (2), a summary of the views and comments received under such paragraph, and any changes made to the recommendations in response to such views and comments.''. title iv--economic stabilization and assistance to severely distressed sectors of the united states economy subtitle a--coronavirus economic stabilization act of 2020 sec. 4001. short title. this subtitle may be cited as the ``coronavirus economic stabilization act of 2020''. sec. 4002. definitions. in this subtitle: (1) air carrier.--the term ``air carrier'' has the meaning such term has under section 40102 of title 49, united states code. (2) coronavirus.--the term ``coronavirus'' means sars-cov-2 or another coronavirus with pandemic potential. (3) covered loss.--the term ``covered loss'' includes losses incurred directly or indirectly as a result of coronavirus, as determined by the secretary. (4) eligible business.--the term ``eligible business'' means-- (a) an air carrier; or (b) a united states business that has not otherwise received adequate economic relief in the form of loans or loan guarantees provided under this act. (5) employee.--except where the context otherwise requires, the term ``employee''-- (a) has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the national labor relations act (29 u.s.c. 152); and (b) includes any individual employed by an employer subject to the railway labor act (45 u.s.c. 151 et seq.). (6) equity security; exchange.--the terms ``equity security'' and ``exchange'' have the meanings given the terms in section 3(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (15 u.s.c. 78c(a)). (7) municipality.--the term ``municipality'' includes-- (a) a political subdivision of a state, and (b) an instrumentality of a municipality, a state, or a political subdivision of a state. (8) national securities exchange.--the term ``national securities exchange'' means an exchange registered as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the securities exchange act of 1934 (15 u.s.c. 78f). (9) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of the treasury, or the designee of the secretary of the treasury. (10) state.--the term ``state'' means-- (a) any of the several states; (b) the district of columbia; (c) any of the territories and possessions of the united states; (d) any bi-state or multi-state entity; and (e) any indian tribe. sec. 4003. emergency relief and taxpayer protections. (a) in general.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, to provide liquidity to eligible businesses, states, and municipalities related to losses incurred as a result of coronavirus, the secretary is authorized to make loans, loan guarantees, and other investments in support of eligible businesses, states, and municipalities that do not, in the aggregate, exceed $500,000,000,000 and provide the subsidy amounts necessary for such loans, loan guarantees, and other investments in accordance with the provisions of the federal credit reform act of 1990 (2 u.s.c. 661 et seq.). (b) loans, loan guarantees, and other investments.--loans, loan guarantees, and other investments made pursuant to subsection (a) shall be made available as follows: (1) not more than $25,000,000,000 shall be available to make loans and loan guarantees for passenger air carriers, eligible businesses that are certified under part 145 of title 14, code of federal regulations, and approved to perform inspection, repair, replace, or overhaul services, and ticket agents (as defined in section 40102 of title 49, united states code). (2) not more than $4,000,000,000 shall be available to make loans and loan guarantees for cargo air carriers. (3) not more than $17,000,000,000 shall be available to make loans and loan guarantees for businesses critical to maintaining national security. (4) not more than the sum of $454,000,000,000 and any amounts available under paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) that are not used as provided under those paragraphs shall be available to make loans and loan guarantees to, and other investments in, programs or facilities established by the board of governors of the federal reserve system for the purpose of providing liquidity to the financial system that supports lending to eligible businesses, states, or municipalities by-- (a) purchasing obligations or other interests directly from issuers of such obligations or other interests; (b) purchasing obligations or other interests in secondary markets or otherwise; or (c) making loans, including loans or other advances secured by collateral. (c) terms and conditions.-- (1) in general.-- (a) forms; terms and conditions.--a loan, loan guarantee, or other investment by the secretary shall be made under this section in such form and on such terms and conditions and contain such covenants, representations, warranties, and requirements (including requirements for audits) as the secretary determines appropriate. any loans made by the secretary under this section shall be at a rate determined by the secretary based on the risk and the current average yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the united states of comparable maturity. (b) procedures.--as soon as practicable, but in no case later than 10 days after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary shall publish procedures for application and minimum requirements, which may be supplemented by the secretary in the secretary's discretion, for making loans, loan guarantees, or other investments under paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) of subsection (b) . (2) loans and loan guarantees .--the secretary may enter into agreements to make loans or loan guarantees to 1 or more eligible businesses under paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) of subsection (b) if the secretary determines that, in the secretary's discretion-- (a) the applicant is an eligible business for which credit is not reasonably available at the time of the transaction; (b) the intended obligation by the applicant is prudently incurred; (c) the loan or loan guarantee is sufficiently secured or is made at a rate that-- (i) reflects the risk of the loan or loan guarantee; and (ii) is to the extent practicable, not less than an interest rate based on market conditions for comparable obligations prevalent prior to the outbreak of the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19); (d) the duration of the loan or loan guarantee is as short as practicable and in any case not longer than 5 years; (e) the agreement provides that, until the date 12 months after the date the loan or loan guarantee is no longer outstanding, neither the eligible business nor any affiliate of the eligible business may purchase an equity security that is listed on a national securities exchange of the eligible business or any parent company of the eligible business, except to the extent required under a contractual obligation in effect as of the date of enactment of this act; [[page h1781]] (f) the agreement provides that, until the date 12 months after the date the loan or loan guarantee is no longer outstanding, the eligible business shall not pay dividends or make other capital distributions with respect to the common stock of the eligible business; (g) the agreement provides that, until september 30, 2020, the eligible business shall maintain its employment levels as of march 24, 2020, to the extent practicable, and in any case shall not reduce its employment levels by more than 10 percent from the levels on such date; (h) the agreement includes a certification by the eligible business that it is created or organized in the united states or under the laws of the united states and has significant operations in and a majority of its employees based in the united states; and (i) for purposes of a loan or loan guarantee under paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b), the eligible business must have incurred or is expected to incur covered losses such that the continued operations of the business are jeopardized, as determined by the secretary. (3) federal reserve programs or facilities.-- (a) terms and conditions.-- (i) definition.--in this paragraph, the term ``direct loan'' means a loan under a bilateral loan agreement that is -- (i) entered into directly with an eligible business as borrower; and (ii) not part of a syndicated loan, a loan originated by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business, or a securities or capital markets transaction. (ii) restrictions.--the secretary may make a loan, loan guarantee, or other investment under subsection (b)(4) as part of a program or facility that provides direct loans only if the applicable eligible businesses agree-- (i) until the date 12 months after the date on which the direct loan is no longer outstanding, not to repurchase an equity security that is listed on a national securities exchange of the eligible business or any parent company of the eligible business while the direct loan is outstanding, except to the extent required under a contractual obligation that is in effect as of the date of enactment of this act; (ii) until the date 12 months after the date on which the direct loan is no longer outstanding, not to pay dividends or make other capital distributions with respect to the common stock of the eligible business; and (iii) to comply with the limitations on compensation set forth in section 4004. (iii) waiver.--the secretary may waive the requirement under clause (ii) with respect to any program or facility upon a determination that such waiver is necessary to protect the interests of the federal government. if the secretary exercises a waiver under this clause, the secretary shall make himself available to testify before the committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs of the senate and the committee on financial services of the house of representatives regarding the reasons for the waiver. (b) federal reserve act taxpayer protections and other requirements apply.--for the avoidance of doubt, any applicable requirements under section 13(3) of the federal reserve act (12 u.s.c. 343(3)), including requirements relating to loan collateralization, taxpayer protection, and borrower solvency, shall apply with respect to any program or facility described in subsection (b)(4). (c) united states businesses.--a program or facility in which the secretary makes a loan, loan guarantee, or other investment under subsection (b)(4) shall only purchase obligations or other interests (other than securities that are based on an index or that are based on a diversified pool of securities) from, or make loans or other advances to, businesses that are created or organized in the united states or under the laws of the united states and that have significant operations in and a majority of its employees based in the united states. (d) assistance for mid-sized businesses.-- (i) in general.--without limiting the terms and conditions of the programs and facilities that the secretary may otherwise provide financial assistance to under subsection (b)(4), the secretary shall endeavor to seek the implementation of a program or facility described in subsection (b)(4) that provides financing to banks and other lenders that make direct loans to eligible businesses including, to the extent practicable, nonprofit organizations, with between 500 and 10,000 employees, with such direct loans being subject to an annualized interest rate that is not higher than 2 percent per annum. for the first 6 months after any such direct loan is made, or for such longer period as the secretary may determine in his discretion, no principal or interest shall be due and payable. any eligible borrower applying for a direct loan under this program shall make a good-faith certification that-- (i) the uncertainty of economic conditions as of the date of the application makes necessary the loan request to support the ongoing operations of the recipient; (ii) the funds it receives will be used to retain at least 90 percent of the recipient's workforce, at full compensation and benefits, until september 30, 2020; (iii) the recipient intends to restore not less than 90 percent of the workforce of the recipient that existed as of february 1, 2020, and to restore all compensation and benefits to the workers of the recipient no later than 4 months after the termination date of the public health emergency declared by the secretary of health and human services on january 31, 2020, under section 319 of the public health services act (42 u.s.c. 247d) in response to covid-19; (iv) the recipient is an entity or business that is domiciled in the united states with significant operations and employees located in the united states; (v) the recipient is not a debtor in a bankruptcy proceeding; (vi) the recipient is created or organized in the united states or under the laws of the united states and has significant operations in and a majority of its employees based in the united states; (vii) the recipient will not pay dividends with respect to the common stock of the eligible business, or repurchase an equity security that is listed on a national securities exchange of the recipient or any parent company of the recipient while the direct loan is outstanding, except to the extent required under a contractual obligation that is in effect as of the date of enactment of this act; (viii) the recipient will not outsource or offshore jobs for the term of the loan and 2 years after completing repayment of the loan; (ix) the recipient will not abrogate existing collective bargaining agreements for the term of the loan and 2 years after completing repayment of the loan; and (x) that the recipient will remain neutral in any union organizing effort for the term of the loan. (ii) main street lending program.--nothing in this subparagraph shall limit the discretion of the board of governors of the federal reserve system to establish a main street lending program or other similar program or facility that supports lending to small and mid-sized businesses on such terms and conditions as the board may set consistent with section 13(3) of the federal reserve act (12 u.s.c. 343(3)), including any such program in which the secretary makes a loan, loan guarantee, or other investment under subsection (b)(4). (e) government participants.--the secretary shall endeavor to seek the implementation of a program or facility in accordance with subsection (b)(4) that provides liquidity to the financial system that supports lending to states and municipalities. (d) financial protection of government.-- (1) warrant or senior debt instrument.--the secretary may not issue a loan to, or a loan guarantee for, an eligible business under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (b) unless-- (a)(i) the eligible business has issued securities that are traded on a national securities exchange; and (ii) the secretary receives a warrant or equity interest in the eligible business; or (b) in the case of any eligible business other than an eligible business described in subparagraph (a), the secretary receives, in the discretion of the secretary-- (i) a warrant or equity interest in the eligible business; or (ii) a senior debt instrument issued by the eligible business. (2) terms and conditions.--the terms and conditions of any warrant, equity interest, or senior debt instrument received under paragraph (1) shall be set by the secretary and shall meet the following requirements: (a) purposes.--such terms and conditions shall be designed to provide for a reasonable participation by the secretary, for the benefit of taxpayers, in equity appreciation in the case of a warrant or other equity interest, or a reasonable interest rate premium, in the case of a debt instrument. (b) authority to sell, exercise, or surrender.--for the primary benefit of taxpayers, the secretary may sell, exercise, or surrender a warrant or any senior debt instrument received under this subsection. the secretary shall not exercise voting power with respect to any shares of common stock acquired under this section. (c) sufficiency.--if the secretary determines that the eligible business cannot feasibly issue warrants or other equity interests as required by this subsection, the secretary may accept a senior debt instrument in an amount and on such terms as the secretary deems appropriate. (3) prohibition on loan forgiveness.--the principal amount of any obligation issued by an eligible business, state, or municipality under a program described in subsection (b) shall not be reduced through loan forgiveness. (e) deposit of proceeds.--amounts collected under subsection (b) shall be deposited in the following order of priority: (1) into the financing accounts established under section 505 of the federal credit reform act of 1990 (2 u.s.c. 661d) to implement this subtitle, up to an amount equal to the sum of-- (a) the amount transferred from the appropriation made under section 4027 to the financing accounts; and (b) the amount necessary to repay any amount lent from the treasury to such financing accounts. (2) after the deposits specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection have been made, into the federal old-age and survivors insurance trust fund established under section 201(a) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 401). (f) administrative provisions.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary may use not greater than $100,000,000 of the funds made available under section 4027 to pay costs and administrative expenses associated with the loans, loan guarantees, and other investments authorized under this section. the secretary is authorized to take such actions as the secretary deems necessary to carry out the authorities in this subtitle, including, without limitation-- (1) using direct hiring authority to hire employees to administer this subtitle; (2) entering into contracts, including contracts for services authorized by this subtitle; (3) establishing vehicles that are authorized, subject to supervision by the secretary, to purchase, hold, and sell assets and issue obligations; and (4) issuing such regulations and other guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the authorities or purposes of this subtitle. [[page h1782]] (g) financial agents.--the secretary is authorized to designate financial institutions, including but not limited to, depositories, brokers, dealers, and other institutions, as financial agents of the united states. such institutions shall-- (1) perform all reasonable duties the secretary determines necessary to respond to the coronavirus; and (2) be paid for such duties using appropriations available to the secretary to reimburse financial institutions in their capacity as financial agents of the united states. (h) loans made by or guaranteed by the department of the treasury treated as indebtedness for tax purposes.-- (1) in general.--any loan made by or guaranteed by the department of the treasury under this section shall be treated as indebtedness for purposes of the internal revenue code of 1986, shall be treated as issued for its stated principal amount, and stated interest on such loans shall be treated as qualified stated interest. (2) regulations or guidance.--the secretary of the treasury (or the secretary's delegate) shall prescribe such regulations or guidance as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of this section, including guidance providing that the acquisition of warrants, stock options, common or preferred stock or other equity under this section does not result in an ownership change for purposes of section 382 of the internal revenue code of 1986. sec. 4004. limitation on certain employee compensation. (a) in general.--the secretary may only enter into an agreement with an eligible business to make a loan or loan guarantee under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of section 4003(b) if such agreement provides that, during the period beginning on the date on which the agreement is executed and ending on the date that is 1 year after the date on which the loan or loan guarantee is no longer outstanding-- (1) no officer or employee of the eligible business whose total compensation exceeded $425,000 in calendar year 2019 (other than an employee whose compensation is determined through an existing collective bargaining agreement entered into prior to march 1, 2020)-- (a) will receive from the eligible business total compensation which exceeds, during any 12 consecutive months of such period, the total compensation received by the officer or employee from the eligible business in calendar year 2019; or (b) will receive from the eligible business severance pay or other benefits upon termination of employment with the eligible business which exceeds twice the maximum total compensation received by the officer or employee from the eligible business in calendar year 2019; and (2) no officer or employee of the eligible business whose total compensation exceeded $3,000,000 in calendar year 2019 may receive during any 12 consecutive months of such period total compensation in excess of the sum of-- (a) $3,000,000; and (b) 50 percent of the excess over $3,000,000 of the total compensation received by the officer or employee from the eligible business in calendar year 2019. (b) total compensation defined.--in this section, the term ``total compensation'' includes salary, bonuses, awards of stock, and other financial benefits provided by an eligible business to an officer or employee of the eligible business. sec. 4005. continuation of certain air service. the secretary of transportation is authorized to require, to the extent reasonable and practicable, an air carrier receiving loans and loan guarantees under section 4003 to maintain scheduled air transportation service as the secretary of transportation deems necessary to ensure services to any point served by that carrier before march 1, 2020. when considering whether to exercise the authority granted by this section, the secretary of transportation shall take into consideration the air transportation needs of small and remote communities and the need to maintain well- functioning health care and pharmaceutical supply chains, including for medical devices and supplies. the authority under this section, including any requirement issued by the secretary under this section, shall terminate on march 1, 2022. sec. 4006. coordination with secretary of transportation. in implementing this subtitle with respect to air carriers, the secretary shall coordinate with the secretary of transportation. sec. 4007. suspension of certain aviation excise taxes. (a) transportation by air.--in the case of any amount paid for transportation by air (including any amount treated as paid for transportation by air by reason of section 4261(e)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986) during the excise tax holiday period, no tax shall be imposed under section 4261 or 4271 of such code. the preceding sentence shall not apply to amounts paid on or before the date of the enactment of this act. (b) use of kerosene in commercial aviation.--in the case of kerosene used in commercial aviation (as defined in section 4083 of the internal revenue code of 1986) during the excise tax holiday period-- (1) no tax shall be imposed on such kerosene under-- (a) section 4041(c) of the internal revenue code of 1986, or (b) section 4081 of such code (other than at the rate provided in subsection (a)(2)(b) thereof), and (2) section 6427(l) of such code shall be applied-- (a) by treating such use as a nontaxable use, and (b) without regard to paragraph (4)(a)(ii) thereof. (c) excise tax holiday period.--for purposes of this section, the term ``excise tax holiday period'' means the period beginning after the date of the enactment of this section and ending before january 1, 2021. sec. 4008. debt guarantee authority. (a) section 1105 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (12 u.s.c. 5612) is amended-- (1) in subsection (f)-- (a) by inserting ``in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts'' after ``institutions''; and (b) by striking ``shall not'' and inserting ``may''; and (2) by adding at the end the following: ``(h) approval of guarantee program during the covid-19 crisis.-- ``(1) in general.--for purposes of the congressional joint resolution of approval provided for in subsections (c)(1) and (2) and (d), notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the federal deposit insurance corporation is approved upon enactment of this act to establish a program provided for in subsection (a), provided that any such program and any such guarantee shall terminate not later than december 31, 2020. ``(2) maximum amount.--any debt guarantee program authorized by this subsection shall include a maximum amount of outstanding debt that is guaranteed.''. (b) federal credit union transaction account guarantees.-- notwithstanding any other provision of law and in coordination with the federal deposit insurance corporation, the national credit union administration board may by a vote of the board increase to unlimited, or such lower amount as the board approves, the share insurance coverage provided by the national credit union share insurance fund on any noninterest-bearing transaction account in any federally insured credit union without exception, provided that any such increase shall terminate not later than december 31, 2020. sec. 4009. temporary government in the sunshine act relief. (a) in general.--except as provided in subsection (b), notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the chairman of the board of governors of the federal reserve system determines, in writing, that unusual and exigent circumstances exist, the board may conduct meetings without regard to the requirements of section 552b of title 5, united states code, during the period beginning on the date of enactment of this act and ending on the earlier of-- (1) the date on which the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease (covid-19) outbreak declared by the president on march 13, 2020 under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) terminates; or (2) december 31, 2020. (b) records.--the board of governors of the federal reserve system shall keep a record of all board votes and the reasons for such votes during the period described in subsection (a). sec. 4010. temporary hiring flexibility. (a) definition.--in this section, the term ``covered period'' means the period beginning on the date of enactment of this act and ending on the sooner of-- (1) the termination date of the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease (covid-19) outbreak declared by the president on march 13, 2020 under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.); or (2) december 31, 2020. (b) authority.-- during the covered period, the secretary of housing and urban development, the securities and exchange commission, and the commodity futures trading commission may, without regard to sections 3309 through 3318 of title 5, united states code, recruit and appoint candidates to fill temporary and term appointments within their respective agencies upon a determination that those expedited procedures are necessary and appropriate to enable the respective agencies to prevent, prepare for, or respond to covid-19. sec. 4011. temporary lending limit waiver. (a) in general.--section 5200 of the revised statutes of the united states (12 u.s.c. 84) is amended-- (1) in subsection (c)(7)-- (a) by inserting ``any nonbank financial company (as that term is defined in section 102 of the financial stability act of 2010 (12 u.s.c. 5311)),'' after ``loans or extensions of credit to''; and (b) by striking ``financial institution or to'' and inserting ``financial institution, or to''; and (2) in subsection (d), by adding at the end of paragraph (1) the following: ``the comptroller of the currency may, by order, exempt any transaction or series of transactions from the requirements of this section upon a finding by the comptroller that such exemption is in the public interest and consistent with the purposes of this section.''. (b) effective period.--this section, and the amendments made by this section, shall be effective during the period beginning on the date of enactment of this act and ending on the sooner of-- (1) the termination date of the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease (covid-19) outbreak declared by the president on march 13, 2020 under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.); or (2) december 31, 2020. sec. 4012. temporary relief for community banks. (a) definitions.--in this section-- (1) the term ``appropriate federal banking agency'' has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the economic growth, regulatory relief, and consumer protection act (12 u.s.c. 5365 note); and [[page h1783]] (2) the terms ``community bank leverage ratio'' and ``qualifying community bank'' have the meanings given the terms in section 201(a) of the economic growth, regulatory relief, and consumer protection act (12 u.s.c. 5371 note). (b) interim rule.-- (1) in general.--notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, the appropriate federal banking agencies shall issue an interim final rule that provides that, for the purposes of section 201 of the economic growth, regulatory relief, and consumer protection act (12 u.s.c. 5371 note)-- (a) the community bank leverage ratio shall be 8 percent; and (b) a qualifying community bank that falls below the community bank leverage ratio established under subparagraph (a) shall have a reasonable grace period to satisfy the community bank leverage ratio. (2) effective period.--the interim rule issued under paragraph (1) shall be effective during the period beginning on the date on which the appropriate federal banking agencies issue the rule and ending on the sooner of-- (a) the termination date of the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease (covid-19) outbreak declared by the president on march 13, 2020 under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.); or (b) december 31, 2020. (c) grace period.--during a grace period described in subsection (b)(1)(b), a qualifying community bank to which the grace period applies may continue to be treated as a qualifying community bank and shall be presumed to satisfy the capital and leverage requirements described in section 201(c) of the economic growth, regulatory relief, and consumer protection act (12 u.s.c. 5371 note). sec. 4013. temporary relief from troubled debt restructurings. (a) definitions.--in this section: (1) applicable period.--the term ``applicable period'' means the period beginning on march 1, 2020 and ending on the earlier of december 31, 2020, or the date that is 60 days after the date on which the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease (covid-19) outbreak declared by the president on march 13, 2020 under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) terminates. (2) appropriate federal banking agency.--the term ``appropriate federal banking agency''-- (a) has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the federal deposit insurance act (12 u.s.c. 1813); and (b) includes the national credit union administration. (b) suspension.-- (1) in general.--during the applicable period, a financial institution may elect to-- (a) suspend the requirements under united states generally accepted accounting principles for loan modifications related to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) pandemic that would otherwise be categorized as a troubled debt restructuring; and (b) suspend any determination of a loan modified as a result of the effects of the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid- 19) pandemic as being a troubled debt restructuring, including impairment for accounting purposes. (2) applicability.--any suspension under paragraph (1)-- (a) shall be applicable for the term of the loan modification, but solely with respect to any modification, including a forbearance arrangement, an interest rate modification, a repayment plan, and any other similar arrangement that defers or delays the payment of principal or interest, that occurs during the applicable period for a loan that was not more than 30 days past due as of december 31, 2019; and (b) shall not apply to any adverse impact on the credit of a borrower that is not related to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) pandemic. (c) deference.--the appropriate federal banking agency of the financial institution shall defer to the determination of the financial institution to make a suspension under this section. (d) records.--for modified loans for which suspensions under subsection (a) apply-- (1) financial institutions should continue to maintain records of the volume of loans involved; and (2) the appropriate federal banking agencies may collect data about such loans for supervisory purposes. sec. 4014. optional temporary relief from current expected credit losses. (a) definitions.--in this section: (1) appropriate federal banking agency.--the term ``appropriate federal banking agency''-- (a) has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the federal deposit insurance act (12 u.s.c. 1813); and (b) includes the national credit union administration. (2) insured depository institution.--the term ``insured depository institution''-- (a) has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the federal deposit insurance act (12 u.s.c. 1813); and (b) includes a credit union. (b) temporary relief from cecl standards.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, no insured depository institution, bank holding company, or any affiliate thereof shall be required to comply with the financial accounting standards board accounting standards update no. 2016-13 (``measurement of credit losses on financial instruments''), including the current expected credit losses methodology for estimating allowances for credit losses, during the period beginning on the date of enactment of this act and ending on the earlier of-- (1) the date on which the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease (covid-19) outbreak declared by the president on march 13, 2020 under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) terminates; or (2) december 31, 2020. sec. 4015. non-applicability of restrictions on esf during national emergency. (a) in general.--section 131 of the emergency economic stabilization act of 2008 (12 u.s.c. 5236) shall not apply during the period beginning on the date of enactment of this act and ending on december 31, 2020. any guarantee established as a result of the application of subsection (a) shall-- (1) be limited to a guarantee of the total value of a shareholder's account in a participating fund as of the close of business on the day before the announcement of the guarantee; and (2) terminate not later than december 31, 2020. (b) direct appropriation.--upon the expiration of the period described in subsection (a), there is appropriated, out of amounts in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be necessary to reimburse the fund established under section 5302(a)(1) of title 31, united states code, for any funds that are used for the treasury money market funds guaranty program for the united states money market mutual fund industry to the extent a claim payment made exceeds the balance of fees collected by the fund. sec. 4016. temporary credit union provisions. (a) in general.-- (1) definitions.--section 302(1) of the federal credit union act (12 u.s.c. 1795a(1)) is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by striking ``primarily serving natural persons''. (2) membership.--section 304(b)(2) of the federal credit union act (12 u.s.c. 1795c(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``all those credit unions'' and inserting ``such credit unions as the board may in its discretion determine''. (3) extensions of credit.--section 306(a)(1) of the federal credit union act (12 u.s.c. 1795e(a)(1)) is amended, in the second sentence, by striking ``the intent of which is to expand credit union portfolios'' and inserting ``without first having obtained evidence from the applicant that the applicant has made reasonable efforts to first use primary sources of liquidity of the applicant, including balance sheet and market funding sources, to address the liquidity needs of the applicant''. (4) powers of the board.--section 307(a)(4)(a) of the federal credit union act (12 u.s.c. 1795f(a)(4)(a)) is amended by inserting ``, provided that, the total face value of such obligations shall not exceed 16 times the subscribed capital stock and surplus of the facility for the period beginning on the date of enactment of the coronavirus economic stabilization act of 2020 and ending on december 31, 2020'' after ``facility''. (b) sunset.-- (1) in general.-- (a) definitions.--section 302(1) of the federal credit union act (12 u.s.c. 1795a(1)) is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by inserting ``primarily serving natural persons'' after ``credit unions''. (b) membership.--section 304(b)(2) of the federal credit union act (12 u.s.c. 1795c(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``such credit unions as the board may in its discretion determine'' and inserting ``all those credit unions''. (c) extensions of credit.--section 306(a)(1) of the federal credit union act (12 u.s.c. 1795e(a)(1)) is amended, in the second sentence, by striking ``without first having obtained evidence from the applicant that the applicant has made reasonable efforts to first use primary sources of liquidity of the applicant, including balance sheet and market funding sources, to address the liquidity needs of the applicant'' and inserting ``the intent of which is to expand credit union portfolios''. (2) effective date.--the amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect on december 31, 2020. sec. 4017. increasing access to materials necessary for national security and pandemic recovery. notwithstanding any other provision of law-- (1) during the 2-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this act, the requirements described in sections 303(a)(6)(c) and 304(e) of the defense production act of 1950 (50 u.s.c. 4533(a)(6)(c), 4534(e)) shall not apply; and (2) during the 1-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this act, the requirements described in sections 302(d)(1) and 303 (a)(6)(b) of the defense production act of 1950 (50 u.s.c. 4532(d)(1), 4533(a)(6)(b)) shall not apply. sec. 4018. special inspector general for pandemic recovery. (a) office of inspector general.--there is hereby established within the department of the treasury the office of the special inspector general for pandemic recovery. (b) appointment of inspector general; removal.-- (1) in general.--the head of the office of the special inspector general for pandemic recovery shall be the special inspector general for pandemic recovery (referred to in this section as the ``special inspector general''), who shall be appointed by the president, by and with the advice and consent of the senate. (2) nomination.--the nomination of the special inspector general shall be made on the basis of integrity and demonstrated ability in accounting, auditing, financial analysis, law, management analysis, public administration, or investigations. the nomination of an individual as special inspector general shall be made as soon as practicable after any loan, loan guarantee, or other investment is made under section 4003. (3) removal.--the special inspector general shall be removable from office in accordance [[page h1784]] with the provisions of section 3(b) of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.). (4) political activity.--for purposes of section 7324 of title 5, united states code, the special inspector general shall not be considered an employee who determines policies to be pursued by the united states in the nationwide administration of federal law. (5) basic pay.--the annual rate of basic pay of the special inspector general shall be the annual rate of basic pay for an inspector general under section 3(e) of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.). (c) duties.-- (1) in general.--it shall be the duty of the special inspector general to, in accordance with section 4(b)(1) of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.), conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations of the making, purchase, management, and sale of loans, loan guarantees, and other investments made by the secretary of the treasury under any program established by the secretary under this act, and the management by the secretary of any program established under this act, including by collecting and summarizing the following information: (a) a description of the categories of the loans, loan guarantees, and other investments made by the secretary. (b) a listing of the eligible businesses receiving loan, loan guarantees, and other investments made under each category described in subparagraph (a). (c) an explanation of the reasons the secretary determined it to be appropriate to make each loan or loan guarantee under this act, including a justification of the price paid for, and other financial terms associated with, the applicable transaction. (d) a listing of, and detailed biographical information with respect to, each person hired to manage or service each loan, loan guarantee, or other investment made under section 4003. (e) a current, as of the date on which the information is collected, estimate of the total amount of each loan, loan guarantee, and other investment made under this act that is outstanding, the amount of interest and fees accrued and received with respect to each loan or loan guarantee, the total amount of matured loans, the type and amount of collateral, if any, and any losses or gains, if any, recorded or accrued for each loan, loan guarantee, or other investment. (2) maintenance of systems.--the special inspector general shall establish, maintain, and oversee such systems, procedures, and controls as the special inspector general considers appropriate to discharge the duties of the special inspector general under paragraph (1). (3) additional duties and responsibilities.--in addition to the duties described in paragraphs (1) and (2), the special inspector general shall also have the duties and responsibilities of inspectors general under the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.). (d) powers and authorities.-- (1) in general.--in carrying out the duties of the special inspector general under subsection (c), the special inspector general shall have the authorities provided in section 6 of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.). (2) treatment of office.--the office of the special inspector general for pandemic recovery shall be considered to be an office described in section 6(f)(3) of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.) and shall be exempt from an initial determination by the attorney general under section 6(f)(2) of that act. (e) personnel, facilities, and other resources.-- (1) appointment of officers and employees.--the special inspector general may select, appoint, and employ such officers and employees as may be necessary for carrying out the duties of the special inspector general, subject to the provisions of title 5, united states code, governing appointments in the competitive service, and the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter iii of chapter 53 of that title, relating to classification and general schedule pay rates. (2) experts and consultants.--the special inspector general may obtain services as authorized under section 3109 of title 5, united states code, at daily rates not to exceed the equivalent rate prescribed for grade gs-15 of the general schedule by section 5332 of that title. (3) contracts.--the special inspector general may enter into contracts and other arrangements for audits, studies, analyses, and other services with public agencies and with private persons, and make such payments as may be necessary to carry out the duties of the inspector general. (4) requests for information.-- (a) in general.--upon request of the special inspector general for information or assistance from any department, agency, or other entity of the federal government, the head of that department, agency, or entity shall, to the extent practicable and not in contravention of any existing law, furnish that information or assistance to the special inspector general, or an authorized designee. (b) refusal to provide requested information.--whenever information or assistance requested by the special inspector general is, in the judgment of the special inspector general, unreasonably refused or not provided, the special inspector general shall report the circumstances to the appropriate committees of congress without delay. (f) reports.-- (1) quarterly reports.-- (a) in general.--not later than 60 days after the date on which the special inspector general is confirmed, and once every calendar quarter thereafter, the special inspector general shall submit to the appropriate committees of congress a report summarizing the activities of the special inspector general during the 3-month period ending on the date on which the special inspector general submits the report. (b) contents.--each report submitted under subparagraph (a) shall include, for the period covered by the report, a detailed statement of all loans, loan guarantees, other transactions, obligations, expenditures, and revenues associated with any program established by the secretary under section 4003, as well as the information collected under subsection (c)(1). (2) rule of construction.--nothing in this subsection may be construed to authorize the public disclosure of information that is-- (a) specifically prohibited from disclosure by any other provision of law; (b) specifically required by executive order to be protected from disclosure in the interest of national defense or national security or in the conduct of foreign affairs; or (c) a part of an ongoing criminal investigation. (g) funding.-- (1) in general.--of the amounts made available to the secretary under section 4027, $25,000,000 shall be made available to the special inspector general to carry out this section. (2) availability.--the amounts made available to the special inspector general under paragraph (1) shall remain available until expended. (h) termination.--the office of the special inspector general shall terminate on the date 5 years after the enactment of this act. (i) council of the inspectors general on integrity and efficiency.--the special inspector general shall be a member of the council of the inspectors general on integrity and efficiency established under section 11 of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.) until the date of termination of the office of the special inspector general. (j) corrective responses to audit problems.--the secretary shall-- (1) take action to address deficiencies identified by a report or investigation of the special inspector general; or (2) with respect to a deficiency identified under paragraph (1), certify to the committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs of the senate, the committee on finance of the senate, the committee on financial services of the house of representatives, and the committee on ways and means of the house of representatives that no action is necessary or appropriate. sec. 4019. conflicts of interest. (a) definitions.--in this section: (1) controlling interest.--the term ``controlling interest'' means owning, controlling, or holding not less than 20 percent, by vote or value, of the outstanding amount of any class of equity interest in an entity. (2) covered entity.--the term ``covered entity'' means an entity in which a covered individual directly or indirectly holds a controlling interest. for the purpose of determining whether an entity is a covered entity, the securities owned, controlled, or held by 2 or more individuals who are related as described in paragraph (3)(b) shall be aggregated. (3) covered individual.--the term ``covered individual'' means-- (a) the president, the vice president, the head of an executive department, or a member of congress; and (b) the spouse, child, son-in-law, or daughter-in-law, as determined under applicable common law, of an individual described in subparagraph (a). (4) executive department.--the term ``executive department'' has the meaning given the term in section 101 of title 5, united states code. (5) member of congress.--the term ``member of congress'' means a member of the senate or house of representatives, a delegate to the house of representatives, and the resident commissioner from puerto rico. (6) equity interest.--the term ``equity interest'' means-- (a) a share in an entity, without regard to whether the share is-- (i) transferable; or (ii) classified as stock or anything similar; (b) a capital or profit interest in a limited liability company or partnership; or (c) a warrant or right, other than a right to convert, to purchase, sell, or subscribe to a share or interest described in subparagraph (a) or (b), respectively. (b) prohibition.--notwithstanding any other provision of this subtitle, no covered entity may be eligible for any transaction described in section 4003. (c) requirement.--the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, or individuals performing similar functions, of an entity seeking to enter a transaction under section 4003 shall, before that transaction is approved, certify to the secretary and the board of governors of the federal reserve system that the entity is eligible to engage in that transaction, including that the entity is not a covered entity. sec. 4020. congressional oversight commission. (a) establishment.--there is hereby established the congressional oversight commission (hereafter in this section referred to as the ``oversight commission'') as an establishment in the legislative branch. (b) duties.-- (1) in general.--the oversight commission shall-- (a) conduct oversight of the implementation of this subtitle by the department of the treasury and the board of governors of the federal reserve system, including efforts of the department and the board to provide economic stability as a result of the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) pandemic of 2020; (b) submit to congress reports under paragraph (2); and (c) review the implementation of this subtitle by the federal government. (2) regular reports.-- [[page h1785]] (a) in general.--reports of the oversight commission shall include the following: (i) the use by the secretary and the board of governors of the federal reserve system of authority under this subtitle, including with respect to the use of contracting authority and administration of the provisions of this subtitle. (ii) the impact of loans, loan guarantees, and investments made under this subtitle on the financial well-being of the people of the united states and the united states economy, financial markets, and financial institutions. (iii) the extent to which the information made available on transactions under this subtitle has contributed to market transparency. (iv) the effectiveness of loans, loan guarantees, and investments made under this subtitle of minimizing long-term costs to the taxpayers and maximizing the benefits for taxpayers. (b) timing.--the reports required under this paragraph shall be submitted not later than 30 days after the first exercise by the secretary and the board of governors of the federal reserve system of the authority under this subtitle and every 30 days thereafter. (c) membership.-- (1) in general.--the oversight commission shall consist of 5 members as follows: (a) 1 member appointed by the speaker of the house of representatives. (b) 1 member appointed by the minority leader of the house of representatives. (c) 1 member appointed by the majority leader of the senate. (d) 1 member appointed by the minority leader of the senate. (e) 1 member appointed as chairperson by the speaker of the house of representatives and the majority leader of the senate, after consultation with the minority leader of the senate and the minority leader of the house of representatives (2) pay.--each member of the oversight commission shall be paid at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level i of the executive schedule for each day (including travel time) during which such member is engaged in the actual performance of duties vested in the oversight commission. (3) prohibition of compensation of federal employees.-- members of the oversight commission who are full-time officers or employees of the united states may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits by reason of their service on the oversight commission. (4) travel expenses.--each member shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions under subchapter i of chapter 57 of title 5, united states code. (5) quorum.--four members of the oversight commission shall constitute a quorum but a lesser number may hold hearings. (6) vacancies.--a vacancy on the oversight commission shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made. (7) meetings.--the oversight commission shall meet at the call of the chairperson or a majority of its members. (d) staff.-- (1) in general.--the oversight commission may appoint and fix the pay of any personnel as the oversight commission considers appropriate. (2) experts and consultants.--the oversight commission may procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, united states code. (3) staff of agencies.--upon request of the oversight commission, the head of any federal department or agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that department or agency to the oversight commission to assist it in carrying out its duties under the this subtitle. (e) powers.-- (1) hearings and evidence.--the oversight commission, or any subcommittee or member thereof, may, for the purpose of carrying out this section hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take testimony, and receive evidence as the oversight commission considers appropriate and may administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses appearing before it. (2) contracting.--the oversight commission may, to such extent and in such amounts as are provided in appropriation acts, enter into contracts to enable the oversight commission to discharge its duties under this section. (3) powers of members and agents.--any member or agent of the oversight commission may, if authorized by the oversight commission, take any action which the oversight commission is authorized to take by this section. (4) obtaining official data.--the oversight commission may secure directly from any department or agency of the united states information necessary to enable it to carry out this section. upon request of the chairperson of the oversight commission, the head of that department or agency shall furnish that information to the oversight commission. (5) reports.--the oversight commission shall receive and consider all reports required to be submitted to the oversight commission under this subtitle. (f) termination.--the oversight commission shall terminate on september 30, 2025. (g) funding for expenses.-- (1) authorization of appropriations.--there is authorized to be appropriated to the oversight commission such sums as may be necessary for any fiscal year, half of which shall be derived from the applicable account of the house of representatives, and half of which shall be derived from the contingent fund of the senate. (2) reimbursement of amounts.--an amount equal to the expenses of the oversight commission shall be promptly transferred by the secretary and the board of governors of the federal reserve system, from time to time upon the presentment of a statement of such expenses by the chairperson of the oversight commission, from funds made available to the secretary under this subtitle to the applicable fund of the house of representatives and the contingent fund of the senate, as appropriate, as reimbursement for amounts expended from such account and fund under paragraph (1). sec. 4021. credit protection during covid-19. section 623(a)(1) of the fair credit reporting act (15 u.s.c. 1681s-2(a)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(f) reporting information during covid-19 pandemic.-- ``(i) definitions.--in this subsection: ``(i) accommodation.--the term `accommodation' includes an agreement to defer 1 or more payments, make a partial payment, forbear any delinquent amounts, modify a loan or contract, or any other assistance or relief granted to a consumer who is affected by the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) pandemic during the covered period. ``(ii) covered period.--the term `covered period' means the period beginning on january 31, 2020 and ending on the later of-- ``(aa) 120 days after the date of enactment of this subparagraph; or ``(bb) 120 days after the date on which the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease (covid-19) outbreak declared by the president on march 13, 2020 under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) terminates. ``(ii) reporting.--except as provided in clause (iii), if a furnisher makes an accommodation with respect to 1 or more payments on a credit obligation or account of a consumer, and the consumer makes the payments or is not required to make 1 or more payments pursuant to the accommodation, the furnisher shall-- ``(i) report the credit obligation or account as current; or ``(ii) if the credit obligation or account was delinquent before the accommodation-- ``(aa) maintain the delinquent status during the period in which the accommodation is in effect; and ``(bb) if the consumer brings the credit obligation or account current during the period described in item (aa), report the credit obligation or account as current. ``(iii) exception.--clause (ii) shall not apply with respect to a credit obligation or account of a consumer that has been charged-off.''. sec. 4022. foreclosure moratorium and consumer right to request forbearance. (a) definitions.--in this section: (1) covid-19 emergency.--the term ``covid-19 emergency'' means the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease (covid-19) outbreak declared by the president on march 13, 2020 under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.). (2) federally backed mortgage loan.--the term ``federally backed mortgage loan'' includes any loan which is secured by a first or subordinate lien on residential real property (including individual units of condominiums and cooperatives) designed principally for the occupancy of from 1- to 4- families that is-- (a) insured by the federal housing administration under title ii of the national housing act (12 u.s.c. 1707 et seq.); (b) insured under section 255 of the national housing act (12 u.s.c. 1715z-20); (c) guaranteed under section 184 or 184a of the housing and community development act of 1992 (12 u.s.c. 1715z-13a, 1715z-13b); (d) guaranteed or insured by the department of veterans affairs; (e) guaranteed or insured by the department of agriculture; (f) made by the department of agriculture; or (g) purchased or securitized by the federal home loan mortgage corporation or the federal national mortgage association. (b) forbearance.-- (1) in general.--during the covered period, a borrower with a federally backed mortgage loan experiencing a financial hardship due, directly or indirectly, to the covid-19 emergency may request forbearance on the federally backed mortgage loan, regardless of delinquency status, by-- (a) submitting a request to the borrower's servicer; and (b) affirming that the borrower is experiencing a financial hardship during the covid-19 emergency. (2) duration of forbearance.--upon a request by a borrower for forbearance under paragraph (1), such forbearance shall be granted for up to 180 days, and shall be extended for an additional period of up to 180 days at the request of the borrower, provided that, at the borrower's request, either the initial or extended period of forbearance may be shortened. (3) accrual of interest or fees.--during a period of forbearance described in this subsection, no fees, penalties, or interest beyond the amounts scheduled or calculated as if the borrower made all contractual payments on time and in full under the terms of the mortgage contract, shall accrue on the borrower's account. (c) requirements for servicers.-- (1) in general.--upon receiving a request for forbearance from a borrower under subsection (b), the servicer shall with no additional documentation required other than the borrower's attestation to a financial hardship caused by the covid-19 emergency and with no fees, penalties, or interest (beyond the amounts scheduled or calculated as if the borrower made all contractual payments on time and in full under the terms of the mortgage contract) charged to the borrower in connection with the forbearance, provide the forbearance for up to 180 days, which may be extended for an additional period of up to 180 days at the request of the borrower, provided that, the borrower's request for an extension is made during the covered period, and, at the borrower's request, either the [[page h1786]] initial or extended period of forbearance may be shortened. (2) foreclosure moratorium.--except with respect to a vacant or abandoned property, a servicer of a federally backed mortgage loan may not initiate any judicial or non- judicial foreclosure process, move for a foreclosure judgment or order of sale, or execute a foreclosure-related eviction or foreclosure sale for not less than the 60-day period beginning on march 18, 2020. sec. 4023. forbearance of residential mortgage loan payments for multifamily properties with federally backed loans. (a) in general.--during the covered period, a multifamily borrower with a federally backed multifamily mortgage loan experiencing a financial hardship due, directly or indirectly, to the covid-19 emergency may request a forbearance under the terms set forth in this section. (b) request for relief.--a multifamily borrower with a federally backed multifamily mortgage loan that was current on its payments as of february 1, 2020, may submit an oral or written request for forbearance under subsection (a) to the borrower's servicer affirming that the multifamily borrower is experiencing a financial hardship during the covid-19 emergency. (c) forbearance period.-- (1) in general.--upon receipt of an oral or written request for forbearance from a multifamily borrower, a servicer shall-- (a) document the financial hardship; (b) provide the forbearance for up to 30 days; and (c) extend the forbearance for up to 2 additional 30 day periods upon the request of the borrower provided that, the borrower's request for an extension is made during the covered period, and, at least 15 days prior to the end of the forbearance period described under subparagraph (b). (2) right to discontinue.--a multifamily borrower shall have the option to discontinue the forbearance at any time. (d) renter protections during forbearance period.--a multifamily borrower that receives a forbearance under this section may not, for the duration of the forbearance-- (1) evict or initiate the eviction of a tenant from a dwelling unit located in or on the applicable property solely for nonpayment of rent or other fees or charges; or (2) charge any late fees, penalties, or other charges to a tenant described in paragraph (1) for late payment of rent. (e) notice.--a multifamily borrower that receives a forbearance under this section-- (1) may not require a tenant to vacate a dwelling unit located in or on the applicable property before the date that is 30 days after the date on which the borrower provides the tenant with a notice to vacate; and (2) may not issue a notice to vacate under paragraph (1) until after the expiration of the forbearance. (f) definitions.--in this section: (1) applicable property.--the term ``applicable property'', with respect to a federally backed multifamily mortgage loan, means the residential multifamily property against which the mortgage loan is secured by a lien. (2) federally backed multifamily mortgage loan.--the term ``federally backed multifamily mortgage loan'' includes any loan (other than temporary financing such as a construction loan) that-- (a) is secured by a first or subordinate lien on residential multifamily real property designed principally for the occupancy of 5 or more families, including any such secured loan, the proceeds of which are used to prepay or pay off an existing loan secured by the same property; and (b) is made in whole or in part, or insured, guaranteed, supplemented, or assisted in any way, by any officer or agency of the federal government or under or in connection with a housing or urban development program administered by the secretary of housing and urban development or a housing or related program administered by any other such officer or agency, or is purchased or securitized by the federal home loan mortgage corporation or the federal national mortgage association. (3) multifamily borrower.--the term ``multifamily borrower'' means a borrower of a residential mortgage loan that is secured by a lien against a property comprising 5 or more dwelling units. (4) covid-19 emergency.--the term ``covid-19 emergency'' means the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease (covid-19) outbreak declared by the president on march 13, 2020 under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.). (5) covered period.--the term ``covered period'' means the period beginning on the date of enactment of this act and ending on the sooner of-- (a) the termination date of the national emergency concerning the novel coronavirus disease (covid-19) outbreak declared by the president on march 13, 2020 under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.); or (b) december 31, 2020. sec. 4024. temporary moratorium on eviction filings. (a) definitions.--in this section: (1) covered dwelling.--the term ``covered dwelling'' means a dwelling that-- (a) is occupied by a tenant-- (i) pursuant to a residential lease; or (ii) without a lease or with a lease terminable under state law; and (b) is on or in a covered property. (2) covered property.--the term ``covered property'' means any property that-- (a) participates in-- (i) a covered housing program (as defined in section 41411(a) of the violence against women act of 1994 (34 u.s.c. 12491(a))); or (ii) the rural housing voucher program under section 542 of the housing act of 1949 (42 u.s.c. 1490r); or (b) has a-- (i) federally backed mortgage loan; or (ii) federally backed multifamily mortgage loan. (3) dwelling.--the term ``dwelling''-- (a) has the meaning given the term in section 802 of the fair housing act (42 u.s.c. 3602); and (b) includes houses and dwellings described in section 803(b) of such act (42 u.s.c. 3603(b)). (4) federally backed mortgage loan.--the term ``federally backed mortgage loan'' includes any loan (other than temporary financing such as a construction loan) that-- (a) is secured by a first or subordinate lien on residential real property (including individual units of condominiums and cooperatives) designed principally for the occupancy of from 1 to 4 families, including any such secured loan, the proceeds of which are used to prepay or pay off an existing loan secured by the same property; and (b) is made in whole or in part, or insured, guaranteed, supplemented, or assisted in any way, by any officer or agency of the federal government or under or in connection with a housing or urban development program administered by the secretary of housing and urban development or a housing or related program administered by any other such officer or agency, or is purchased or securitized by the federal home loan mortgage corporation or the federal national mortgage association. (5) federally backed multifamily mortgage loan.--the term ``federally backed multifamily mortgage loan'' includes any loan (other than temporary financing such as a construction loan) that-- (a) is secured by a first or subordinate lien on residential multifamily real property designed principally for the occupancy of 5 or more families, including any such secured loan, the proceeds of which are used to prepay or pay off an existing loan secured by the same property; and (b) is made in whole or in part, or insured, guaranteed, supplemented, or assisted in any way, by any officer or agency of the federal government or under or in connection with a housing or urban development program administered by the secretary of housing and urban development or a housing or related program administered by any other such officer or agency, or is purchased or securitized by the federal home loan mortgage corporation or the federal national mortgage association. (b) moratorium.--during the 120-day period beginning on the date of enactment of this act, the lessor of a covered dwelling may not-- (1) make, or cause to be made, any filing with the court of jurisdiction to initiate a legal action to recover possession of the covered dwelling from the tenant for nonpayment of rent or other fees or charges; or (2) charge fees, penalties, or other charges to the tenant related to such nonpayment of rent. (c) notice.--the lessor of a covered dwelling unit-- (1) may not require the tenant to vacate the covered dwelling unit before the date that is 30 days after the date on which the lessor provides the tenant with a notice to vacate; and (2) may not issue a notice to vacate under paragraph (1) until after the expiration of the period described in subsection (b). sec. 4025. protection of collective bargaining agreement. (a) in general.--neither the secretary, nor any other actor, department, or agency of the federal government, shall condition the issuance of a loan or loan guarantee under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 4003(b) of this subtitle on an air carrier's or eligible business's implementation of measures to enter into negotiations with the certified bargaining representative of a craft or class of employees of the air carrier or eligible business under the railway labor act (45 u.s.c. 151 et seq.) or the national labor relations act (29 u.s.c. 151 et seq.), regarding pay or other terms and conditions of employment. (b) period of effect.--with respect to an air carrier or eligible business to which the loan or loan guarantee is provided under this subtitle, this section shall be in effect with respect to the air carrier or eligible business beginning on the date on which the air carrier or eligible business is first issued such loan or loan guarantee and ending on the date that is 1 year after the loan or loan guarantee is no longer outstanding. sec. 4026. reports. (a) disclosure of transactions.--not later than 72 hours after any transaction by the secretary under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 4003(b), the secretary shall publish on the website of the department of the treasury-- (1) a plain-language description of the transaction, including the date of application, date of application approval, and identity of the counterparty; (2) the amount of the loan or loan guarantee; (3) the interest rate, conditions, and any other material or financial terms associated with the transaction, if applicable; and (4) a copy of the relevant and final term sheet, if applicable, and contract or other relevant documentation regarding the transaction. (b) reports.-- (1) to congress.-- (a) in general.--in addition to such reports as are required under section 5302(c) of title 31, united states code, not later than 7 days after the secretary makes any loan or loan guarantee under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 4003(b), the secretary shall submit to the chairmen and ranking members of the committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs and the committee on finance of the senate and the chairmen and ranking members of the committee on financial services and the committee [[page h1787]] on ways and means of the house of representatives a report summarizing-- (i) an overview of actions taken by the secretary under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of section 4003(b) during such period; (ii) the actual obligation, expenditure, and disbursements of the funds during such period; and (iii) a detailed financial statement with respect to the exercise of authority under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of section 4003(b) showing-- (i) all loans and loan guarantees made, renewed, or restructured; (ii) all transactions during such period, including the types of parties involved; (iii) the nature of the assets purchased; (iv) a description of the vehicles established to exercise such authority; and (v) any or all repayment activity, delinquencies or defaults on loans and loan guarantees issued under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) of section 4003(b). (b) publication.--not later than 7 days after the date on which the secretary submits a report under subparagraph (a) to the committees of congress described in such subparagraph, the secretary shall publish such report on the website of the department of the treasury. (c) 30-day reports.--every 30 days during such time as a loan or loan guarantee under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 4003(b) is outstanding, the secretary shall publish on the website of the department of the treasury a report summarizing the information set forth in subparagraph (a). (2) board of governors.-- (a) in general.--with respect to any program or facility described in paragraph (4) of section 4003(b), the board of governors of the federal reserve system shall provide to the committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs of the senate and the committee on financial services of the house of representatives such reports as are required to be provided under section 13(3) of the federal reserve act (12 u.s.c. 343(3))-- (i) not later than 7 days after the board authorizes a new facility or other financial assistance in accordance with section 13(3)(c)(i) of the federal reserve act (12 u.s.c. 343(3)(c)(i)); and (ii) once every 30 days with respect to outstanding loans or financial assistance in accordance with section 13(3)(c)(ii) of the federal reserve act (12 u.s.c. 343(3)(c)(ii)). (b) publication.--not later than 7 days after the board of governors of the federal reserve system submits a report under subparagraph (a) to the committees of congress described in subparagraph (a), the board shall publish on its website such report. (c) testimony.--the secretary and the chairman of the board of governors of the federal reserve system shall testify, on a quarterly basis, before the committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs of the senate and the committee on financial services of the house of representatives regarding the obligations of the department of the treasury and the federal reserve system, and transactions entered into, under this act. (d) program descriptions.--the secretary shall post on the website of the department of the treasury all criteria, guidelines, eligibility requirements, and application materials for the making of any loan or loan guarantee under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 4003(b). (e) administrative contracts.--not later than 24 hours after the secretary enters into a contract in connection with the administration of any loan or loan guarantee authorized to be made under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 4003(b), the secretary shall post on the website of the department of the treasury a copy of the contract. (f) government accountability office.-- (1) study.--the comptroller general of the united states shall conduct a study on the loans, loan guarantees, and other investments provided under section 4003. (2) report.--not later than 9 months after the date of enactment of this act, and annually thereafter through the year succeeding the last year for which loans, loan guarantees, or other investments made under section 4003 are outstanding, the comptroller general shall submit to the committee on financial services, the committee on transportation and infrastructure, the committee on appropriations, and the committee on the budget of the house of representatives and the committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs, the committee on commerce, science, and transportation, the committee on appropriations, and the committee on the budget of the senate a report on the loans, loan guarantees, and other investments made under section 4003. sec. 4027. direct appropriation. (a) in general.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, there is appropriated, out of amounts in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the fund established under section 5302(a)(1) of title 31, united states code, $500,000,000,000 to carry out this subtitle. (b) technical and conforming amendment.--section 5302(a) of title 31, united states code, is amended-- (1) by striking ``and'' before ``section 3''; and (2) by inserting ``and the coronavirus economic stabilization act of 2020,'' before ``and for investing''. (c) clarification.-- (1) in general.--on or after january 1, 2021, any remaining funds made available under section 4003(b) may be used only for-- (a) modifications, restructurings, or other amendments of loans, loan guarantees, or other investments in accordance with section 4029(b)(1); and (b) exercising any options, warrants, or other investments made prior to january 1, 2021; and (c) paying costs and administrative expenses as provided in section 4003(f). (2) deficit reduction.--on january 1, 2026, any funds described in paragraph (1) that are remaining shall be transferred to the general fund of the treasury to be used for deficit reduction. sec. 4028. rule of construction. nothing in this subtitle shall be construed to allow the secretary to provide relief to eligible businesses, states, and municipalities except in the form of loans, loan guarantees, and other investments as provided in this subtitle and under terms and conditions that are in the interest of the federal government. sec. 4029. termination of authority. (a) in general.--except as provided in subsection (b), on december 31, 2020, the authority provided under this subtitle to make new loans, loan guarantees, or other investments shall terminate. (b) outstanding.-- (1) in general.--except as provided in paragraph (2), any loan, loan guarantee, or other investment outstanding on the date described in subsection (a)-- (a) may be modified, restructured, or otherwise amended; and (b) may not be forgiven. (2) duration.--the duration of any loan or loan guarantee made under section 4003(b)(1) that is modified, restructured, or otherwise amended under paragraph (1) shall not be extended beyond 5 years from the initial origination date of the loan or loan guarantee. subtitle b--air carrier worker support sec. 4111. definitions. unless otherwise specified, the terms in section 40102(a) of title 49, united states code, shall apply to this subtitle, except that-- (1) the term ``airline catering employee'' means an employee who performs airline catering services; (2) the term ``airline catering services'' means preparation, assembly, or both, of food, beverages, provisions and related supplies for delivery, and the delivery of such items, directly to aircraft or to a location on or near airport property for subsequent delivery to aircraft; (3) the term ``contractor'' means-- (a) a person that performs, under contract with a passenger air carrier conducting operations under part 121 of title 14, code of federal regulations-- (i) catering functions; or (ii) functions on the property of an airport that are directly related to the air transportation of persons, property, or mail, including but not limited to the loading and unloading of property on aircraft; assistance to passengers under part 382 of title 14, code of federal regulations; security; airport ticketing and check-in functions; ground-handling of aircraft; or aircraft cleaning and sanitization functions and waste removal; or (b) a subcontractor that performs such functions; (4) the term ``employee'' means an individual, other than a corporate officer, who is employed by an air carrier or a contractor; and (5) the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of the treasury. sec. 4112. pandemic relief for aviation workers. (a) financial assistance for employee wages, salaries, and benefits.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, to preserve aviation jobs and compensate air carrier industry workers, the secretary shall provide financial assistance that shall exclusively be used for the continuation of payment of employee wages, salaries, and benefits to-- (1) passenger air carriers, in an aggregate amount up to $25,000,000,000; (2) cargo air carriers, in the aggregate amount up to $4,000,000,000; and (3) contractors, in an aggregate amount up to $3,000,000,000. (b) administrative expenses.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary, may use $100,000,000 of the funds made available under section 4120(a) for costs and administrative expenses associated with providing financial assistance under this subtitle. sec. 4113. procedures for providing payroll support. (a) awardable amounts.--the secretary shall provide financial assistance under this subtitle-- (1) to an air carrier in an amount equal to the salaries and benefits reported by the air carrier to the department of transportation pursuant to part 241 of title 14, code of federal regulations, for the period from april 1, 2019, through september 30, 2019; and (2) to an air carrier that does not transmit reports under such part 241, in an amount that such air carrier certifies, using sworn financial statements or other appropriate data, as the amount of wages, salaries, benefits, and other compensation that such air carrier paid the employees of such air carrier during the period from april 1, 2019, through september 30, 2019; and (3) to a contractor, in an amount that the contractor certifies, using sworn financial statements or other appropriate data, as the amount of wages, salaries, benefits, and other compensation that such contractor paid the employees of such contractor during the period from april 1, 2019, through september 30, 2019. (b) deadlines and procedures.-- (1) in general.-- (a) forms; terms and conditions.--financial assistance provided to an air carrier or contractor under this subtitle shall be in such form, on such terms and conditions (including requirements for audits and the clawback of any financial assistance provided upon failure by a passenger air carrier, cargo air carrier, or contractor to honor the assurances specified in section 4114), as the secretary determines appropriate. [[page h1788]] (b) procedures.--the secretary shall publish streamlined and expedited procedures not later than 5 days after the date of enactment of this act for air carriers and contractors to submit requests for financial assistance under this subtitle. (2) deadline for immediate payroll assistance.--not later than 10 days after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary shall make initial payments to air carriers and contractors that submit requests for financial assistance approved by to the secretary. (3) subsequent payments.--the secretary shall determine an appropriate method for timely distribution of payments to air carriers and contractors with approved requests for financial assistance from any funds remaining available after providing initial financial assistance payments under paragraph (2). (c) pro rata authority.--the secretary shall have the authority to reduce, on a pro rata basis, the amounts due to air carriers and contractors under the applicable paragraph of section 4112 in order to address any shortfall in assistance that would otherwise be provided under such section. (d) audits.--the inspector general of the department of the treasury shall audit certifications made under subsection (a). sec. 4114. required assurances. (a) in general.--to be eligible for financial assistance under this subtitle, an air carrier or contractor shall enter into an agreement with the secretary, or otherwise certify in such form and manner as the secretary shall prescribe, that the air carrier or contractor shall-- (1) refrain from conducting involuntary furloughs or reducing pay rates and benefits until september 30, 2020; (2) through september 30, 2021, ensure that neither the air carrier or contractor nor any affiliate of the air carrier or contractor may, in any transaction, purchase an equity security of the air carrier or contractor or the parent company of the air carrier or contractor that is listed on a national securities exchange; (3) through september 30, 2021, ensure that the air carrier or contractor shall not pay dividends, or make other capital distributions, with respect to the common stock (or equivalent interest) of the air carrier or contractor; and (4) meet the requirements of sections 4115 and 4116. (b) department of transportation authority to condition assistance on continuation of service.-- (1) in general.--the secretary of transportation is authorized to require, to the extent reasonable and practicable, an air carrier provided financial assistance under this subtitle to maintain scheduled air transportation service, as the secretary of transportation deems necessary, to ensure services to any point served by that carrier before march 1, 2020. (2) required considerations.--when considering whether to exercise the authority provided by this section, the secretary of transportation shall take into consideration the air transportation needs of small and remote communities and the need to maintain well-functioning health care supply chains, including medical devices and supplies, and pharmaceutical supply chains. (3) sunset.--the authority provided under this subsection shall terminate on march 1, 2022, and any requirements issued by the secretary of transportation under this subsection shall cease to apply after that date. sec. 4115. protection of collective bargaining agreement. (a) in general.--neither the secretary, nor any other actor, department, or agency of the federal government, shall condition the issuance of financial assistance under this subtitle on an air carrier's or contractor's implementation of measures to enter into negotiations with the certified bargaining representative of a craft or class of employees of the air carrier or contractor under the railway labor act (45 u.s.c. 151 et seq.) or the national labor relations act (29 u.s.c. 151 et seq.), regarding pay or other terms and conditions of employment. (b) period of effect.--with respect to an air carrier or contractor to which financial assistance is provided under this subtitle, this section shall be in effect with respect to the air carrier or contractor beginning on the date on which the air carrier or contractor is first issued such financial assistance and ending on september 30, 2020. sec. 4116. limitation on certain employee compensation. (a) in general.--the secretary may only provide financial assistance under this subtitle to an air carrier or contractor after such carrier or contractor enters into an agreement with the secretary which provides that, during the 2-year period beginning march 24, 2020, and ending march 24, 2022, no officer or employee of the air carrier or contractor whose total compensation exceeded $425,000 in calendar year 2019 (other than an employee whose compensation is determined through an existing collective bargaining agreement entered into prior to enactment of this act)-- (1) will receive from the air carrier or contractor total compensation which exceeds, during any 12 consecutive months of such 2-year period, the total compensation received by the officer or employee from the air carrier or contractor in calendar year 2019; (2) will receive from the air carrier or contractor severance pay or other benefits upon termination of employment with the air carrier or contractor which exceeds twice the maximum total compensation received by the officer or employee from the air carrier or contractor in calendar year 2019; and (3) no officer or employee of the eligible business whose total compensation exceeded $3,000,000 in calendar year 2019 may receive during any 12 consecutive months of such period total compensation in excess of the sum of-- (a) $3,000,000; and (b) 50 percent of the excess over $3,000,000 of the total compensation received by the officer or employee from the eligible business in calendar year 2019. (b) total compensation defined.--in this section, the term ``total compensation'' includes salary, bonuses, awards of stock, and other financial benefits provided by an air carrier or contractor to an officer or employee of the air carrier or contractor. sec. 4117. tax payer protection. the secretary may receive warrants, options, preferred stock, debt securities, notes, or other financial instruments issued by recipients of financial assistance under this subtitle which, in the sole determination of the secretary, provide appropriate compensation to the federal government for the provision of the financial assistance. sec. 4118. reports. (a) report.--not later than november 1, 2020, the secretary shall submit to the committee on transportation and infrastructure and the committee on financial services of the house of representatives and the committee on commerce, science, and transportation and the committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs of the senate a report on the financial assistance provided to air carriers and contractors under this subtitle, including a description of any financial assistance provided. (b) update.--not later than the last day of the 1-year period following the date of enactment of this act, the secretary shall update and submit to the committee on transportation and the committee on financial services and infrastructure of the house of representatives and the committee on commerce, science, and transportation and the committee on banking, housing, and urban affairs of the senate the report described in subsection (a). sec. 4119. coordination. in implementing this subtitle the secretary shall coordinate with the secretary of transportation. sec. 4120. direct appropriation. notwithstanding any other provision of law, there is appropriated, out of amounts in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, $32,000,000,000 to carry out this subtitle. title v--coronavirus relief funds sec. 5001. coronavirus relief fund. (a) in general.--the social security act (42 u.s.c. 301 et seq.) is amended by inserting after title v the following: ``title vi--coronavirus relief fund ``sec. 601. coronavirus relief fund. ``(a) appropriation.-- ``(1) in general.--out of any money in the treasury of the united states not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated for making payments to states, tribal governments, and units of local government under this section, $150,000,000,000 for fiscal year 2020. ``(2) reservation of funds.--of the amount appropriated under paragraph (1), the secretary shall reserve-- ``(a) $3,000,000,000 of such amount for making payments to the district of columbia, the commonwealth of puerto rico, the united states virgin islands, guam, the commonwealth of the northern mariana islands, and american samoa; and ``(b) $8,000,000,000 of such amount for making payments to tribal governments. ``(b) authority to make payments.-- ``(1) in general.--subject to paragraph (2), not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this section, the secretary shall pay each state and tribal government, and each unit of local government that meets the condition described in paragraph (2), the amount determined for the state, tribal government, or unit of local government, for fiscal year 2020 under subsection (c). ``(2) direct payments to units of local government.--if a unit of local government of a state submits the certification required by subsection (e) for purposes of receiving a direct payment from the secretary under the authority of this paragraph, the secretary shall reduce the amount determined for that state by the relative unit of local government population proportion amount described in subsection (c)(5) and pay such amount directly to such unit of local government. ``(c) payment amounts.-- ``(1) in general.--subject to paragraph (2), the amount paid under this section for fiscal year 2020 to a state that is 1 of the 50 states shall be the amount equal to the relative population proportion amount determined for the state under paragraph (3) for such fiscal year. ``(2) minimum payment.-- ``(a) in general.--no state that is 1 of the 50 states shall receive a payment under this section for fiscal year 2020 that is less than $1,250,000,000. ``(b) pro rata adjustments.--the secretary shall adjust on a pro rata basis the amount of the payments for each of the 50 states determined under this subsection without regard to this subparagraph to the extent necessary to comply with the requirements of subparagraph (a). ``(3) relative population proportion amount.--for purposes of paragraph (1), the relative population proportion amount determined under this paragraph for a state for fiscal year 2020 is the product of-- ``(a) the amount appropriated under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) for fiscal year 2020 that remains after the application of paragraph (2) of that subsection; and ``(b) the relative state population proportion (as defined in paragraph (4)). ``(4) relative state population proportion defined.--for purposes of paragraph (3)(b), the [[page h1789]] term `relative state population proportion' means, with respect to a state, the quotient of-- ``(a) the population of the state; and ``(b) the total population of all states (excluding the district of columbia and territories specified in subsection (a)(2)(a)). ``(5) relative unit of local government population proportion amount.--for purposes of subsection (b)(2), the term `relative unit of local government population proportion amount' means, with respect to a unit of local government and a state, the amount equal to the product of-- ``(a) 45 percent of the amount of the payment determined for the state under this subsection (without regard to this paragraph); and ``(b) the amount equal to the quotient of-- ``(i) the population of the unit of local government; and ``(ii) the total population of the state in which the unit of local government is located. ``(6) district of columbia and territories.--the amount paid under this section for fiscal year 2020 to a state that is the district of columbia or a territory specified in subsection (a)(2)(a) shall be the amount equal to the product of-- ``(a) the amount set aside under subsection (a)(2)(a) for such fiscal year; and ``(b) each such district's and territory's share of the combined total population of the district of columbia and all such territories, as determined by the secretary. ``(7) tribal governments.--from the amount set aside under subsection (a)(2)(b) for fiscal year 2020, the amount paid under this section for fiscal year 2020 to a tribal government shall be the amount the secretary shall determine, in consultation with the secretary of the interior and indian tribes, that is based on increased expenditures of each such tribal government (or a tribally-owned entity of such tribal government) relative to aggregate expenditures in fiscal year 2019 by the tribal government (or tribally-owned entity) and determined in such manner as the secretary determines appropriate to ensure that all amounts available under subsection (a)(2)(b) for fiscal year 2020 are distributed to tribal governments. ``(8) data.--for purposes of this subsection, the population of states and units of local governments shall be determined based on the most recent year for which data are available from the bureau of the census. ``(d) use of funds.--a state, tribal government, and unit of local government shall use the funds provided under a payment made under this section to cover only those costs of the state, tribal government, or unit of local government that-- ``(1) are necessary expenditures incurred due to the public health emergency with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19); ``(2) were not accounted for in the budget most recently approved as of the date of enactment of this section for the state or government; and ``(3) were incurred during the period that begins on march 1, 2020, and ends on december 30, 2020. ``(e) certification.--in order to receive a payment under this section, a unit of local government shall provide the secretary with a certification signed by the chief executive for the unit of local government that the local government's proposed uses of the funds are consistent with subsection (d). ``(f) inspector general oversight; recoupment.-- ``(1) oversight authority.--the inspector general of the department of the treasury shall conduct monitoring and oversight of the receipt, disbursement, and use of funds made available under this section. ``(2) recoupment.--if the inspector general of the department of the treasury determines that a state, tribal government, or unit of local government has failed to comply with subsection (d), the amount equal to the amount of funds used in violation of such subsection shall be booked as a debt of such entity owed to the federal government. amounts recovered under this subsection shall be deposited into the general fund of the treasury. ``(3) appropriation.--out of any money in the treasury of the united states not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the office of the inspector general of the department of the treasury, $35,000,000 to carry out oversight and recoupment activities under this subsection. amounts appropriated under the preceding sentence shall remain available until expended. ``(4) authority of inspector general.--nothing in this subsection shall be construed to diminish the authority of any inspector general, including such authority as provided in the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.). ``(g) definitions.--in this section: ``(1) indian tribe.--the term `indian tribe' has the meaning given that term in section 4(e) of the indian self- determination and education assistance act (25 u.s.c. 5304(e)). ``(2) local government.--the term `unit of local government' means a county, municipality, town, township, village, parish, borough, or other unit of general government below the state level with a population that exceeds 500,000. ``(3) secretary.--the term `secretary' means the secretary of the treasury. ``(4) state.--the term `state' means the 50 states, the district of columbia, the commonwealth of puerto rico, the united states virgin islands, guam, the commonwealth of the northern mariana islands, and american samoa. ``(5) tribal government.--the term `tribal government' means the recognized governing body of an indian tribe.''. (b) application of provisions.--amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2020 under section 601(a)(1) of the social security act (as added by subsection (a)) shall be subject to the requirements contained in public law 116-94 for funds for programs authorized under sections 330 through 340 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 254 through 256). title vi--miscellaneous provisions sec. 6001. covid-19 borrowing authority for the united states postal service. (a) definitions.--in this section-- (1) the term ``covid-19 emergency'' means the emergency involving federal primary responsibility determined to exist by the president under section 501(b) of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5191(b)) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19); and (2) the term ``postal service'' means the united states postal service. (b) additional borrowing authority.--notwithstanding section 2005 of title 39, united states code, or any other provision of law, if the postal service determines that, due to the covid-19 emergency, the postal service will not be able to fund operating expenses without borrowing money-- (1) the postal service may borrow money from the treasury in an amount not to exceed $10,000,000,000-- (a) to be used for such operating expenses; and (b) which may not be used to pay any outstanding debt of the postal service; and (2) the secretary of the treasury may lend up to the amount described in paragraph (1) at the request of the postal service, upon terms and conditions mutually agreed upon by the secretary and the postal service. (c) prioritization of delivery for medical purposes during covid-19 emergency.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, during the covid-19 emergency, the postal service-- (1) shall prioritize delivery of postal products for medical purposes; and (2) may establish temporary delivery points, in such form and manner as the postal service determines necessary, to protect employees of the postal service and individuals receiving deliveries from the postal service. sec. 6002. emergency designation. (a) in general.--the amounts provided under this division are designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4(g) of the statutory pay-as-you-go act of 2010 (2 u.s.c. 933(g)). (b) designation in senate.--in the senate, this division is designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4112(a) of h. con. res. 71 (115th congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018. division b--emergency appropriations for coronavirus health response and agency operations the following sums are hereby are appropriated, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2020, and for other purposes, namely: title i agricultural programs office of the secretary for an additional amount for the ``office of the secretary'', $9,500,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus by providing support for agricultural producers impacted by coronavirus, including producers of specialty crops, producers that supply local food systems, including farmers markets, restaurants, and schools, and livestock producers, including dairy producers: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. office of inspector general for an additional amount for ``office of inspector general'', $750,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that the funding made available under this heading in this act shall be used for conducting audits and investigations of projects and activities carried out with funds made available in this act to the department of agriculture to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. animal and plant health inspection service salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $55,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including for necessary expenses for salary costs associated with the agriculture quarantine and inspection program: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. agricultural marketing service marketing services for an additional amount for ``marketing services'', $45,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including necessary expenses for salary costs associated with commodity grading, inspection, and audit activities: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to [[page h1790]] section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. food safety and inspection service for an additional amount for ``food safety and inspection service'', $33,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including for support of temporary and intermittent workers, relocation of inspectors, and, notwithstanding 21 u.s.c. 468, 695 and 1053 and 7 u.s.c. 2219a, costs of overtime inspectors under the federal meat inspection act, the poultry products inspection act, and the egg products inspection act: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. farm production and conservation programs farm service agency for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $3,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including necessary expenses to hire temporary staff and overtime expenses: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. rural development programs rural business--cooperative service rural business program account for an additional amount for ``rural business program account'', $20,500,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, for the cost of loans for rural business development programs authorized by section 310b and described in subsection (g) of section 310b of the consolidated farm and rural development act: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. rural utilities service distance learning, telemedicine, and broadband program for an additional amount for ``distance learning, telemedicine, and broadband program'', $25,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, for telemedicine and distance learning services in rural areas, as authorized by 7 u.s.c. 950aaa et seq.: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. domestic food programs food and nutrition service child nutrition programs for an additional amount for ``child nutrition programs'', $8,800,000,000 to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. supplemental nutrition assistance program for an additional amount for ``supplemental nutrition assistance program'', $15,810,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $15,510,000,000 shall be placed in a contingency reserve to be allocated as the secretary deems necessary to support participation should cost or participation exceed budget estimates to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $100,000,000 shall be for the food distribution program on indian reservations program as authorized by section 4(b) of the food and nutrition act of 2008 (7 u.s.c. 2013) and section 4(a) of the agriculture and consumer protection act of 1973 (7 u.s.c. 1431) to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, of which $50,000,000 shall be for facility improvements and equipment upgrades and of which $50,000,000 shall be for the costs relating to additional food purchases: provided further, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $200,000,000 to remain available through september 30, 2021, shall be available for the secretary of agriculture to provide grants to the commonwealth of the northern mariana islands, puerto rico, and american samoa for nutrition assistance to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. commodity assistance program for an additional amount for ``commodity assistance program'', $450,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, for the emergency food assistance program as authorized by section 27(a) of the food and nutrition act of 2008 (7 u.s.c. 2036(a)) and section 204(a)(1) of the emergency food assistance act of 1983 (7 u.s.c. 7508(a)(1)): provided, that of the funds made available, the secretary may use up to $150,000,000 for costs associated with the distribution of commodities: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. foreign assistance and related programs foreign agricultural service salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $4,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including necessary expenses to relocate employees and their dependents back from overseas posts: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. related agencies and food and drug administration department of health and human services food and drug administration salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $80,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including funds for the development of necessary medical countermeasures and vaccines, advanced manufacturing for medical products, the monitoring of medical product supply chains, and related administrative activities: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general provisions--this title (including transfer of funds) sec. 11001. of the funds made available to the rural development mission area in this title, and in addition to funds otherwise made available for such purpose, not more than 3 percent may be used for administrative costs to carry out loan, loan guarantee and grant activities funded in this title to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such funds shall be transferred to, and merged with, the appropriation for ``rural development, salaries and expenses'' and, once transferred, shall be used only to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that this transfer authority is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law. commodity credit corporation reimbursement of present net realized losses sec. 11002. of the amounts provided in the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-94) under the heading ``commodity credit corporation fund-- reimbursement for net realized losses'', $14,000,000,000, may be used, prior to the completion of the report described in 15 u.s.c. 713a-11, to reimburse the commodity credit corporation for net realized losses sustained, but not previously reimbursed, as reflected in the june 2020 report of its financial condition: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. sec. 11003. the secretary may extend the term of a marketing assistance loan authorized by section 1201 of the agricultural act of 2014 (7 u.s.c. 9033) for any loan commodity to 12 months: provided, that the authority made available pursuant to this section shall expire on september 30, 2020: provided further, that the amount provided by this section is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. sec. 11004. for an additional amount for grants under the pilot program established under section 779 of public law 115-141, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, $100,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021: provided, that at least 90 percent of the households to be served by a project receiving a grant shall be in a rural area without sufficient access to broadband: provided further, that for purposes of such pilot program, a rural area without sufficient access to broadband shall be defined as 10 mbps downstream and 1 mbps upstream, and such definition shall be reevaluated and redefined, as necessary, on an annual basis by the secretary of agriculture: provided further, that an entity to which a grant is made under the pilot program shall not use a grant to overbuild or duplicate broadband expansion efforts made by any entity that has received a broadband loan from the rural utilities service: provided further, that priority consideration for grants shall be given to previous applicants now eligible as a result of adjusted eligibility requirements: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. title ii department of commerce economic development administration economic development assistance programs (including transfers of funds) pursuant to section 703 of the public works and economic development act (42 u.s.c. 3233), for an additional amount for ``economic development assistance programs'', $1,500,000,000, to [[page h1791]] remain available until september 30, 2022, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including for necessary expenses for responding to economic injury as a result of coronavirus: provided, that such amount shall be for economic adjustment assistance as authorized by section 209 of the public works and economic development act of 1965 (42 u.s.c. 3149): provided further, that within the amount appropriated under this heading in this act, up to 2 percent of funds may be transferred to the ``salaries and expenses'' account for administration and oversight activities related to preventing, preparing for, and responding to coronavirus: provided further, that the secretary of commerce is authorized to appoint and fix the compensation of such temporary personnel as may be necessary to implement the requirements under this heading in this act to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, without regard to the provisions of title 5, united states code, governing appointments in competitive service: provided further, that the secretary of commerce is authorized to appoint such temporary personnel, after serving continuously for 2 years, to positions in the economic development administration in the same manner that competitive service employees with competitive status are considered for transfer, reassignment, or promotion to such positions and an individual appointed under this provision shall become a career-conditional employee, unless the employee has already completed the service requirements for career tenure: provided further, that within the amount appropriated under this heading in this act, $3,000,000 shall be transferred to the ``office of inspector general'' account for carrying out investigations and audits related to the funding provided to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus under this heading in this act: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national institute of standards and technology scientific and technical research and services for an additional amount for ``scientific and technical research and services'', $6,000,000, to remain available until september, 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, by supporting continuity of operations, including measurement science to support viral testing and biomanufacturing: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. industrial technology services for an additional amount for ``industrial technology services'', $60,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $50,000,000 shall be for the hollings manufacturing extension partnership to assist manufacturers to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus and $10,000,000 shall be for the national network for manufacturing innovation (also known as ``manufacturing usa'') to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including to support development and manufacturing of medical countermeasures and biomedical equipment and supplies: provided further, that none of the funds provided under this heading in this act shall be subject to cost share requirements under 15 u.s.c. 278k(e)(2) or 15 u.s.c. 278s(e)(7)(a): provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national oceanic and atmospheric administration operations, research, and facilities for an additional amount for ``operations, research, and facilities'', $20,000,000, to remain available until september, 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, by supporting continuity of operations, including national weather service life and property related operations: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. department of justice general administration justice information sharing technology for an additional amount for ``justice information sharing technology'', $2,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including the impact of coronavirus on the work of the department of justice: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. office of inspector general for an additional amount for ``office of inspector general'', $2,000,000, to remain available until expended to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including the impact of coronavirus on the work of the department of justice and to carry out investigations and audits related to the funding made available for the department of justice in this act: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. legal activities salaries and expenses, united states attorneys for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses, united states attorneys'', $3,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including the impact of coronavirus on the work of the department of justice: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. united states marshals service salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``united states marshals service, salaries and expenses'', $15,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including the impact of coronavirus on the work of the department of justice: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. federal bureau of investigation salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``federal bureau of investigation, salaries and expenses'', $20,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including the impact of coronavirus on the work of the department of justice: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. drug enforcement administration salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``drug enforcement administration, salaries and expenses'', $15,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including the impact of coronavirus on the work of the department of justice: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. federal prison system salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``federal prison system, salaries and expenses'', $100,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including the impact of coronavirus on the work of the department of justice: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. state and local law enforcement activities office of justice programs state and local law enforcement assistance for an additional amount for ``state and local law enforcement assistance'', $850,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, to be awarded pursuant to the formula allocation (adjusted in proportion to the relative amounts statutorily designated therefor) that was used in fiscal year 2019 for the edward byrne memorial justice assistance grant program as authorized by subpart 1 of part e of title i of the omnibus crime control and safe streets acts of 1968 (``1968 act''): provided, that the allocation provisions under sections 505(a) through (e) and the special rules for puerto rico under section 505(g), and section 1001(c), of the 1968 act, shall not apply to the amount provided under this heading in this act: provided further, that awards hereunder, shall not be subject to restrictions or special conditions that are the same as (or substantially similar to) those, imposed on awards under such subpart in fiscal year 2018, that forbid interference with federal law enforcement: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. science national aeronautics and space administration safety, security and mission services for an additional amount for ``safety, security and mission services'', $60,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national science foundation research and related activities for an additional amount for ``research and related activities'', $75,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including to fund research grants and other necessary expenses: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. agency operations and award management for an additional amount for ``agency operations and award management'', $1,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including to administer research grants and other [[page h1792]] necessary expenses: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. related agencies legal services corporation payment to the legal services corporation for an additional amount for ``payment to the legal services corporation'', $50,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that none of the funds appropriated under this heading in this act to the legal services corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by, or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of public law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this act to the legal services corporation shall be subject to the same terms and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to refer instead to 2019 and 2020, respectively, and except that sections 501 and 503 of public law 104-134 (referenced by public law 105-119) shall not apply to the amount made available under this heading: provided further, that for the purposes of this act, the legal services corporation shall be considered an agency of the united states government: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general provisions--this title sec. 12001. amounts provided by the consolidated appropriations act, 2020, (public law 116-93) for the hollings manufacturing extension partnership under the heading ``national institute of standards and technology-- industrial technology services'' shall not be subject to cost share requirements under 15 u.s.c. 278k(e)(2): provided, that the authority made available pursuant to this section shall be elective for any manufacturing extension partnership center that also receives funding from a state that is conditioned upon the application of a federal cost sharing requirement. sec. 12002. (a) funds appropriated in this title for the national science foundation may be made available to restore amounts, either directly or through reimbursement, for obligations incurred by the national science foundation for research grants and other necessary expenses to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, prior to the date of enactment of this act. (b) grants or cooperative agreements made by the national science foundation under this title, to carry out research grants and other necessary expenses to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, shall include amounts to reimburse costs for these purposes incurred between january 20, 2020, and the date of issuance of such grants or agreements. bureau of prisons sec. 12003. (a) definitions.--in this section-- (1) the term ``bureau'' means the bureau of prisons; (2) the term ``covered emergency period'' means the period beginning on the date on which the president declared a national emergency under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) and ending on the date that is 30 days after the date on which the national emergency declaration terminates; and (3) the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of health and human services. (b) supply of personal protective equipment and test kits to bureau of prisons; home confinement authority.-- (1) personal protective equipment and test kits.-- (a) findings.--congress finds the following: (i) there is an urgent need for personal protective equipment and test kits to the bureau based on the density of the inmate population, the high traffic, the high volume of inmates, the high rate of turnover of inmates and personnel, and the number of high-security areas, within the facilities of the bureau. (ii) the inability of the bureau to secure the purchase of infectious disease personal protective equipment and related supplies now and in the future is a vulnerability. (iii) the bureau is currently competing in and engaging the same landscape of vendors as all other federal agencies and private entities. (iv) the ability of the bureau to purchase needed equipment and supplies is currently subject to an individual manufacturer's specific recognition of the bureau as a priority and subsequent allocation of the inventory of the manufacturer to the bureau. (b) consideration.--the secretary shall appropriately consider, relative to other priorities of the department of health and human services for high-risk and high-need populations, the distribution of infectious disease personal protective equipment and covid-19 test kits to the bureau for use by inmates and personnel of the bureau. (2) home confinement authority.--during the covered emergency period, if the attorney general finds that emergency conditions will materially affect the functioning of the bureau, the director of the bureau may lengthen the maximum amount of time for which the director is authorized to place a prisoner in home confinement under the first sentence of section 3624(c)(2) of title 18, united states code, as the director determines appropriate. (c) video visitation.-- (1) in general.--during the covered emergency period, if the attorney general finds that emergency conditions will materially affect the functioning of the bureau, the director of the bureau shall promulgate rules regarding the ability of inmates to conduct visitation through video teleconferencing and telephonically, free of charge to inmates, during the covered emergency period. (2) exemption from notice-and-comment rulemaking requirements.--section 553 of title 5, united states code, shall not apply to the promulgation of rules under paragraph (1) of this subsection. (d) emergency requirement.--the amount provided by this section is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. temporary authority of director of the uspto during the covid-19 emergency. sec. 12004. (a) in general.--during the emergency period described in subsection (e), the director may toll, waive, adjust, or modify, any timing deadline established by title 35, united states code, the trademark act, section 18 of the leahy-smith america invents act (35 u.s.c. 321 note), or regulations promulgated thereunder, in effect during such period, if the director determines that the emergency related to such period-- (1) materially affects the functioning of the patent and trademark office; (2) prejudices the rights of applicants, registrants, patent owners, or others appearing before the office; or (3) prevents applicants, registrants, patent owners, or others appearing before the office from filing a document or fee with the office. (b) public notice.--if the director determines that tolling, waiving, adjusting, or modifying a timing deadline under subsection (a) is appropriate, the director shall publish publicly a notice to such effect. (c) statement required.--not later than 20 days after the director tolls, waives, adjusts, or modifies a timing deadline under subsection (a) and such toll, waiver, adjustment, or modification is in effect for a consecutive or cumulative period exceeding 120 days, the director shall submit to congress a statement describing the action taken, relevant background, and rationale for the period of tolling, waiver, adjustment, or modification. (d) other laws.--notwithstanding section 301 of the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1631), the authority of the director under subsection (a) is not contingent on a specification made by the president under such section or any other requirement under that act (other than the emergency declaration under section 201(a) of such act (50 u.s.c. 1621(a))). the authority described in this section supersedes the authority of title ii of the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1621 et seq.). (e) emergency period.--the emergency period described in this subsection includes the duration of the portion of the emergency declared by the president pursuant to the national emergencies act on march 13, 2020, as a result of the covid- 19 outbreak (and any renewal thereof) beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this section and the 60 day period following such duration. (f) rule of construction.--nothing in this section may be construed as limiting other statutory authorities the director may have to grant relief regarding filings or deadlines. (g) sunset.--notwithstanding subsection (a), the authorities provided under this section shall expire upon the expiration of the 2-year period after the date of the enactment of this section. (h) definitions.--in this section: (1) director.--the term ``director'' means the under secretary of commerce for intellectual property and director of the united states patent and trademark office. (2) trademark act.--the term ``trademark act'' means the act entitled ``an act to provide for the registration and protection of trademarks used in commerce, to carry out the provisions of certain international conventions, and for other purposes'', approved july 5, 1946 (15 u.s.c. 1051 et seq.). (i) emergency requirement.--the amount provided by this section is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. assistance to fishery participants sec. 12005. (a) in general.--the secretary of commerce is authorized to provide assistance to tribal, subsistence, commercial, and charter fishery participants affected by the novel coronavirus (covid-19), which may include direct relief payments. (b) fishery participants.--for the purposes of this section, ``fishery participants'' include tribes, persons, fishing communities, aquaculture businesses not otherwise eligible for assistance under part 1416 of title 7 of the code of federal regulations for losses related to covid-19, processors, or other fishery-related businesses, who have incurred, as a direct or indirect result of the coronavirus pandemic-- (1) economic revenue losses greater than 35 percent as compared to the prior 5-year average revenue; or (2) any negative impacts to subsistence, cultural, or ceremonial fisheries. (c) rolling basis.--funds may be awarded under this section on a rolling basis, and within a fishing season, to ensure rapid delivery of funds during the covid-19 pandemic. (d) appropriations.--in addition to funds that are otherwise made available to assist fishery participants under this act, there are authorized to be appropriated, and there are appropriated, $300,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to carry out this section, of which up to 2 percent may be used for administration and oversight activities. [[page h1793]] (e) emergency requirement.--the amount provided by this section is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. title iii department of defense military personnel national guard personnel, army for an additional amount for ``national guard personnel, army'', $746,591,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national guard personnel, air force for an additional amount for ``national guard personnel, air force'', $482,125,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. operation and maintenance operation and maintenance, army for an additional amount for ``operation and maintenance, army'', $160,300,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. operation and maintenance, navy for an additional amount for ``operation and maintenance, navy'', $360,308,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. operation and maintenance, marine corps for an additional amount for ``operation and maintenance, marine corps'', $90,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. operation and maintenance, air force for an additional amount for ``operation and maintenance, air force'', $155,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. operation and maintenance, army reserve for an additional amount for ``operation and maintenance, army reserve'', $48,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. operation and maintenance, army national guard for an additional amount for ``operation and maintenance, army national guard'', $186,696,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. operation and maintenance, air national guard for an additional amount for ``operation and maintenance, air national guard'', $75,754,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. operation and maintenance, defense-wide for an additional amount for ``operation and maintenance, defense-wide'', $827,800,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. procurement defense production act purchases for an additional amount for ``defense production act purchases'', $1,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that for the two-year period beginning with the date of enactment of this act, the requirements described in section 301(a)(3)(a) and 302(c)(1) of public law 81-774, shall be waived: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. revolving and management funds defense working capital funds for an additional amount for ``defense working capital funds'', $1,450,000,000, to prevent, position, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $475,000,000 shall be for the navy working capital fund, $475,000,000 shall be for the air force working capital fund, and $500,000,000 shall be for the defense-wide working capital fund: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. other department of defense programs defense health program for an additional amount for ``defense health program'', $3,805,600,000, of which $3,390,600,000 shall be for operation and maintenance, and $415,000,000 shall be for research, development, test and evaluation, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that, notwithstanding that one percent of funding for operation and maintenance under this heading in public law 116-93 shall remain available for obligation until september 30, 2021, funding for operation and maintenance made available under this heading in this act shall only be available through september 30, 2020: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. office of the inspector general for an additional amount for ``office of the inspector general'', $20,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that the funding made available under this heading in this act shall be used for conducting audits and investigations of projects and activities carried out with funds made available in this act to the department of defense to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general provisions--this title sec. 13001. funds appropriated by this title may be transferred to, and merged with, other applicable appropriations of the department of defense, except for ``drug interdiction and counter-drug activities, defense'', for expenses incurred in preventing, preparing for, or responding to coronavirus, including expenses of the department of defense incurred in support of other federal departments and agencies, and state, local, and indian tribal governments, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation or fund to which transferred: provided, that upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred pursuant to this section that are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such funds shall be transferred back to the original appropriation: provided further, that the transfer authority provided by this section is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law. sec. 13002. for an additional amount for ``defense health program'', $1,095,500,000, which shall be for operation and maintenance, and of which $1,095,500,000 may be available for contracts entered into under the tricare program: provided, that, notwithstanding that one percent of funding for operation and maintenance under this heading in public law 116-93 shall remain available for obligation until september 30, 2021, funding for operation and maintenance made available under this heading in this section shall only be available through september 30, 2020: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. sec. 13003. (a) notwithstanding section 2208(l)(3) of title 10, united states code, during fiscal year 2020, the total amount of the advance billings rendered or imposed for all working-capital funds of the department of defense may exceed the amount otherwise specified in such section. (b) in this section, the term ``advance billing'' has the meaning given that term in section 2208(l)(4) of title 10, united states code. sec. 13004. (a) section 2326(b)(3) of title 10, united states code, shall not apply to any undefinitized contract action of the department of defense related to the national emergency for the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). (b) in this section, the term ``undefinitized contract action'' has the meaning given that term in section 2326(j)(6) of title 10, united states code. sec. 13005. (a) the head of an agency may waive the provisions of section 2326(b) of title 10, united states code, with respect to a contract of such agency if the head of the agency determines that the waiver is necessary due to the national emergency for the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). (b) in this section, the term ``head of an agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 2302(2) of title 10, united states code. sec. 13006. (a) notwithstanding paragraph (3) of section 2371b(a) of title 10, united states code, the authority of a senior procurement executive or director of the defense advanced research projects agency or missile defense agency under paragraph (2)(a) of such section, and the authority of the under secretaries of defense under paragraph (2)(b) of such section, [[page h1794]] for any transaction related to the national emergency for the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) may be delegated to such officials in the department of defense as the secretary of defense shall specify for purposes of this section. (b)(1) notwithstanding clause (ii) of section 2371b(a)(2)(b) of title 10, united states code, no advance notice to congress is required under that clause for transitions described in that section that are related to the national emergency for the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid- 19). (2) in the event a transaction covered by paragraph (1) is carried out, the under secretary of defense for research and engineering or the under secretary of defense for acquisition and sustainment, as applicable, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a notice on the carrying out of such transaction as soon as is practicable after the commencement of the carrying out of such transaction. (3) in this subsection, the term ``congressional defense committees'' has the meaning given such term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, united states code. sec. 13007. (a) the president may extend the appointment of the chief of army reserve as prescribed in section 7038(c) of title 10, united states code, for the incumbent in that position as of the date of the enactment of this act until the date of the appointment of the successor to such incumbent, notwithstanding any limitation otherwise imposed on such term by such section 7038(c). (b) the president may extend the appointment of the chief of navy reserve as prescribed in section 8083(c) of title 10, united states code, for the incumbent in that position as of the date of the enactment of this act until the date of the appointment of the successor to such incumbent, notwithstanding any limitation otherwise imposed on such term by such section 8083(c). (c) the president may extend the appointment of the chief of staff of the air force prescribed in section 9033(a)(1) of title 10, united states code, for the incumbent in that position as of the date of the enactment of this act until the date of the appointment of the successor to such incumbent, notwithstanding any limitation otherwise imposed on such term by such section 9033(a)(1). (d) the president may extend the appointment of the chief of space operations, as prescribed in section 9082(a)(2) of title 10, united states code, for the incumbent in that position as of the date of the enactment of this act until the date of the appointment of the successor to such incumbent, notwithstanding any limitation otherwise imposed on such term by such section 9082(a)(2). (e) the president may extend the appointment of the chief of the national guard bureau as prescribed in section 10502(b) of title 10, united states code, for the incumbent in that position as of the date of the enactment of this act until the date of the appointment of the successor to such incumbent, notwithstanding any limitation otherwise imposed on such term by such section 10502(b). (f) the president may extend the appointment of director, army national guard and director, air national guard as prescribed in section 10506(a)(3)(d) of title 10, united states code, for the incumbent in such position as of the date of the enactment of this act until the date of the appointment of the successor to such incumbent, notwithstanding any limitation otherwise imposed on such term by such section 10506(a)(3)(d). (g) notwithstanding paragraph (4) of section 10505(a) of title 10, united states code, the secretary of defense may waive the limitations in paragraphs (2) and (3) of that section for a period of not more than 270 days. (h)(1) the president may delegate the exercise of the authorities in subsections (a) through (f) to the secretary of defense. (2) the secretary of defense may not redelegate the exercise of any authority delegated to the secretary pursuant to paragraph (1), and may not delegate the exercise of the authority in subsection (g). title iv corps of engineers--civil department of the army operation and maintenance for an additional amount for ``operation and maintenance'', $50,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. expenses for an additional amount for ``expenses'', $20,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. department of the interior bureau of reclamation water and related resources (including transfer of funds) for an additional amount for ``water and related resources'', $12,500,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that $500,000 of the funds provided under this heading in this act shall be transferred to the ``central utah project completion account'' to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. policy and administration for an additional amount for ``policy and administration'', $8,100,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. department of energy energy programs science for an additional amount for ``science'', $99,500,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, for necessary expenses related to providing support and access to scientific user facilities in the office of science and national nuclear security administration, including equipment, enabling technologies, and personnel associated with the operations of those scientific user facilities: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. departmental administration (including transfer of funds) for an additional amount for ``departmental administration'', $28,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including for necessary expenses related to supporting remote access for personnel: provided, that funds appropriated under this heading in this act may be transferred to, and merged with, other appropriation accounts of the department of energy to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including for necessary expenses related to supporting remote access for personnel: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. independent agencies nuclear regulatory commission salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $3,300,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that, notwithstanding 42 u.s.c. 2214, such amount shall not be derived from fee revenue: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general provisions--this title sec. 14001. funds appropriated in this title may be made available to restore amounts, either directly or through reimbursement, for obligations incurred to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus prior to the date of enactment of this act. sec. 14002. (a) section 404 of the bipartisan budget act of 2015 (42 u.s.c. 6239 note) is amended-- (1) in subsection (e), by striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2022''; and (2) in subsection (g), by striking ``2020'' and inserting ``2022''. (b) title iii of division c of the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-94) is amended in the matter under the heading ``department of energy--energy programs--strategic petroleum reserve'' by striking the three provisos before the final period and inserting the following: `` provided, that, as authorized by section 404 of the bipartisan budget act of 2015 (public law 114-74; 42 u.s.c. 6239 note), the secretary of energy shall draw down and sell not to exceed a total of $450,000,000 of crude oil from the strategic petroleum reserve in fiscal year 2020, fiscal year 2021, or fiscal year 2022: provided further, that the proceeds from such drawdown and sale shall be deposited into the `energy security and infrastructure modernization fund' during the fiscal year in which the sale occurs and shall be made available in such fiscal year, to remain available until expended, for necessary expenses to carry out the life extension ii project for the strategic petroleum reserve''. (c) the amount provided by this section is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. sec. 14003. any discretionary appropriation for the corps of engineers derived from the harbor maintenance trust fund (not to exceed the total amount deposited in the harbor maintenance trust fund in the prior fiscal year) shall be subtracted from the estimate of discretionary budget authority and outlays for any estimate of an appropriations act under the congressional budget and impoundment control act of 1974 or the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985: provided, that the modifications described in this section shall not take effect until the earlier of january 1, 2021 or the date of enactment of legislation authorizing the development of water resources and shall remain in effect thereafter. sec. 14004. section 14321(a)(2)(b)(ii) of title 40, united states code, is amended by inserting ``, except that a discretionary grant to respond to economic distress directly related to the impacts of the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) [[page h1795]] shall not be included in such aggregate amount'' before the period at the end. title v department of the treasury internal revenue service administrative provision--internal revenue service (including transfer of funds) sec. 15001. in addition to the amounts otherwise available to the internal revenue service in fiscal year 2020, $250,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, shall be available to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including costs associated with the extended filing season and implementation of the families first coronavirus response act: provided, that such funds may be transferred by the commissioner to the ``taxpayer services,'' ``enforcement,'' or ``operations support'' accounts of the internal revenue service for an additional amount to be used solely to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate shall be notified in advance of any such transfer: provided further, that such transfer authority is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law: provided further, that not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this act, the commissioner shall submit to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate a spending plan for such funds: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. the judiciary supreme court of the united states salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $500,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. courts of appeals, district courts, and other judicial services salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $6,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. defender services for an additional amount for ``defender services'', $1,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. administrative provision--the judiciary video teleconferencing for criminal proceedings sec. 15002. (a) definition.--in this section, the term ``covered emergency period'' means the period beginning on the date on which the president declared a national emergency under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) and ending on the date that is 30 days after the date on which the national emergency declaration terminates. (b) video teleconferencing for criminal proceedings.-- (1) in general.--subject to paragraphs (3), (4), and (5), if the judicial conference of the united states finds that emergency conditions due to the national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) will materially affect the functioning of either the federal courts generally or a particular district court of the united states, the chief judge of a district court covered by the finding (or, if the chief judge is unavailable, the most senior available active judge of the court or the chief judge or circuit justice of the circuit that includes the district court), upon application of the attorney general or the designee of the attorney general, or on motion of the judge or justice, may authorize the use of video teleconferencing, or telephone conferencing if video teleconferencing is not reasonably available, for the following events: (a) detention hearings under section 3142 of title 18, united states code. (b) initial appearances under rule 5 of the federal rules of criminal procedure. (c) preliminary hearings under rule 5.1 of the federal rules of criminal procedure. (d) waivers of indictment under rule 7(b) of the federal rules of criminal procedure. (e) arraignments under rule 10 of the federal rules of criminal procedure. (f) probation and supervised release revocation proceedings under rule 32.1 of the federal rules of criminal procedure. (g) pretrial release revocation proceedings under section 3148 of title 18, united states code. (h) appearances under rule 40 of the federal rules of criminal procedure. (i) misdemeanor pleas and sentencings as described in rule 43(b)(2) of the federal rules of criminal procedure. (j) proceedings under chapter 403 of title 18, united states code (commonly known as the ``federal juvenile delinquency act''), except for contested transfer hearings and juvenile delinquency adjudication or trial proceedings. (2) felony pleas and sentencing.-- (a) in general.--subject to paragraphs (3), (4), and (5), if the judicial conference of the united states finds that emergency conditions due to the national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) will materially affect the functioning of either the federal courts generally or a particular district court of the united states, the chief judge of a district court covered by the finding (or, if the chief judge is unavailable, the most senior available active judge of the court or the chief judge or circuit justice of the circuit that includes the district court) specifically finds, upon application of the attorney general or the designee of the attorney general, or on motion of the judge or justice, that felony pleas under rule 11 of the federal rules of criminal procedure and felony sentencings under rule 32 of the federal rules of criminal procedure cannot be conducted in person without seriously jeopardizing public health and safety, and the district judge in a particular case finds for specific reasons that the plea or sentencing in that case cannot be further delayed without serious harm to the interests of justice, the plea or sentencing in that case may be conducted by video teleconference, or by telephone conference if video teleconferencing is not reasonably available. (b) applicability to juveniles.--the video teleconferencing and telephone conferencing authority described in subparagraph (a) shall apply with respect to equivalent plea and sentencing, or disposition, proceedings under chapter 403 of title 18, united states code (commonly known as the ``federal juvenile delinquency act''). (3) review.-- (a) in general.--on the date that is 90 days after the date on which an authorization for the use of video teleconferencing or telephone conferencing under paragraph (1) or (2) is issued, if the emergency authority has not been terminated under paragraph (5), the chief judge of the district court (or, if the chief judge is unavailable, the most senior available active judge of the court or the chief judge or circuit justice of the circuit that includes the district court) to which the authorization applies shall review the authorization and determine whether to extend the authorization. (b) additional review.--if an authorization is extended under subparagraph (a), the chief judge of the district court (or, if the chief judge is unavailable, the most senior available active judge of the court or the chief judge or circuit justice of the circuit that includes the district court) to which the authorization applies shall review the extension of authority not less frequently than once every 90 days until the earlier of-- (i) the date on which the chief judge (or other judge or justice) determines the authorization is no longer warranted; or (ii) the date on which the emergency authority is terminated under paragraph (5). (4) consent.--video teleconferencing or telephone conferencing authorized under paragraph (1) or (2) may only take place with the consent of the defendant, or the juvenile, after consultation with counsel. (5) termination of emergency authority.--the authority provided under paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), and any specific authorizations issued under those paragraphs, shall terminate on the earlier of-- (a) the last day of the covered emergency period; or (b) the date on which the judicial conference of the united states finds that emergency conditions due to the national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) no longer materially affect the functioning of either the federal courts generally or the district court in question. (6) national emergencies generally.--the judicial conference of the united states and the supreme court of the united states shall consider rule amendments under chapter 131 of title 28, united states code (commonly known as the ``rules enabling act''), that address emergency measures that may be taken by the federal courts when the president declares a national emergency under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.). (7) rule of construction.--nothing in this subsection shall obviate a defendant's right to counsel under the sixth amendment to the constitution of the united states, any federal statute, or the federal rules of criminal procedure. (c) the amount provided by this section is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. district of columbia federal funds federal payment for emergency planning and security costs in the district of columbia for an additional amount for ``federal payment for emergency planning and security costs in the district of columbia'', $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. [[page h1796]] independent agencies election assistance commission election security grants for an additional amount for ``election security grants'', $400,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, for the 2020 federal election cycle: provided, that a state receiving a payment with funds provided under this heading in this act shall provide to the election assistance commission, within 20 days of each election in the 2020 federal election cycle in that state, a report that includes a full accounting of the state's uses of the payment and an explanation of how such uses allowed the state to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that, within 3 days of its receipt of a report required in the preceding proviso, the election assistance commission will transmit the report to the committee on appropriations and the committee on house administration of the house of representatives and the committee on appropriations and the committee on rules and administration of the senate: provided further, that not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this act, the election assistance commission shall make the payments to states under this heading: provided further, that any portion of a payment made to a state with funds provided under this heading in this act which is unobligated on december 31, 2020 shall be returned to the treasury: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. federal communications commission salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $200,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including to support efforts of health care providers to address coronavirus by providing telecommunications services, information services, and devices necessary to enable the provision of telehealth services during an emergency period, as defined in section 1135(g)(1) of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 1320b- 5(g)(1)): provided, that the federal communications commission may rely on the rules of the commission under part 54 of title 47, code of federal regulations, in administering the amount provided under the heading in this act if the commission determines that such administration is in the public interest: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general services administration real property activities federal buildings fund (including transfers of funds) for an additional amount to be deposited in the ``federal buildings fund'', $275,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that the amount provided under this heading in this act may be used to reimburse the fund for obligations incurred for this purpose prior to the date of the enactment of this act: provided further, that such amount may be transferred to, and merged with, accounts within the federal buildings fund in amounts necessary to cover costs incurred to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that the administrator of general services shall notify the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate quarterly on the obligations and expenditures of the funds provided by this act by account of the federal buildings fund: provided further, that funds made available to the administrator in this or any previous act shall not be subject to section 3307 of title 40, united states code, for the acquisition of space necessary to prevent, prepare for, or respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that no action taken by the administrator to acquire real property and interests in real property or to improve real property in response to coronavirus shall be deemed a federal action or undertaking and subject to review under the national environmental policy act of 1969, as amended (42 u.s.c. 4321 et seq.), or the national historic preservation act of 1966, as amended (54 u.s.c. 300101 et seq.), respectively: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general activities federal citizen services fund (including transfer of funds) for an additional amount to be deposited in the ``federal citizen services fund'', $18,650,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. working capital fund for an additional amount for ``working capital fund'', $1,500,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. administrative provision--general services administration sec. 15003. notwithstanding 41 u.s.c. 3304(a)(7)(b), the administrator, when making a determination that use of noncompetitive procedures is necessary for public interest in accordance with 41 u.s.c. 3304(a)(7)(a) in response to a public health emergency declaration by the secretary of health and human services under section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247(d)), is required to notify congress in writing of that determination not less than 3 days prior to the award of the contract. national archives and records administration operating expenses for an additional amount for ``operating expenses'', $8,100,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that the amount provided under this heading in this act may be used to provide expenses of the federal records center program for preventing, preparing for, and responding to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. office of personnel management salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $12,100,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including technologies for digital case management, short-term methods to allow electronic submissions of retirement application packages in support of paper-based business operations, and increased telecommunications: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. pandemic response accountability committee for an additional amount for ``pandemic response accountability committee'', $80,000,000, to remain available until expended, to promote transparency and support oversight of funds provided in this act to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. small business administration disaster loans program account (including transfers of funds) for an additional amount for the ``disaster loans program account'', $562,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, for the cost of direct loans authorized by section 7(b) of the small business act and for administrative expenses to carry out the disaster loan program authorized by section 7(b) of the small business act: provided, that the amounts provided under this heading in this act may be transferred to, and merged with, ``small business administration--salaries and expenses'' to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general provisions--this title pandemic response accountability committee sec. 15010. (a) in this section-- (1) the term ``agency'' has the meaning given the term in section 551 of title 5, united states code; (2) the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means-- (a) the committees on appropriations of the senate and the house of representatives; (b) the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate; (c) the committee on oversight and reform of the house of representatives; and (d) any other relevant congressional committee of jurisdiction; (3) the term ``chairperson'' means the chairperson of the committee; (4) the term ``council'' means the council of the inspectors general on integrity and efficiency established under section 11 of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app); (5) the term ``committee'' means the pandemic response accountability committee established under subsection (b); (6) the term ``covered funds'' means any funds, including loans, that are made available in any form to any non-federal entity, not including an individual, under-- (a) this act; (b) the coronavirus preparedness and response supplemental appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-123); (c) the families first coronavirus response act (public law 116-127); or (d) any other act primarily making appropriations for the coronavirus response and related activities; and (7) the term ``coronavirus response'' means the federal government's response to the nationwide public health emergency declared by the secretary of health and human services, retroactive to january 27, 2020, pursuant to section 319 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 247d), as a result of confirmed cases of [[page h1797]] the novel coronavirus (covid-19) in the united states. (b) there is established within the council the pandemic response accountability committee to promote transparency and conduct and support oversight of covered funds and the coronavirus response to-- (1) prevent and detect fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement; and (2) mitigate major risks that cut across program and agency boundaries. (c)(1) the chairperson of the committee shall be selected by the chairperson of the council from among inspectors general described in subparagraphs (b), (c), and (d) of paragraph (2) with experience managing oversight of large organizations and expenditures. (2) the members of the committee shall include-- (a) the chairperson; (b) the inspectors general of the departments of defense, education, health and human services, homeland security, justice, labor, and the treasury; (c) the inspector general of the small business administration; (d) the treasury inspector general for tax administration; and (e) any other inspector general, as designated by the chairperson from any agency that expends or obligates covered funds or is involved in the coronavirus response. (3)(a) there shall be an executive director and a deputy executive director of the committee. (b)(i)(i) not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this act, the executive director of the committee shall be appointed by the chairperson of the council, in consultation with the majority leader of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives, the minority leader of the senate, and the minority leader of the house of representatives. (ii) not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this act, the deputy executive director of the committee shall be appointed by the chairperson of the council, in consultation with the majority leader of the senate, the speaker of the house of representatives, the minority leader of the senate, the minority leader of the house of representatives, and the executive director of the committee. (ii) the executive director and the deputy executive director of the committee shall-- (i) have demonstrated ability in accounting, auditing, and financial analysis; (ii) have experience managing oversight of large organizations and expenditures; and (iii) be full-time employees of the committee. (c) the executive director of the committee shall-- (i) report directly to the chairperson; (ii) appoint staff of the committee, subject to the approval of the chairperson, consistent with subsection (f); (iii) supervise and coordinate committee functions and staff; and (iv) perform any other duties assigned to the executive director by the committee. (4)(a) members of the committee may not receive additional compensation for services performed. (b) the executive director and deputy executive director of the committee shall be compensated at the rate of basic pay prescribed for level iv of the executive schedule under section 5315 of title 5, united states code. (d)(1)(a) the committee shall conduct and coordinate oversight of covered funds and the coronavirus response and support inspectors general in the oversight of covered funds and the coronavirus response in order to-- (i) detect and prevent fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement; and (ii) identify major risks that cut across programs and agency boundaries. (b) the functions of the committee shall include-- (i) developing a strategic plan to ensure coordinated, efficient, and effective comprehensive oversight by the committee and inspectors general over all aspects of covered funds and the coronavirus response; (ii) auditing or reviewing covered funds, including a comprehensive audit and review of charges made to federal contracts pursuant to authorities provided in the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act, to determine whether wasteful spending, poor contract or grant management, or other abuses are occurring and referring matters the committee considers appropriate for investigation to the inspector general for the agency that disbursed the covered funds, including conducting randomized audits to identify fraud; (iii) reviewing whether the reporting of contracts and grants using covered funds meets applicable standards and specifies the purpose of the contract or grant and measures of performance; (iv) reviewing the economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of, and the detection of fraud, waste, abuse, and mismanagement in, coronavirus response programs and operations; (v) reviewing whether competition requirements applicable to contracts and grants using covered funds have been satisfied; (vi) serving as a liaison to the director of the office of management and budget, the secretary of the treasury, and other officials responsible for implementing the coronavirus response; (vii) reviewing whether there are sufficient qualified acquisition, grant, and other applicable personnel overseeing covered funds and the coronavirus response; (viii) reviewing whether personnel whose duties involve the coronavirus response or acquisitions or grants made with covered funds or are otherwise related to the coronavirus response receive adequate training, technology support, and other resources; (ix) reviewing whether there are appropriate mechanisms for interagency collaboration relating to the oversight of covered funds and the coronavirus response, including coordinating and collaborating to the extent practicable with state and local government entities; (x) expeditiously reporting to the attorney general any instance in which the committee has reasonable grounds to believe there has been a violation of federal criminal law; and (xi) coordinating and supporting inspectors general on matters related to oversight of covered funds and the coronavirus response. (2)(a)(i) the committee shall submit to the president and congress, including the appropriate congressional committees, management alerts on potential management, risk, and funding problems that require immediate attention. (ii) the committee shall submit to congress such other reports or provide such periodic updates on the work of the committee as the committee considers appropriate on the use of covered funds and the coronavirus response. (b) the committee shall submit biannual reports to the president and congress, including the appropriate congressional committees, and may submit additional reports as appropriate-- (i) summarizing the findings of the committee; and (ii) identifying and quantifying the impact of any tax expenditures or credits authorized under this act to the extent practicable. (c)(i) all reports submitted under this paragraph shall be made publicly available and posted on the website established under subsection (g). (ii) any portion of a report submitted under this paragraph may be redacted when made publicly available, if that portion would disclose information that is not subject to disclosure under sections 552 and 552a of title 5, united states code, or is otherwise prohibited from disclosure by law. (3)(a) the committee shall make recommendations to agencies on measures to prevent or address fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement, and to mitigate risks that cut across programs and agency boundaries, relating to covered funds and the coronavirus response. (b) not later than 30 days after receipt of a recommendation under subparagraph (a), an agency shall submit a report to the president and the appropriate congressional committees on-- (i) whether the agency agrees or disagrees with the recommendations; and (ii) any actions the agency will take to implement the recommendations, which shall also be included in the report required under section 2(b) of the gao-ig act (31 u.s.c. 1105 note). (e)(1) the committee shall conduct audits and reviews of programs, operations, and expenditures relating to covered funds and the coronavirus response and coordinate on such activities with the inspector general of the relevant agency to avoid unnecessary duplication and overlap of work. (2) the committee may-- (a) conduct its own independent investigations, audits, and reviews relating to covered funds or the coronavirus response; (b) collaborate on audits and reviews relating to covered funds with any inspector general of an agency; and (c) provide support to relevant agency inspectors general in conducting investigations, audits, and reviews relating to the covered funds and coronavirus response. (3)(a) in conducting and supporting investigations, audits, and reviews under this subsection, the committee-- (i) shall have the authorities provided under section 6 of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.); (ii) may issue subpoenas to compel the testimony of persons who are not federal officers or employees; and (iii) may enforce such subpoenas in the event of a refusal to obey by order of any appropriate united states district court as provided for under section 6 of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app). (b) the committee shall carry out the powers under paragraphs (1) and (2) in accordance with section 4(b)(1) of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.). (c) whenever information or assistance requested by the committee or an inspector general is unreasonably refused or not provided, the committee shall immediately report the circumstances to the appropriate congressional committees. (d) the committee shall leverage existing information technology resources within the council, such as oversight.gov, to carry out the duties of the committee. (4)(a) the committee may hold public hearings and committee personnel may conduct necessary inquiries. (b) the head of each agency shall make all officers and employees of that agency available to provide testimony to the committee and committee personnel. (c) the committee may issue subpoenas to compel the testimony of persons who are not federal officers or employees at such public hearings, which may be enforced in the same manner as provided for subpoenas under section 6 of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.). (5) the committee may enter into contracts to enable the committee to discharge its duties, including contracts and other arrangements for audits, studies, analyses, and other services with public agencies and with private persons, and make such payments as may be necessary to carry out the duties of the committee. (6) the committee may establish subcommittees to facilitate the ability of the committee to discharge its duties. (7) the committee may transfer funds appropriated to the committee for expenses to support [[page h1798]] administrative support services and audits, reviews, or other activities related to oversight by the committee of covered funds or the coronavirus response to any office of the inspector general or the general services administration. (f)(1)(a)(i) subject to subparagraph (b), the committee may exercise the authorities of subsections (b) through (i) of section 3161 of title 5, united states code (without regard to subsection (a) of that section) to carry out the functions of the committee under this section. (ii) for purposes of exercising the authorities described under clause (i), the term ``chairperson'' shall be substituted for the term ``head of a temporary organization''. (iii) in exercising the authorities described in clause (i), the chairperson shall consult with members of the committee. (iv) in addition to the authority provided by section 3161(c) of title 5, united states code, upon the request of an inspector general, the committee may detail, on a nonreimbursable basis, any personnel of the council to that inspector general to assist in carrying out any audit, review, or investigation pertaining to the oversight of covered funds or the coronavirus response. (b) in exercising the employment authorities under section 3161(b) of title 5, united states code, as provided under subparagraph (a) of this paragraph-- (i) section 3161(b)(2) of that title (relating to periods of appointments) shall not apply; and (ii) no period of appointment may exceed the date on which the committee terminates. (c)(i) a person employed by the committee shall acquire competitive status for appointment to any position in the competitive service for which the employee possesses the required qualifications upon the completion of 2 years of continuous service as an employee under this subsection. (ii) no person who is first employed as described in clause (i) more than 2 years after the date of enactment of this act may acquire competitive status under clause (i). (2)(a) the committee may employ annuitants covered by section 9902(g) of title 5, united states code, for purposes of the oversight of covered funds or the coronavirus response. (b) the employment of annuitants under this paragraph shall be subject to the provisions of section 9902(g) of title 5, united states code, as if the committee was the department of defense. (3) upon request of the committee for information or assistance from any agency or other entity of the federal government, the head of such entity shall, insofar as is practicable and not in contravention of any existing law, and consistent with section 6 of the inspector general act of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.), furnish such information or assistance to the committee, or an authorized designee, including an inspector general designated by the chairperson. (4) any inspector general responsible for conducting oversight related to covered funds or the coronavirus response may, consistent with the duties, responsibilities, policies, and procedures of the inspector general, provide information requested by the committee or an inspector general on the committee relating to the responsibilities of the committee. (g)(1)(a) not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this act, the committee shall establish and maintain a user-friendly, public-facing website to foster greater accountability and transparency in the use of covered funds and the coronavirus response, which shall have a uniform resource locator that is descriptive and memorable. (b) the committee shall leverage existing information technology and resources, such as oversight.gov, to the greatest extent practicable to meet the requirements under this section. (2) the website established and maintained under paragraph (1) shall be a portal or gateway to key information relating to the oversight of covered funds and the coronavirus response and provide connections to other government websites with related information. (3) in establishing and maintaining the website under paragraph (1), the committee shall ensure the following: (a) the website shall provide materials and information explaining the coronavirus response and how covered funds are being used. the materials shall be easy to understand and regularly updated. (i) the website shall provide accountability information, including findings from inspectors general, including any progress reports, audits, inspections, or other reports, including reports from or links to reports on the website of the government accountability office. (ii) the website shall provide data on relevant operational, economic, financial, grant, subgrant, contract, and subcontract information in user-friendly visual presentations to enhance public awareness of the use of covered funds and the coronavirus response. (iii) the website shall provide detailed data on any federal government awards that expend covered funds, including a unique trackable identification number for each project, information about the process that was used to award the covered funds, and for any covered funds over $150,000, a detailed explanation of any associated agreement, where applicable. (iv) the website shall include downloadable, machine- readable, open format reports on covered funds obligated by month to each state and congressional district, where applicable. (v) the website shall provide a means for the public to give feedback on the performance of any covered funds and of the coronavirus response, including confidential feedback. (vi) the website shall include detailed information on federal government awards that expend covered funds, including data elements required under the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (31 u.s.c. 6101 note), allowing aggregate reporting on awards below $50,000, as prescribed by the director of the office of management and budget. (vii) the website shall provide a link to estimates of the jobs sustained or created by this act to the extent practicable. (viii) the website shall include appropriate links to other government websites with information concerning covered funds and the coronavirus response, including federal agency and state websites. (ix) the website shall include a plan from each federal agency for using covered funds. (x) the website shall provide information on federal allocations of mandatory and other entitlement programs by state, county, or other geographical unit related to covered funds or the coronavirus response. (xi) the website shall present the data such that funds subawarded by recipients are not double counted in search results, data visualizations, or other reports. (xii) the website shall include all recommendations made to agencies relating to covered funds and the coronavirus response, as well as the status of each recommendation. (xiii) the website shall be enhanced and updated as necessary to carry out the purposes of this section. (4) the committee may exclude posting contractual or other information on the website on a case-by-case basis when necessary to protect national security or to protect information that is not subject to disclosure under sections 552 and 552a of title 5, united states code. (h)(1) nothing in this section shall affect the independent authority of an inspector general to determine whether to conduct an audit or investigation of covered funds or the coronavirus response. (2) if the committee requests that an inspector general of an agency conduct or refrain from conducting an audit or investigation and the inspector general rejects the request in whole or in part, the inspector general shall, not later than 30 days after rejecting the request, submit a report to the committee, the head of the applicable agency, and the appropriate congressional committees, that states the reasons that the inspector general has rejected the request in whole or in part. (i) the committee shall coordinate its oversight activities with the comptroller general of the united states and state auditors. (j) for the purposes of carrying out the mission of the committee under this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the duties and functions of the committee. (k) the committee shall terminate on september 30, 2025. reporting on use of funds sec. 15011. (a) in this section-- (1) the terms ``agency'', ``appropriate congressional committees'', ``committee'', ``covered funds'', and ``coronavirus response'' have the meanings given those terms in section 15010; (2) the term ``covered recipient''-- (a) means any entity that receives large covered funds; and (b) includes any state, the district of columbia, and any territory or possession of the united states; and (3) the term ``large covered funds'' means covered funds that amount to more than $150,000. (b)(1)(a) on a monthly basis until september 30, 2021, each agency shall report to the director of the office of management and budget, the bureau of fiscal service in the department of the treasury, the committee, and the appropriate congressional committees on any obligation or expenditure of large covered funds, including loans and awards. (b) not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this act, each agency shall submit to the committee a plan describing how the agency will use covered funds. (2) not later than 10 days after the end of each calendar quarter, each covered recipient shall submit to the agency and the committee a report that contains-- (a) the total amount of large covered funds received from the agency; (b) the amount of large covered funds received that were expended or obligated for each project or activity; (c) a detailed list of all projects or activities for which large covered funds were expended or obligated, including-- (i) the name of the project or activity; (ii) a description of the project or activity; and (iii) the estimated number of jobs created or retained by the project or activity, where applicable; and (d) detailed information on any level of subcontracts or subgrants awarded by the covered recipient or its subcontractors or subgrantees, to include the data elements required to comply with the federal funding accountability and transparency act of 2006 (31 u.s.c. 6101 note) allowing aggregate reporting on awards below $50,000 or to individuals, as prescribed by the director of the office of management and budget. (3) not later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter, the committee, in consultation with the agency that made large covered funds available to any covered recipient shall make the information in reports submitted under paragraph (2) publicly available by posting the information on the website established under section 15010(g). (4)(a) each agency, in coordination with the committee and the director of the office of management and budget shall provide user-friendly means for covered recipients to meet requirements of this subsection. (b) federal agencies may use existing mechanisms to ensure that information under this subsection is reported accurately. [[page h1799]] (c)(1) the director of the office of management and budget, in consultation with the secretary of the treasury, the administrator of the small business administration, and the chairperson of the council of economic advisors, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and publicly release on the website established under section 15010(g) quarterly reports that detail the impact of programs funded through large covered funds on employment, estimated economic growth, and other key economic indicators, including information about impacted industries. (2)(a) the first report submitted under paragraph (1) shall be submitted not later than 45 days after the end of the first full quarter following the date of enactment of this act. (b) the last report required to be submitted under paragraph (1) shall apply to the quarter in which the committee terminates. title vi department of homeland security management directorate operations and support for an additional amount for ``operations and support'', $178,300,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, which shall be for the purchase of personal protective equipment and sanitization materials: provided, that funds provided under this heading in this act may be transferred by the secretary of homeland security between appropriations in the department only for the purchase of personal protective equipment and sanitization materials to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that none of the funds made available under this heading may be transferred pursuant to the authority in section 503 of the department of homeland security appropriations act, 2020: provided further, that the department shall provide notice of any transfer to the committees on appropriations of the senate and the house of representatives not later than 5 days after executing such transfer: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. transportation security administration operations and support for an additional amount for ``operations and support'', $100,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, which shall be for cleaning and sanitization at checkpoints and other airport common areas; overtime and travel costs; and explosive detection materials: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. united states coast guard operations and support for an additional amount for ``operations and support'', $140,800,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, which shall be for mobilization of reservists and increasing the capability and capacity of coast guard information technology systems and infrastructure: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency operations and support for an additional amount for ``operations and support'', $9,100,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, which shall be for support of interagency critical infrastructure coordination and related activities: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. federal emergency management agency operations and support for an additional amount for ``operations and support'', $44,987,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, which shall be for enhancements to information technology and for facilities support: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. disaster relief fund for an additional amount for ``disaster relief fund'', $45,000,000,000, to remain available until expended: provided, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $25,000,000,000 shall be for major disasters declared pursuant to the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5121 et seq.): provided further, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $15,000,000,000 may be used for all purposes authorized under such act and may be used in addition to amounts designated by the congress as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(d) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985: provided further, that every 30 days the administrator shall provide the committees on appropriations of the senate and the house of representatives both projected and actual costs for funds provided under this heading for major disasters and any other expenses: provided further, that of the amounts provided under this heading, $3,000,000 shall be transferred to ``office of inspector general'' and shall remain available until expended for oversight of activities supported by funds provided under this heading: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. federal assistance for an additional amount for ``federal assistance'', $400,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $100,000,000 shall be for assistance to firefighter grants for the purchase of personal protective equipment and related supplies, including reimbursements; $100,000,000 shall be for emergency management performance grants; and $200,000,000 shall be for the emergency food and shelter program: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general provisions--this title sec. 16001. notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made available under each heading in this title, except for ``federal emergency management agency--disaster relief fund'', shall only be used for the purposes specifically described under that heading. sec. 16002. notwithstanding any other provision of law, any amounts appropriated for ``federal emergency management agency--disaster relief fund'' in this act are available only for the purposes for which they were appropriated. sec. 16003. (a) premium pay authority.--if services performed during fiscal year 2020 are determined by the head of the agency to be primarily related to preparation, prevention, or response to coronavirus, any premium pay that is funded, either directly or through reimbursement, by the federal emergency management agency shall be exempted from the aggregate of basic pay and premium pay calculated under section 5547(a) of title 5, united states code, and any other provision of law limiting the aggregate amount of premium pay payable on a biweekly or calendar year basis. (b) overtime authority.--any overtime that is funded for such services described in subsection (a), either directly or through reimbursement, by the federal emergency management agency shall be exempted from any annual limit on the amount of overtime payable in a calendar or fiscal year. (c) applicability of aggregate limitation on pay.--in determining whether an employee's pay exceeds the applicable annual rate of basic pay payable under section 5307 of title 5, united states code, the head of an executive agency shall not include pay exempted under this section. (d) limitation of pay authority.--pay exempted from otherwise applicable limits under subsection (a) shall not cause the aggregate pay earned for the calendar year in which the exempted pay is earned to exceed the rate of basic pay payable for a position at level ii of the executive schedule under section 5313 of title 5, united states code. (e) effective date.--this section shall take effect as if enacted on january 1, 2020. sec. 16004. (a) amounts provided for ``coast guard-- operations and support'' in the consolidated appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-93) may be available for pay and benefits of coast guard yard and vessel documentation personnel, non-appropriated funds personnel, and for morale, welfare and recreation programs. (b) no amounts may be used under this section from amounts that were designated by the congress for overseas contingency operations/global war on terrorism pursuant to the concurrent resolution on the budget or the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. sec. 16005. (a) notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the licensure of health-care providers, a health- care professional described in subsection (b) may practice the health profession or professions of the health-care professional at any location in any state, the district of columbia, or commonwealth, territory, or possession of the united states, or any location designated by the secretary, regardless of where such health-care professional or the patient is located, so long as the practice is within the scope of the authorized federal duties of such health-care professional. (b) definition.--as used in this section, the term ``health-care professional'' means an individual (other than a member of the coast guard, a civilian employee of the coast guard, member of the public health service who is assigned to the coast guard, or an individual with whom the secretary, pursuant to 10 u.s.c. 1091, has entered into a personal services contract to carry out health care responsibilities of the secretary at a medical treatment facility of the coast guard) who-- (1) is-- (a) an employee of the department of homeland security, (b) a detailee to the department from another federal agency, (c) a personal services contractor of the department, or (d) hired under a contract for services; (2) performs health care services as part of duties of the individual in that capacity; (3) has a current, valid, and unrestricted equivalent license certification that is-- (a) issued by a state, the district of columbia, or a commonwealth, territory, or possession of the united states; and [[page h1800]] (b) for the practice of medicine, osteopathic medicine, dentistry, nursing, emergency medical services, or another health profession; and (4) is not affirmatively excluded from practice in the licensing or certifying jurisdiction or in any other jurisdiction. (c) subsection (a) shall apply during the incident period of the emergency declared by the president on march 13, 2020, pursuant to section 501(b) of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5121(b)), and to any subsequent major declaration under section 401 of such act that supersedes such emergency declaration. sec. 16006. the secretary of homeland security, under the authority granted under section 205(b) of the real id act of 2005 (public law 109-13; 49 u.s.c. 30301 note) shall extend the deadline by which states are required to meet the driver license and identification card issuance requirements under section 202(a)(1) of such act until not earlier than september 30, 2021. sec. 16007. section 5 of the protecting and securing chemical facilities from terrorist attacks act of 2014 (public law 113-254; 6 u.s.c. 621 note) is amended by striking ``the date that is 5 years and 3 months after the effective date of this act'' and inserting ``july 23, 2020'': provided, that the amount provided by this section is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. title vii department of the interior indian affairs bureau of indian affairs operation of indian programs (including transfers of funds) for an additional amount for ``operation of indian programs'', $453,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including, but not limited to, funds for public safety and justice programs, executive direction to carry out deep cleaning of facilities, purchase of personal protective equipment, purchase of information technology to improve teleworking capability, welfare assistance and social services programs (including assistance to individuals), and assistance to tribal governments, including tribal governments who participate in the ``small and needy'' program: provided, that amounts received from funds provided under this heading in this act for welfare assistance programs shall not be included in the statutory maximum for welfare assistance funds included in public law 116-94, the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020: provided further, that assistance received from funds provided under this heading in this act shall not be included in the calculation of funds received by those tribal governments who participate in the ``small and needy'' program: provided further, that of the amounts provided under this heading in this act, not less than $400,000,000 shall be made available to meet the direct needs of tribes: provided further, that amounts provided under this heading in this act may be made available for distribution through tribal priority allocations for tribal response and capacity building activities: provided further, that funds provided under this heading in this act, if transferred to tribes and tribal organizations under the indian self-determination and education assistance act, will be transferred on a one-time basis and that these non-recurring funds are not part of the amount required by 25 u.s.c. sec. 5325: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. bureau of indian education operation of indian education programs for an additional amount for ``operation of indian education programs'', $69,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including, but not limited to, funding for tribal colleges and universities, salaries, transportation, and information technology: provided, that of the amounts provided in this paragraph, not less than $20,000,000 shall be for tribal colleges and universities: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. departmental offices office of the secretary departmental operations (including transfers of funds) for an additional amount for ``departmental operations'', $158,400,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including, but not limited to, funds for purchasing equipment and supplies to disinfect and clean buildings and public areas, supporting law enforcement and emergency management operations, biosurveillance of wildlife and environmental persistence studies, employee overtime and special pay expenses, and other response, mitigation, or recovery activities: provided, that funds appropriated under this heading in this act shall be used to absorb increased operational costs necessary to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that the secretary of the interior may transfer the funds provided under this heading in this act to any other account in the department to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, and may expend such funds directly or through cooperative agreements: provided further, that the secretary shall provide a monthly report to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate detailing the allocation and obligation of these funds by account, beginning not later than 90 days after enactment of this act: provided further, that as soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary shall transfer $1,000,000 to the office of the inspector general, ``salaries and expenses'' account for oversight activities related to the implementation of programs, activities or projects funded herein: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. insular affairs assistance to territories for an additional amount for ``assistance to territories'', $55,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, for general technical assistance: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. environmental protection agency science and technology for an additional amount for ``science and technology'', $2,250,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $750,000 shall be for necessary expenses for cleaning and disinfecting equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the environmental protection agency, and $1,500,000 shall be for research on methods to reduce the risks from environmental transmission of coronavirus via contaminated surfaces or materials: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. environmental programs and management for an additional amount for ``environmental programs and management'', $3,910,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $2,410,000 shall be for necessary expenses for cleaning and disinfecting equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the environmental protection agency, and operational continuity of environmental protection agency programs and related activities, and $1,500,000 shall be for expediting registration and other actions related to pesticides to address coronavirus: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. buildings and facilities for an additional amount for ``buildings and facilities'', $300,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that the funds provided under this heading in this act shall be for necessary expenses for cleaning and disinfecting equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the environmental protection agency: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. hazardous substance superfund for an additional amount for ``hazardous substance superfund'', $770,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that the funds provided under this heading in this act shall be for necessary expenses for cleaning and disinfecting equipment or facilities of, or for use by, the environmental protection agency: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. related agencies department of agriculture forest service forest and rangeland research for an additional amount for ``forest and rangeland research'', $3,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including for the reestablishment of abandoned or failed experiments associated with employee restrictions due to the coronavirus outbreak: provided, that amounts provided under this heading in this act shall be allocated at the discretion of the chief of the forest service: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national forest system for an additional amount for ``national forest system'', $34,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including for cleaning and disinfecting of public recreation amenities and for [[page h1801]] personal protective equipment and baseline health testing for first responders: provided, that amounts provided under this heading in this act shall be allocated at the discretion of the chief of the forest service: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. capital improvement and maintenance for an additional amount for ``capital improvement and maintenance'', $26,800,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including for janitorial services: provided, that amounts provided under this heading in this act shall be allocated at the discretion of the chief of the forest service: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. wildland fire management for an additional amount for ``wildland fire management'', $7,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including for personal protective equipment and baseline health testing for first responders: provided, that amounts provided under this heading in this act shall be allocated at the discretion of the chief of the forest service: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. department of health and human services indian health service indian health services (including transfers of funds) for an additional amount for ``indian health services'', $1,032,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including for public health support, electronic health record modernization, telehealth and other information technology upgrades, purchased/referred care, catastrophic health emergency fund, urban indian organizations, tribal epidemiology centers, community health representatives, and other activities to protect the safety of patients and staff: provided, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, up to $65,000,000 is for electronic health record stabilization and support, including for planning and tribal consultation: provided further, that of amounts provided under this heading in this act, not less than $450,000,000 shall be distributed through ihs directly operated programs and to tribes and tribal organizations under the indian self-determination and education assistance act and through contracts or grants with urban indian organizations under title v of the indian health care improvement act: provided further, that any amounts provided in this paragraph not allocated pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be allocated at the discretion of the director of the indian health service: provided further, that of the funds provided herein, up to $125,000,000 may be transferred to and merged with the ``indian health service, indian health facilities'' appropriation at the discretion of the director for the purposes specified in this act: provided further, that amounts provided under this heading in this act, if transferred to tribes and tribal organizations under the indian self-determination and education assistance act, will be transferred on a one-time basis and that these non- recurring funds are not part of the amount required by 25 u.s.c. sec. 5325, and that such amounts may only be used for the purposes identified under this heading notwithstanding any other provision of law: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. agency for toxic substances and disease registry toxic substances and environmental public health for an additional amount for ``toxic substances and environmental public health'', $12,500,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that $7,500,000 of the funds provided under this heading in this act shall be for necessary expenses of the geospatial research, analysis and services program to support spatial analysis and geographic information system mapping of infectious disease hot spots, including cruise ships: provided further, that $5,000,000 of the funds provided under this heading in this act shall be for necessary expenses for awards to pediatric environmental health specialty units and state health departments to provide guidance and outreach on safe practices for disinfection for home, school, and daycare facilities: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. other related agencies institute of american indian and alaska native culture and arts development payment to the institute for an additional amount for ``payment to the institute'', $78,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. smithsonian institution salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $7,500,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including funding for deep cleaning, security, information technology, and staff overtime: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. john f. kennedy center for the performing arts operations and maintenance for an additional amount for ``operations and maintenance'', $25,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including funding for deep cleaning and information technology to improve telework capability and for operations and maintenance requirements related to the consequences of coronavirus: provided, that notwithstanding the provisions of 20 u.s.c. 76h et seq., funds provided under this heading in this act shall be made available to cover operating expenses required to ensure the continuity of the john f. kennedy center for the performing arts and its affiliates, including for employee compensation and benefits, grants, contracts, payments for rent or utilities, fees for artists or performers, information technology, and other administrative expenses: provided further, that no later than october 31, 2020, the board of trustees of the center shall submit a report to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and senate that includes a detailed explanation of the distribution of the funds provided herein: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national foundation on the arts and humanities national endowment for the arts grants and administration for an additional amount for ``grants and administration'', $75,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, to be distributed in grants: provided, that such funds are available under the same terms and conditions as grant funding appropriated to this heading in public law 116-94: provided further, that 40 percent of such funds shall be distributed to state arts agencies and regional arts organizations and 60 percent of such funds shall be for direct grants: provided further, that notwithstanding any other provision of law, such funds may also be used by the recipients of such grants for purposes of the general operations of such recipients: provided further, that the matching requirements under subsections (e), (g)(4)(a), and (p)(3) of section 5 of the national foundation on the arts and humanities act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 954) may be waived with respect to such grants: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national endowment for the humanities grants and administration for an additional amount for ``grants and administration'', $75,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, to be distributed in grants: provided, that such funds are available under the same terms and conditions as grant funding appropriated to this heading in public law 116-94: provided further, that 40 percent of such funds shall be distributed to state humanities councils and 60 percent of such funds shall be for direct grants: provided further, that notwithstanding any other provision of law, such funds may also be used by the recipients of such grants for purposes of the general operations of such recipients: provided further, that the matching requirements under subsection (h)(2)(a) of section 7 of the national foundation on the arts and humanities act of 1965 may be waived with respect to such grants: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. title viii department of labor employment and training administration training and employment services for an additional amount for ``training and employment services'', $345,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2022, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, for necessary expenses for the dislocated workers assistance national reserve: provided, that the funds provided under this heading in this act may be used to replace grant funds previously obligated to the impacted areas: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. [[page h1802]] departmental management salaries and expenses (including transfer of funds) for an additional amount for ``departmental management'', $15,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2022, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including to enforce worker protection laws and regulations, and to oversee and coordinate activities related to division c, division d, division e, and division f of public law 116- 127: provided, that the secretary of labor may transfer the amounts provided under this heading in this act as necessary to ``employee benefits security administration'', ``wage and hour division'', ``occupational safety and health administration'', and ``employment and training administration--program administration'' to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including for enforcement, oversight, and coordination activities in those accounts: provided further, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $1,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall be transferred to ``office of inspector general'' for oversight of activities related to public law 116-127 and for oversight activities supported with funds appropriated to the department of labor to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that 15 days prior to transferring any funds pursuant to the previous provisos under the heading in this act, the secretary shall provide to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate an operating plan describing the planned uses of each amount proposed to be transferred: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. department of health and human services centers for disease control and prevention cdc-wide activities and program support (including transfer of funds) for an additional amount for ``cdc-wide activities and program support'', $4,300,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2024, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that not less than $1,500,000,000 of the amount provided under this heading in this act shall be for grants to or cooperative agreements with states, localities, territories, tribes, tribal organizations, urban indian health organizations, or health service providers to tribes, including to carry out surveillance, epidemiology, laboratory capacity, infection control, mitigation, communications, and other preparedness and response activities: provided further, that every grantee that received a public health emergency preparedness grant for fiscal year 2019 shall receive not less than 100 percent of that grant level from funds provided in the first proviso under this heading in this act: provided further, that of the amount in the first proviso, not less than $125,000,000 shall be allocated to tribes, tribal organizations, urban indian health organizations, or health service providers to tribes: provided further, that the director of the centers for disease control and prevention (``cdc'') may satisfy the funding thresholds outlined in the preceding two provisos by making awards through other grant or cooperative agreement mechanisms: provided further, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, not less than $500,000,000 shall be for global disease detection and emergency response: provided further, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, not less than $500,000,000 shall be for public health data surveillance and analytics infrastructure modernization: provided further, that cdc shall report to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate on the development of a public health surveillance and data collection system for coronavirus within 30 days of enactment of this act: provided further, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $300,000,000 shall be transferred to and merged with amounts in the infectious diseases rapid response reserve fund (``reserve fund''), established by section 231 of division b of public law 115-245: provided further, that the secretary of health and human services, in consultation with the director of the cdc, shall provide a report to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate every 14 days, for one year from the date from any such declaration or determination described in the third proviso of section 231 of division b of public law 115-245, that details commitment and obligation information for the reserve fund during the prior two weeks, as long as such report would detail obligations in excess of $5,000,000, and upon the request by such committees: provided further, that funds appropriated under this heading in this act may be used for grants for the rent, lease, purchase, acquisition, construction, alteration, or renovation of non-federally owned facilities to improve preparedness and response capability at the state and local level: provided further, that funds provided under this heading in this act may be used for purchase and insurance of official motor vehicles in foreign countries: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national institutes of health national heart, lung, and blood institute for an additional amount for ``national heart, lung, and blood institute'', $103,400,000, to remain available until september 30, 2024, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national institute of allergy and infectious diseases for an additional amount for ``national institute of allergy and infectious diseases'', $706,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2024, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that not less than $156,000,000 of the amounts provided under this heading in this act shall be provided for the study of, construction of, demolition of, renovation of, and acquisition of equipment for, vaccine and infectious diseases research facilities of or used by nih, including the acquisition of real property: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering for an additional amount for ``national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering'', $60,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2024, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national library of medicine for an additional amount for ``national library of medicine'', $10,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2024, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national center for advancing translational sciences for an additional amount for ``national center for advancing translational sciences'', $36,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2024, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. office of the director for an additional amount for ``office of the director'', $30,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2024, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that these funds shall be available for the common fund established under section 402a(c)(1) of the phs act: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. substance abuse and mental health services administration health surveillance and program support for an additional amount for ``heath surveillance and program support'', $425,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that of the amount appropriated under this heading in this act, not less than $250,000,000 is available for certified community behavioral health clinic expansion grant program: provided further, that of the amount appropriated under this heading in this act, not less than $50,000,000 shall be available for suicide prevention programs: provided further, that of the amount appropriated under this heading in this act, not less than $100,000,000 is available for activities authorized under section 501(o) of the public health service act: provided further, that of the funding made available under this heading in this act, not less than $15,000,000 shall be allocated to tribes, tribal organizations, urban indian health organizations, or health or behavioral health service providers to tribes: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. centers for medicare & medicaid services program management for an additional amount for ``program management'', $200,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2023, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically and internationally: provided, that of the amount appropriated under this heading in this act, not less than $100,000,000 shall be available for necessary expenses of the survey and certification program, prioritizing nursing home facilities in localities with community transmission of coronavirus: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. administration for children and families low income home energy assistance for an additional amount for ``low income home energy assistance'', $900,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, or respond to coronavirus, [[page h1803]] domestically or internationally, for making payments under subsection (b) of section 2602 of the low-income home energy assistance act of 1981 (42 u.s.c. 8621 et seq.): provided, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, $225,000,000 shall be allocated as though the total appropriation for such payments for fiscal year 2020 was less than $1,975,000,000: provided further, that section 2607(b)(2)(b) of such act (42 u.s.c. 8626(b)(2)(b)) shall not apply to funds made available under this heading in this act in fiscal year 2020: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. payments to states for the child care and development block grant for an additional amount for ``payments to states for the child care and development block grant'', $3,500,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including for federal administrative expenses, which shall be used to supplement, not supplant state, territory, and tribal general revenue funds for child care assistance for low-income families within the united states (including territories) without regard to requirements in sections 658e(c)(3)(d)-(e) or 658g of the child care and development block grant act: provided, that funds provided under this heading in this act may be used to provide continued payments and assistance to child care providers in the case of decreased enrollment or closures related to coronavirus, and to assure they are able to remain open or reopen as appropriate and applicable: provided further, that states, territories, and tribes are encouraged to place conditions on payments to child care providers that ensure that child care providers use a portion of funds received to continue to pay the salaries and wages of staff: provided further, that the secretary shall remind states that ccdbg state plans do not need to be amended prior to utilizing existing authorities in the ccdbg act for the purposes provided herein: provided further, that states, territories, and tribes are authorized to use funds appropriated under this heading in this act to provide child care assistance to health care sector employees, emergency responders, sanitation workers, and other workers deemed essential during the response to coronavirus by public officials, without regard to the income eligibility requirements of section 658p(4) of such act: provided further, that funds appropriated under this heading in this act shall be available to eligible child care providers under section 658p(6) of the ccdbg act, even if such providers were not receiving ccdbg assistance prior to the public health emergency as a result of the coronavirus, for the purposes of cleaning and sanitation, and other activities necessary to maintain or resume the operation of programs: provided further, that payments made under this heading in this act may be obligated in this fiscal year or the succeeding two fiscal years: provided further, that funds appropriated under this heading in this act may be made available to restore amounts, either directly or through reimbursement, for obligations incurred to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, prior to the date of enactment of this act: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. children and families services programs for an additional amount for ``children and families services programs'', $1,874,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, which shall be used as follows: (1) $1,000,000,000 for carrying out activities under sections 674 through 679 of the community services block grant act, including for federal administrative expenses, and of which no part shall be subject to section 674(b)(3) of such act: provided, that to the extent community services block grant funds are distributed as grant funds by a state to an eligible entity as provided under such act, and have not been expended by such entity, they shall remain with such entity for carryover into the next two fiscal years for expenditure by such entity consistent with program purpose: provided further, that for services furnished under such act during fiscal years 2020 and 2021, states may apply the last sentence of section 673(2) of such act by substituting ``200 percent'' for ``125 percent''; (2) $750,000,000 for making payments under the head start act, including for federal administrative expenses, and allocated in an amount that bears the same ratio to such portion as the number of enrolled children served by the agency involved bears to the number of enrolled children by all head start agencies: provided further, that none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be included in the calculation of the ``base grant'' in subsequent fiscal years, as such term is defined in sections 640(a)(7)(a), 641a(h)(1)(b), or 645(d)(3) of the head start act: provided further, that funds appropriated in this paragraph are not subject to the allocation requirements of section 640(a) of the head start act: provided further, that up to $500,000,000 shall be available for the purpose of operating supplemental summer programs through non- competitive grant supplements to existing grantees determined to be most ready to operate those programs by the office of head start; (3) $2,000,000 for the national domestic violence hotline as authorized by section 303(b) of the family violence prevention and services act: provided further, that the secretary may make such funds available for providing hotline services remotely; (4) $45,000,000 for family violence prevention and services formula grants as authorized by section 303(a) of the family violence and prevention and services act with such funds available to grantees without regard to matching requirements under section 306(c)(4) of such act: provided further, that the secretary may make such funds available for providing temporary housing and assistance to victims of family, domestic, and dating violence; (5) $25,000,000 for carrying out activities under the runaway and homeless youth act: provided further, that such amounts shall be used to supplement, not supplant, existing funds and shall be available without regard to matching requirements; (6) $45,000,000 shall be used for child welfare services as authorized by subpart 1 of part b of title iv of the social security act (other than sections 426, 427, and 429 of such subpart), with such funds available to grantees without regard to matching requirements under section 424(a) of that act or any applicable reductions in federal financial participation under section 424(f) of that act; and (7) $7,000,000 for federal administrative expenses: provided further, that funds appropriated under this heading in this act may be made available to restore amounts, either directly or through reimbursement, for obligations incurred to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, prior to the date of enactment of this act: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. administration for community living aging and disability services programs for an additional amount for ``aging and disability services programs'', $955,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that of the amount made available under this heading in this act to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, $820,000,000 shall be for activities authorized under the older americans act of 1965 (``oaa''), including $200,000,000 for supportive services under part b of title iii; $480,000,000 for nutrition services under subparts 1 and 2 of part c of title iii; $20,000,000 for nutrition services under title vi; $100,000,000 for support services for family caregivers under part e of title iii; and $20,000,000 for elder rights protection activities, including the long-term ombudsman program under title vii of such act: provided further, that of the amount made available under this heading in this act, $50,000,000 shall be for aging and disability resource centers authorized in sections 202(b) and 411 of the oaa to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that of the amount made available under this heading in this act to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, $85,000,000 shall be available for centers for independent living that have received grants funded under part c of chapter i of title vii of the rehabilitation act of 1973: provided further, that to facilitate state use of funds provided under this heading in this act, matching requirements under sections 304(d)(1)(d) and 373(g)(2) of the oaa shall not apply to funds made available under this heading in this act: provided further, that the transfer authority under section 308(b)(4)(a) of the oaa shall apply to funds made available under this heading in this act by substituting ``100 percent'' for ``40 percent'': provided further, that the state long-term care ombudsman shall have continuing direct access (or other access through the use of technology) to residents of long-term care facilities during any portion of the public health emergency relating to coronavirus beginning on the date of enactment of this act and ending on september 30, 2020, to provide services described in section 712(a)(3)(b) of the oaa: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. office of the secretary public health and social services emergency fund (including transfer of funds) for an additional amount for ``public health and social services emergency fund'', $27,014,500,000, to remain available until september 30, 2024, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including the development of necessary countermeasures and vaccines, prioritizing platform-based technologies with u.s.- based manufacturing capabilities, the purchase of vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, necessary medical supplies, as well as medical surge capacity, addressing blood supply chain, workforce modernization, telehealth access and infrastructure, initial advanced manufacturing, novel dispensing, enhancements to the u.s. commissioned corps, and other preparedness and response activities: provided, that funds appropriated under this paragraph in this act may be used to develop and demonstrate innovations and enhancements to manufacturing platforms to support such capabilities: provided further, that the secretary of health and human services shall purchase vaccines developed using funds made available under this paragraph in this act to respond to an outbreak or pandemic related to coronavirus in quantities determined by the secretary to be adequate to address the public health need: provided further, that products purchased by the federal government with funds made available under this paragraph in this act, including vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics, shall be purchased in accordance with federal acquisition regulation guidance on fair and reasonable [[page h1804]] pricing: provided further, that the secretary may take such measures authorized under current law to ensure that vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics developed from funds provided in this act will be affordable in the commercial market: provided further, that in carrying out the previous proviso, the secretary shall not take actions that delay the development of such products: provided further, that products purchased with funds appropriated under this paragraph in this act may, at the discretion of the secretary of health and human services, be deposited in the strategic national stockpile under section 319f-2 of the public health service act: provided further, that of the amount appropriated under this paragraph in this act, not more than $16,000,000,000 shall be for the strategic national stockpile under section 319f-2(a) of such act: provided further, that funds appropriated under this paragraph in this act may be transferred to, and merged with, the fund authorized by section 319f-4, the covered countermeasure process fund, of the public health service act: provided further, that of the amount appropriated under this paragraph in this act, not less than $250,000,000 shall be available for grants to or cooperative agreements with entities that are either grantees or sub-grantees of the hospital preparedness program authorized in section 319c-2 of the public health service act or that meet such other criteria as the secretary may prescribe, with such awards issued under such section or section 311 of such act: provided further, that of the amount provided under this paragraph in this act, not less than $3,500,000,000 shall be available to the biomedical advanced research and development authority for necessary expenses of manufacturing, production, and purchase, at the discretion of the secretary, of vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, and small molecule active pharmaceutical ingredients, including the development, translation, and demonstration at scale of innovations in manufacturing platforms: provided further, that funds in the previous proviso may be used for the construction or renovation of u.s.-based next generation manufacturing facilities, other than facilities owned by the united states government: provided further, that of the amount appropriated under this paragraph in this act, funds may be used to reimburse the department of veterans affairs for expenses incurred by the veterans health administration to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, and to provide medical care for such purposes to individuals not otherwise eligible for care: provided further, that funds used for the preceding proviso shall be made available to reimburse the department of veterans affairs only if the secretary of health and human services certifies to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate that funds available for assignments under public law 93-288, as amended, are insufficient and such funds are necessary to reimburse the department of veterans affairs for expenses incurred to provide health care to civilians: provided further, that the secretary shall notify the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate not less than 3 days prior to such certification: provided further, that of the amounts appropriated under this paragraph in this act, not more than $289,000,000 may be transferred as necessary to other federal agencies for necessary expenses related to medical care that are incurred to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus for persons eligible for treatment pursuant to section 322 of the public health service act, as amended, as determined by the secretary of the recipient agency: provided further, that of the amount appropriated under this paragraph in this act, $1,500,000 shall be available for the secretary to enter into an agreement with the national academies of sciences, engineering, and medicine not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this act to examine, and, in a manner that does not compromise national security, report on, the security of the united states medical product supply chain: provided further, that funds appropriated under this paragraph in this act may be used for grants for the construction, alteration, or renovation of non-federally owned facilities to improve preparedness and response capability at the state and local level: provided further, that funds appropriated under this paragraph in this act may be used for the construction, alteration, or renovation of non-federally owned facilities for the production of vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics where the secretary determines that such a contract is necessary to secure sufficient amounts of such supplies: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. for an additional amount for the ``public health and social services emergency fund'', $275,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2022, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that $90,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this paragraph shall be transferred to ``health resources and services administration--ryan white hiv/aids program'' to remain available until september 30, 2022 for modifications to existing contracts, and supplements to existing grants and cooperative agreements under parts a, b, c, d, and section 2692(a) of title xxvi of the public health service act (referred to as ``phs'' act) to respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that supplements made in the preceding proviso shall be awarded using a data-driven methodology determined by the secretary: provided further, that sections 2604(c), 2612(b), and 2651(c) of the phs act shall not apply to funds under this paragraph: provided further, that $5,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this paragraph shall be transferred to ``health resources and services administration--health care systems'' to remain available until september 30, 2022, for activities under sections 1271 and 1273 of the phs act to improve the capacity of poison control centers to respond to increased calls: provided further, that $180,000,000 of the funds appropriated under this paragraph shall be transferred to ``health resources and services administration--rural health'' to remain available until september 30, 2022, to carry out telehealth and rural health activities under sections 330a and 330i of the phs act and sections 711 and 1820 of the social security act to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided further, that of the funding in the previous proviso, no less than $15,000,000 shall be allocated to tribes, tribal organizations, urban indian health organizations, or health service providers to tribes: provided further, that section 1820(g)(3)(a), section 1820(g)(3)(d) and section 1820(g)(3)(e) of such act shall not apply to funds in the preceding two provisos: provided further, that funds appropriated under this heading in this act may be made available to restore amounts, either directly or through reimbursement, for obligations incurred to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, prior to the date of enactment of this act: provided further, that for the purposes of any funding provided for fiscal year 2020 for the health centers program pursuant to section 330 of the phs act (42 u.s.c. 254b), maintaining or increasing health center capacity and staffing levels during a public health emergency related to coronavirus shall be deemed a cost of prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of coronavirus: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. for an additional amount for ``public health and social services emergency fund'', $100,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, for necessary expenses to reimburse, through grants or other mechanisms, eligible health care providers for health care related expenses or lost revenues that are attributable to coronavirus: provided, that these funds may not be used to reimburse expenses or losses that have been reimbursed from other sources or that other sources are obligated to reimburse: provided further, that recipients of payments under this paragraph shall submit reports and maintain documentation as the secretary determines are needed to ensure compliance with conditions that are imposed by this paragraph for such payments, and such reports and documentation shall be in such form, with such content, and in such time as the secretary may prescribe for such purpose: provided further, that ``eligible health care providers'' means public entities, medicare or medicaid enrolled suppliers and providers, and such for-profit entities and not-for-profit entities not otherwise described in this proviso as the secretary may specify, within the united states (including territories), that provide diagnoses, testing, or care for individuals with possible or actual cases of covid-19: provided further, that the secretary of health and human services shall, on a rolling basis, review applications and make payments under this paragraph in this act: provided further, that funds appropriated under this paragraph in this act shall be available for building or construction of temporary structures, leasing of properties, medical supplies and equipment including personal protective equipment and testing supplies, increased workforce and trainings, emergency operation centers, retrofitting facilities, and surge capacity: provided further, that, in this paragraph, the term ``payment'' means a pre-payment, prospective payment, or retrospective payment, as determined appropriate by the secretary: provided further, that payments under this paragraph shall be made in consideration of the most efficient payment systems practicable to provide emergency payment: provided further, that to be eligible for a payment under this paragraph, an eligible health care provider shall submit to the secretary of health and human services an application that includes a statement justifying the need of the provider for the payment and the eligible health care provider shall have a valid tax identification number: provided further, that, not later than 3 years after final payments are made under this paragraph, the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services shall transmit a final report on audit findings with respect to this program to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate: provided further, that nothing in this section limits the authority of the inspector general or the comptroller general to conduct audits of interim payments at an earlier date: provided further, that not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of health and human services shall provide a report to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate on obligation of funds, including obligations to such eligible health care providers summarized by state of the payment receipt: provided further, that such reports shall be updated and submitted to such committees every 60 days until funds are expended: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. department of education education stabilization fund for an additional amount for ``education stabilization fund'', $30,750,000,000, to remain [[page h1805]] available through september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general provisions education stabilization fund sec. 18001. (a) allocations.--from the amount made available under this heading in this act to carry out the education stabilization fund, the secretary shall first allocate-- (1) not more than 1/2 of 1 percent to the outlying areas on the basis of their respective needs, as determined by the secretary, in consultation with the secretary of the interior; (2) one-half of 1 percent for the secretary of interior, in consultation with the secretary of education, for programs operated or funded by the bureau of indian education; and (3) 1 percent for grants to states with the highest coronavirus burden to support activities under this heading in this act, for which the secretary shall issue a notice inviting applications not later than 30 days of enactment of this act and approve or deny applications not later than 30 days after receipt. (b) reservations.--after carrying out subsection (a), the secretary shall reserve the remaining funds made available as follows: (1) 9.8 percent to carry out section 18002 of this title. (2) 43.9 percent to carry out section 18003 of this title. (3) 46.3 percent to carry out section 18004 of this title. governor's emergency education relief fund sec. 18002. (a) grants.--from funds reserved under section 18001(b)(1) of this title, the secretary shall make emergency education relief grants to the governor of each state with an approved application. the secretary shall issue a notice inviting applications not later than 30 days of enactment of this act and shall approve or deny applications not later than 30 days after receipt. (b) allocations.--the amount of each grant under subsection (a) shall be allocated by the secretary to each state as follows: (1) 60 percent on the basis of their relative population of individuals aged 5 through 24. (2) 40 percent on the basis of their relative number of children counted under section 1124(c) of the elementary and secondary education act of 1965 (referred to under this heading as ``esea''). (c) uses of funds.--grant funds awarded under subsection (b) may be used to-- (1) provide emergency support through grants to local educational agencies that the state educational agency deems have been most significantly impacted by coronavirus to support the ability of such local educational agencies to continue to provide educational services to their students and to support the on-going functionality of the local educational agency; (2) provide emergency support through grants to institutions of higher education serving students within the state that the governor determines have been most significantly impacted by coronavirus to support the ability of such institutions to continue to provide educational services and support the on-going functionality of the institution; and (3) provide support to any other institution of higher education, local educational agency, or education related entity within the state that the governor deems essential for carrying out emergency educational services to students for authorized activities described in section 18003(d)(1) of this title or the higher education act, the provision of child care and early childhood education, social and emotional support, and the protection of education-related jobs. (d) reallocation.--each governor shall return to the secretary any funds received under this section that the governor does not award within one year of receiving such funds and the secretary shall reallocate such funds to the remaining states in accordance with subsection (b). elementary and secondary school emergency relief fund sec. 18003. (a) grants.--from funds reserved under section 18001(b)(2) of this title, the secretary shall make elementary and secondary school emergency relief grants to each state educational agency with an approved application. the secretary shall issue a notice inviting applications not later than 30 days of enactment of this act and approve or deny applications not later than 30 days after receipt. (b) allocations to states.--the amount of each grant under subsection (a) shall be allocated by the secretary to each state in the same proportion as each state received under part a of title i of the esea of 1965 in the most recent fiscal year. (c) subgrants to local educational agencies.--each state shall allocate not less than 90 percent of the grant funds awarded to the state under this section as subgrants to local educational agencies (including charter schools that are local educational agencies) in the state in proportion to the amount of funds such local educational agencies and charter schools that are local educational agencies received under part a of title i of the esea of 1965 in the most recent fiscal year. (d) uses of funds.--a local educational agency that receives funds under this title may use the funds for any of the following: (1) any activity authorized by the esea of 1965, including the native hawaiian education act and the alaska native educational equity, support, and assistance act (20 u.s.c. 6301 et seq.), the individuals with disabilities education act (20 u.s.c. 1400 et seq.) (``idea''), the adult education and family literacy act (20 u.s.c. 1400 et seq.), the carl d. perkins career and technical education act of 2006 (20 u.s.c. 2301 et seq.) (``the perkins act''), or subtitle b of title vii of the mckinney-vento homeless assistance act (42 u.s.c. 11431 et seq.). (2) coordination of preparedness and response efforts of local educational agencies with state, local, tribal, and territorial public health departments, and other relevant agencies, to improve coordinated responses among such entities to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus. (3) providing principals and others school leaders with the resources necessary to address the needs of their individual schools. (4) activities to address the unique needs of low-income children or students, children with disabilities, english learners, racial and ethnic minorities, students experiencing homelessness, and foster care youth, including how outreach and service delivery will meet the needs of each population. (5) developing and implementing procedures and systems to improve the preparedness and response efforts of local educational agencies. (6) training and professional development for staff of the local educational agency on sanitation and minimizing the spread of infectious diseases. (7) purchasing supplies to sanitize and clean the facilities of a local educational agency, including buildings operated by such agency. (8) planning for and coordinating during long-term closures, including for how to provide meals to eligible students, how to provide technology for online learning to all students, how to provide guidance for carrying out requirements under the individuals with disabilities education act (20 u.s.c. 1401 et seq.) and how to ensure other educational services can continue to be provided consistent with all federal, state, and local requirements. (9) purchasing educational technology (including hardware, software, and connectivity) for students who are served by the local educational agency that aids in regular and substantive educational interaction between students and their classroom instructors, including low-income students and students with disabilities, which may include assistive technology or adaptive equipment. (10) providing mental health services and supports. (11) planning and implementing activities related to summer learning and supplemental afterschool programs, including providing classroom instruction or online learning during the summer months and addressing the needs of low-income students, students with disabilities, english learners, migrant students, students experiencing homelessness, and children in foster care. (12) other activities that are necessary to maintain the operation of and continuity of services in local educational agencies and continuing to employ existing staff of the local educational agency. (e) state funding.--with funds not otherwise allocated under subsection (c), a state may reserve not more than 1/2 of 1 percent for administrative costs and the remainder for emergency needs as determined by the state educational agency to address issues responding to coronavirus, which may be addressed through the use of grants or contracts. (f) reallocation.--a state shall return to the secretary any funds received under this section that the state does not award within 1 year of receiving such funds and the secretary shall reallocate such funds to the remaining states in accordance with subsection (b). higher education emergency relief fund sec. 18004. (a) in general.--the secretary shall allocate funding under this section as follows: (1) 90 percent to each institution of higher education to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, by apportioning it-- (a) 75 percent according to the relative share of full-time equivalent enrollment of federal pell grant recipients who are not exclusively enrolled in distance education courses prior to the coronavirus emergency; and (b) 25 percent according to the relative share of full-time equivalent enrollment of students who were not federal pell grant recipients who are not exclusively enrolled in distance education courses prior to the coronavirus emergency. (2) 7.5 percent for additional awards under parts a and b of title iii, parts a and b of title v, and subpart 4 of part a of title vii of the higher education act to address needs directly related to coronavirus, that shall be in addition to awards made in section 18004(a)(1) of this title, and allocated by the secretary proportionally to such programs based on the relative share of funding appropriated to such programs in the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-94) and which may be used to defray expenses (including lost revenue, reimbursement for expenses already incurred, technology costs associated with a transition to distance education, faculty and staff trainings, payroll) incurred by institutions of higher education and for grants to students for any component of the student's cost of attendance (as defined under section 472 of the higher education act), including food, housing, course materials, technology, health care, and child care. (3) 2.5 percent for part b of title vii of the higher education act for institutions of higher education that the secretary determines have the greatest unmet needs related to coronavirus, which may be used to defray expenses (including lost revenue, reimbursement for expenses already incurred, technology costs associated with a transition to distance education, faculty and staff trainings, payroll) incurred by institutions [[page h1806]] of higher education and for grants to students for any component of the student's cost of attendance (as defined under section 472 of the higher education act), including food, housing, course materials, technology, health care, and child care. (b) distribution.--the funds made available to each institution under subsection (a)(1) shall be distributed by the secretary using the same systems as the secretary otherwise distributes funding to each institution under title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1001 et seq.). (c) uses of funds.--except as otherwise specified in subsection (a), an institution of higher education receiving funds under this section may use the funds received to cover any costs associated with significant changes to the delivery of instruction due to the coronavirus, so long as such costs do not include payment to contractors for the provision of pre-enrollment recruitment activities; endowments; or capital outlays associated with facilities related to athletics, sectarian instruction, or religious worship. institutions of higher education shall use no less than 50 percent of such funds to provide emergency financial aid grants to students for expenses related to the disruption of campus operations due to coronavirus (including eligible expenses under a student's cost of attendance, such as food, housing, course materials, technology, health care, and child care). (d) special provisions.--(1) in awarding grants under section 18004(a)(3) of this title, the secretary shall give priority to any institution of higher education that is not otherwise eligible for funding under paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 18004(a) of this title of at least $500,000 and demonstrates significant unmet needs related to expenses associated with coronavirus. (2) a historically black college and university or a minority serving institution may use prior awards provided under titles iii, v, and vii of the higher education act to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus. (e) report.--an institution receiving funds under this section shall submit a report to the secretary, at such time and in such manner as the secretary may require, that describes the use of funds provided under this section. assistance to non-public schools sec. 18005. (a) in general.--a local educational agency receiving funds under sections 18002 or 18003 of this title shall provide equitable services in the same manner as provided under section 1117 of the esea of 1965 to students and teachers in non-public schools, as determined in consultation with representatives of non-public schools. (b) public control of funds.--the control of funds for the services and assistance provided to a non-public school under subsection (a), and title to materials, equipment, and property purchased with such funds, shall be in a public agency, and a public agency shall administer such funds, materials, equipment, and property and shall provide such services (or may contract for the provision of such services with a public or private entity). continued payment to employees sec. 18006. a local educational agency, state, institution of higher education, or other entity that receives funds under ``education stabilization fund'', shall to the greatest extent practicable, continue to pay its employees and contractors during the period of any disruptions or closures related to coronavirus. definitions sec. 18007. except as otherwise provided in sections 18001-18006 of this title, as used in such sections-- (1) the terms ``elementary education'' and ``secondary education'' have the meaning given such terms under state law; (2) the term ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given such term in title i of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1001 et seq.); (3) the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of education; (4) the term ``state'' means each of the 50 states, the district of columbia, and the commonwealth of puerto rico; (5) the term ``cost of attendance'' has the meaning given such term in section 472 of the higher education act of 1965. (6) the term ``non-public school'' means a non-public elementary and secondary school that (a) is accredited, licensed, or otherwise operates in accordance with state law; and (b) was in existence prior to the date of the qualifying emergency for which grants are awarded under this section; (7) the term ``public school'' means a public elementary or secondary school; and (8) any other term used that is defined in section 8101 of the elementary and secondary education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 7801) shall have the meaning given the term in such section. maintenance of effort sec. 18008. (a) a state's application for funds to carry out sections 18002 or 18003 of this title shall include assurances that the state will maintain support for elementary and secondary education, and state support for higher education (which shall include state funding to institutions of higher education and state need-based financial aid, and shall not include support for capital projects or for research and development or tuition and fees paid by students) in fiscal years 2020 and 2021 at least at the levels of such support that is the average of such state's support for elementary and secondary education and for higher education provided in the 3 fiscal years preceding the date of enactment of this act. (b) the secretary may waive the requirement in subsection (a) for the purpose of relieving fiscal burdens on states that have experienced a precipitous decline in financial resources. safe schools and citizenship education for an additional amount for ``safe schools and citizenship education'', $100,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, to supplement funds otherwise available for ``project serv'', including to help elementary, secondary and postsecondary schools clean and disinfect affected schools, and assist in counseling and distance learning and associated costs: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. gallaudet university for an additional amount for ``gallaudet university'', $7,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including to help defray the expenses directly caused by coronavirus and to enable grants to students for expenses directly related to coronavirus and the disruption of university operations: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. student aid administration for an additional amount for ``student aid administration'', $40,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, for carrying out part d of title i, and subparts 1, 3, 9 and 10 of part a, and parts b, c, d, and e of title iv of the hea, and subpart 1 of part a of title vii of the public health service act: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. howard university for an additional amount for ``howard university'', $13,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including to help defray the expenses directly caused by coronavirus and to enable grants to students for expenses directly related to coronavirus and the disruption of university operations: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. departmental management program administration for an additional amount for ``program administration'', $8,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2021 to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. office of the inspector general for an additional amount for ``office of the inspector general'', $7,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2022, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including for salaries and expenses necessary for oversight and audit of programs, grants, and projects funded in this act to respond to coronavirus: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. corporation for public broadcasting for an additional amount for ``corporation for public broadcasting'', $75,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including for fiscal stabilization grants to public telecommunications entities, as defined by 47 u.s.c. 397(12), with no deduction for administrative or other costs of the corporation, to maintain programming and services and preserve small and rural stations threatened by declines in non-federal revenues: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. institute of museum and library services office of museum and library services: grants and administration for an additional amount for ``institute of museum and library services'', $50,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including grants to states, territories and tribes to expand digital network access, purchase internet accessible devices, and provide technical support services: provided, that any matching funds requirements for states, tribes, libraries, and museums are waived for grants provided with funds made available under this heading in this act: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. railroad retirement board limitation on administration for an additional amount for the ``railroad retirement board'', $5,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including the purchase of information technology equipment to improve the mobility of the workforce [[page h1807]] and provide for additional hiring or overtime hours as needed to administer the railroad unemployment insurance act: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. social security administration limitation on administrative expenses for an additional amount for ``limitation on administrative expenses'', $300,000,000, to remain available through september 30, 2021 to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including paying the salaries and benefits of all employees affected as a result of office closures, telework, phone and communication services for employees, overtime costs, and supplies, and for resources necessary for processing disability and retirement workloads and backlogs: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general provisions--this title (including transfer of funds) sec. 18108. funds appropriated by this title may be used by the secretary of the department of health and human services to appoint, without regard to the provisions of sections 3309 through 3319 of title 5 of the united states code, candidates needed for positions to perform critical work relating to coronavirus for which-- (1) public notice has been given; and (2) the secretary of health and human services has determined that such a public health threat exists. sec. 18109. funds made available by this title may be used to enter into contracts with individuals for the provision of personal services (as described in section 104 of part 37 of title 48, code of federal regulations (48 cfr 37.104)) to support the prevention of, preparation for, or response to coronavirus, domestically and internationally, subject to prior notification to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate: provided, that such individuals may not be deemed employees of the united states for the purpose of any law administered by the office of personnel management: provided further, that the authority made available pursuant to this section shall expire on september 30, 2024. sec. 18110. (a) if services performed by an employee during fiscal year 2020 are determined by the head of the agency to be primarily related to preparation, prevention, or response to coronavirus, any premium pay for such services shall be disregarded in calculating the aggregate of such employee's basic pay and premium pay for purposes of a limitation under section 5547(a) of title 5, united states code, or under any other provision of law, whether such employee's pay is paid on a biweekly or calendar year basis. (b) any overtime pay for such services shall be disregarded in calculating any annual limit on the amount of overtime pay payable in a calendar or fiscal year. (c) with regard to such services, any pay that is disregarded under either subsection (a) or (b) shall be disregarded in calculating such employee's aggregate pay for purposes of the limitation in section 5307 of such title 5. (d)(1) pay that is disregarded under subsection (a) or (b) shall not cause the aggregate of the employee's basic pay and premium pay for the applicable calendar year to exceed the rate of basic pay payable for a position at level ii of the executive schedule under section 5313 of title 5, united states code, as in effect at the end of such calendar year. (2) for purposes of applying this subsection to an employee who would otherwise be subject to the premium pay limits established under section 5547 of title 5, united states code, ``premium pay'' means the premium pay paid under the provisions of law cited in section 5547(a). (3) for purposes of applying this subsection to an employee under a premium pay limit established under an authority other than section 5547 of title 5, united states code, the agency responsible for administering such limit shall determine what payments are considered premium pay. (e) this section shall take effect as if enacted on february 2, 2020. (f) if application of this section results in the payment of additional premium pay to a covered employee of a type that is normally creditable as basic pay for retirement or any other purpose, that additional pay shall not-- (1) be considered to be basic pay of the covered employee for any purpose; or (2) be used in computing a lump-sum payment to the covered employee for accumulated and accrued annual leave under section 5551 or section 5552 of title 5, united states code. sec. 18111. funds appropriated by this title to the heading ``department of health and human services'' may be transferred to, and merged with, other appropriation accounts under the headings ``centers for disease control and prevention'', ``public health and social services emergency fund'', ``administration for children and families'', ``administration for community living'', and ``national institutes of health'' to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus following consultation with the office of management and budget: provided, that the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate shall be notified 10 days in advance of any such transfer: provided further, that, upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from an appropriation by this title are not necessary, such amounts may be transferred back to that appropriation: provided further, that none of the funds made available by this title may be transferred pursuant to the authority in section 205 of division a of public law 116- 94 or section 241(a) of the phs act. sec. 18112. not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of health and human services shall provide a detailed spend plan of anticipated uses of funds made available to the department of health and human services in this act, including estimated personnel and administrative costs, to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate: provided, that such plans shall be updated and submitted to such committees every 60 days until september 30, 2024: provided further, that the spend plans shall be accompanied by a listing of each contract obligation incurred that exceeds $5,000,000 which has not previously been reported, including the amount of each such obligation. sec. 18113. of the funds appropriated by this title under the heading ``public health and social services emergency fund'', up to $4,000,000 shall be transferred to, and merged with, funds made available under the heading ``office of the secretary, office of inspector general'', and shall remain available until expended, for oversight of activities supported with funds appropriated to the department of health and human services to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that the inspector general of the department of health and human services shall consult with the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate prior to obligating such funds: provided further, that the transfer authority provided by this section is in addition to any other transfer authority provided by law. sec. 18114. (a) funds appropriated in title iii of the coronavirus preparedness and response supplemental appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-123) shall be paid to the ``department of homeland security--countering weapons of mass destruction office--federal assistance''account for costs incurred, including to reimburse costs incurred prior to the enactment of this act, under other transaction authority and related to screening for coronavirus, domestically or internationally. (b) the term coronavirus has the meaning given the term in section 506 of the coronavirus preparedness and response supplemental appropriations act, 2020. (c) the amounts repurposed in this section that were previously designated by the congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985 are designated by the congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. sec. 18115. (a) in general.--every laboratory that performs or analyzes a test that is intended to detect sars-cov-2 or to diagnose a possible case of covid-19 shall report the results from each such test, to the secretary of health and human services in such form and manner, and at such timing and frequency, as the secretary may prescribe until the end of the secretary's public health emergency declaration with respect to covid-19 or any extension of such declaration. (b) laboratories covered.--the secretary may prescribe which laboratories must submit reports pursuant to this section. (c) implementation.--the secretary may make prescriptions under this section by regulation, including by interim final rule, or by guidance, and may issue such regulations or guidance without regard to the procedures otherwise required by section 553 of title 5, united states code. (d) repealer.--section 1702 of division a of the families first coronavirus response act is repealed. title ix legislative branch senate contingent expenses of the senate sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate for an additional amount for ``sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate'', $1,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. miscellaneous items for an additional amount for ``miscellaneous items'', $9,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, subject to approval by the committee on appropriations of the senate and the senate committee on rules and administration: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. house of representatives salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $25,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, except that $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, to be allocated in accordance with a spend plan submitted to the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives by the chief administrative officer and approved by such committee: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. [[page h1808]] joint items office of the attending physician for an additional amount for ``office of the attending physician'', $400,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. capitol police salaries for an additional amount for ``salaries'', $12,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that the capitol police may transfer amounts appropriated under this heading in this act to ``general expenses'' without the approval requirement of 2 u.s.c. 1907(a): provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. architect of the capitol capital construction and operations for an additional amount for ``capital construction and operations'', $25,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including to purchase and distribute cleaning and sanitation products throughout all facilities and grounds under the care of the architect of the capitol, wherever located, and any related services and operational costs: provided, that the architect of the capitol shall provide a report within 30 days enactment of this act, and every 30 days thereafter, to the committees on appropriations of the senate and house of representatives, the senate committee on rules and administration, and the committee on house administration on expenditure of funds from amounts appropriated under this heading in this act: provided further, that this amount shall be in addition to any other funds available for such purposes in appropriations acts for the legislative branch: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. library of congress salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $700,000, to remain available until september 30, 2020, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, to be made available to the little scholars child development center, subject to approval by the committees on appropriations of the senate and house of representatives, the senate committee on rules and administration, and the committee on house administration: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. government accountability office salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $20,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, for audits and investigations and for reimbursement of the tiny findings child development center for salaries for employees, as authorized by this act: provided, that not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this act, the government accountability office shall submit to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate a spend plan specifying funding estimates and a timeline for such audits and investigations: provided further, that $600,000 shall be made available to the tiny findings child development center, subject to approval by the committees on appropriations of the senate and house of representatives, the senate committee on rules and administration, and the committee on house administration: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general provisions--this title source of funds used for payment of salaries and expenses of senate employee child care center sec. 19001. the secretary of the senate shall reimburse the senate employee child care center for personnel costs incurred starting on april 1, 2020, for employees of such center who have been ordered to cease working due to measures taken in the capitol complex to combat coronavirus, not to exceed $84,000 per month, from amounts in the appropriations account ``miscellaneous items'' within the contingent fund of the senate. source of funds used for payment of salaries and expenses of house of representatives child care center sec. 19002. (a) authorizing use of revolving fund or appropriated funds.--section 312(d)(3)(a) of the legislative branch appropriations act, 1992 (2 u.s.c. 2062(d)(3)(a)) is amended-- (1) in subparagraph (a), by striking the period at the end and inserting the following: ``, and, at the option of the chief administrative officer during an emergency situation, the payment of the salary of other employees of the center.''; and (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: ``(c) during an emergency situation, the payment of such other expenses for activities carried out under this section as the chief administrative officer determines appropriate.''. (b) effective date.--the amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2020 and each succeeding fiscal year. payments to ensure continuing availability of goods and services during the coronavirus emergency sec. 19003. (a) authorization to make payments.-- notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to subsection (b), during an emergency situation, the chief administrative officer of the house of representatives may make payments under contracts with vendors providing goods and services to the house in amounts and under terms and conditions other than those provided under the contract in order to ensure that those goods and services remain available to the house throughout the duration of the emergency. (b) conditions.-- (1) approval required.--the chief administrative officer may not make payments under the authority of subsection (a) without the approval of the committee on house administration of the house of representatives. (2) availability of appropriations.--the authority of the chief administrative officer to make payments under the authority of subsection (a) is subject to the availability of appropriations to make such payments. (c) applicability.--this section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2020 and each succeeding fiscal year. source of funds used for payment of salaries and expenses of little scholars child development center sec. 19004. the library of congress shall reimburse little scholars child development center for salaries for employees incurred from april 1, 2020, to september 30, 2020, for employees of such center who have been ordered to cease working due to measures taken in the capitol complex to combat coronavirus, not to exceed $113,000 per month, from amounts in the appropriations account ``library of congress-- salaries and expenses''. authorizing payments under service contracts during the coronavirus emergency sec. 19005. (a) authorizing payments.--notwithstanding section 3324(a) of title 31, united states code, or any other provision of law and subject to subsection (b), if the employees of a contractor with a service contract with the architect of the capitol are furloughed or otherwise unable to work during closures, stop work orders, or reductions in service arising from or related to the impacts of coronavirus, the architect of the capitol may continue to make the payments provided for under the contract for the weekly salaries and benefits of such employees for not more than 16 weeks. (b) availability of appropriations.--the authority of the architect of the capitol to make payments under the authority of subsection (a) is subject to the availability of appropriations to make such payments. (c) regulations.--the architect of the capitol shall promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this section. mass mailings as franked mail sec. 19006. (a) waiver.--section 3210(a)(6)(d) of title 39, united states code, is amended by striking the period at the end of the first sentence and inserting the following: ``, and in the case of the commission, to waive this paragraph in the case of mailings sent in response to or to address threats to life safety.''. (b) effective date.--the amendments made by this subsection shall apply with respect to mailings sent on or after the date of the enactment of this act. technical correction sec. 19007. in the matter preceding the first proviso under the heading ``library of congress--salaries and expenses'' in division e of the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-94), strike `` $504,164,000'' and insert `` $510,164,000''. conforming amendment sec. 19008. section 110(a)(1)(a) of the family and medical leave act of 1993 (as added by section 3102 of the families first coronavirus response act (public law 116-127)) is amended-- (1) by inserting before ``in lieu of'' the following: ``(i) in general.--''; and (2) by adding at the end the following: ``(ii) special rule.--for purposes of applying section 102(a)(1)(f) and this section under the congressional accountability act of 1995, in lieu of the definition in section 202(a)(2)(b) of that act (2 u.s.c. 1312(a)(2)(b)), the term `eligible employee' means a covered employee (as defined in section 101 of that act (2 u.s.c. 1301)) who has been employed for at least 30 calendar days by the employing office (as so defined) with respect to whom leave is requested under section 102(a)(1)(f).''. source of funds used for payment of salaries and expenses of tiny findings child development center sec. 19009. the government accountability office may reimburse the tiny findings child development center for salaries for employees incurred from april 1, 2020, to september 30, 2020, for employees of such center who have been ordered to cease working due to measures taken in the capitol complex to combat coronavirus, not to exceed $100,000 per month, from amounts in the appropriations account ``government accountability office--salaries and expenses''. oversight and audit authority sec. 19010. (a) definitions.--in this section-- (1) the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means-- [[page h1809]] (a) the committee on appropriations of the senate; (b) the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate; (c) the committee on health, education, labor, and pensions of the senate; (d) the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives; (e) the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives; (f) the committee on oversight and reform of the house of representatives; and (g) the committee on energy and commerce of the house of representatives; and (2) the term ``comptroller general'' means the comptroller general of the united states. (b) authority.--the comptroller general shall conduct monitoring and oversight of the exercise of authorities, or the receipt, disbursement, and use of funds made available, under this act or any other act to prepare for, respond to, and recover from the coronavirus 2019 pandemic and the effect of the pandemic on the health, economy, and public and private institutions of the united states, including public health and homeland security efforts by the federal government and the use of selected funds under this or any other act related to the coronavirus 2019 pandemic and a comprehensive audit and review of charges made to federal contracts pursuant to authorities provided in the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act. (c) briefings and reports.--in conducting monitoring and oversight under subsection (b), the comptroller general shall-- (1) during the period beginning on the date of enactment of this act and ending on the date on which the national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) expires, offer regular briefings on not less frequently than a monthly basis to the appropriate congressional committees regarding federal public health and homeland security efforts; (2) publish reports regarding the ongoing monitoring and oversight efforts, which, along with any audits and investigations conducted by the comptroller general, shall be submitted to the appropriate congressional committees and posted on the website of the government accountability office-- (a) not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this act, and every other month thereafter until the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment of this act; and (b) after the period described in subparagraph (a), on a periodic basis; and (3) submit to the appropriate congressional committees additional reports as warranted by the findings of the monitoring and oversight activities of the comptroller general. (d) access to information.-- (1) right of access.--in conducting monitoring and oversight activities under this section, the comptroller general shall have access to records, upon request, of any federal, state, or local agency, contractor, grantee, recipient, or subrecipient pertaining to any federal effort or assistance of any type related to the coronavirus 2019 pandemic under this act or any other act, including private entities receiving such assistance. (2) copies.--the comptroller general may make and retain copies of any records accessed under paragraph (1) as the comptroller general determines appropriate. (3) interviews.--in addition to such other authorities as are available, the comptroller general or a designee of the comptroller general may interview federal, state, or local officials, contractor staff, grantee staff, recipients, or subrecipients pertaining to any federal effort or assistance of any type related to the coronavirus 2019 pandemic under this or any other act, including private entities receiving such assistance. (4) inspection of facilities.--as determined necessary by the comptroller general, the government accountability office may inspect facilities at which federal, state, or local officials, contractor staff, grantee staff, or recipients or subrecipients carry out their responsibilities related to the coronavirus 2019 pandemic. (5) enforcement.--access rights under this subsection shall be subject to enforcement consistent with section 716 of title 31, united states code. (e) relationship to existing authority.--nothing in this section shall be construed to limit, amend, supersede, or restrict in any manner any existing authority of the comptroller general. national emergency relief authority for the register of copyrights sec. 19011. (a) amendment.--chapter 7 of title 17, united states code, is amended by adding at the end the following: ``sec. 710. emergency relief authority ``(a) emergency action.--if, on or before december 31, 2021, the register of copyrights determines that a national emergency declared by the president under the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1601 et seq.) generally disrupts or suspends the ordinary functioning of the copyright system under this title, or any component thereof, including on a regional basis, the register may, on a temporary basis, toll, waive, adjust, or modify any timing provision (including any deadline or effective period, except as provided in subsection (c)) or procedural provision contained in this title or chapters ii or iii of title 37, code of federal regulations, for no longer than the register reasonably determines to be appropriate to mitigate the impact of the disruption caused by the national emergency. in taking such action, the register shall consider the scope and severity of the particular national emergency, and its specific effect with respect to the particular provision, and shall tailor any remedy accordingly. ``(b) notice and effect.--any action taken by the register in response to a national emergency pursuant to subsection (a) shall not be subject to section 701(e) or subchapter ii of chapter 5 of title 5, united states code, and chapter 7 of title 5, united states code. the provision of general public notice detailing the action being taken by the register in response to the national emergency under subsection (a) is sufficient to effectuate such action. the register may make such action effective both prospectively and retroactively in relation to a particular provision as the register determines to be appropriate based on the timing, scope, and nature of the public emergency, but any action by the register may only be retroactive with respect to a deadline that has not already passed before the declaration described in subsection (a). ``(c) statement required.--except as provided in subsection (d), not later than 20 days after taking any action that results in a provision being modified for a cumulative total of longer than 120 days, the register shall submit to congress a statement detailing the action taken, the relevant background, and rationale for the action. ``(d) exceptions.--the authority of the register to act under subsection (a) does not extend provisions under this title requiring the commencement of an action or proceeding in federal court within a specified period of time, except that if the register adjusts the license availability date defined in section 115(e)(15), such adjustment shall not affect the ability to commence actions for any claim of infringement of exclusive rights provided by paragraphs (1) and (3) of section 106 against a digital music provider arising from the unauthorized reproduction or distribution of a musical work by such digital music provider in the course of engaging in covered activities that accrued after january 1, 2018, provided that such action is commenced within the time periods prescribed under section 115(d)(10)(c)(i) or 115(d)(10)(c)(ii) as calculated from the adjusted license availability date. if the register adjusts the license availability date, the register must provide the statement to congress under subsection (c) at the same time as the public notice of such adjustment with a detailed explanation of why such adjustment is needed. ``(e) copyright term exception.--the authority of the register to act under subsection (a) does not extend to provisions under chapter 3, except section 304(c), or section 1401(a)(2). ``(f) other laws.--notwithstanding section 301 of the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1631), the authority of the register under subsection (a) is not contingent on a specification made by the president under such section or any other requirement under that act (other than the emergency declaration under section 201(a) of such act (50 u.s.c. 1621(a))). the authority described in this section supersedes the authority of title ii of the national emergencies act (50 u.s.c. 1621 et seq.).''. (b) technical and conforming amendment.--the table of sections for chapter 7 of title 17, united states code, is amended by adding at the end the following: ``710. emergency relief authority.''. (c) emergency requirement.--the amount provided by this section is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. title x department of veterans affairs veterans benefits administration general operating expenses, veterans benefits administration for an additional amount for ``general operating expenses, veterans benefits administration'', $13,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. veterans health administration medical services for an additional amount for ``medical services'', $14,432,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including related impacts on health care delivery, and for support to veterans who are homeless or at risk of becoming homeless: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. medical community care for an additional amount for ``medical community care'', $2,100,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including related impacts on health care delivery: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. medical support and compliance for an additional amount for ``medical support and compliance'', $100,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including related impacts on health care delivery: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to [[page h1810]] section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. medical facilities for an additional amount for ``medical facilities'', $606,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including related impacts on health care delivery: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. departmental administration general administration for an additional amount for ``general administration'', $6,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. information technology systems for an additional amount for ``information technology systems'', $2,150,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including related impacts on health care delivery: provided, that the secretary shall transmit to the committees on appropriations of both houses of congress a spend plan detailing the allocation of such funds between pay and associated costs, operations and maintenance, and information technology systems development: provided further, that after such transmittal is provided, funds may only be reprogrammed among the three subaccounts referenced in the previous proviso after the secretary of veterans affairs submits notice to the committees on appropriations of both houses of congress: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. office of inspector general for an additional amount for ``office of inspector general'', $12,500,000, to remain available until september 30, 2022, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, for oversight and audit of programs, activities, grants and projects funded under this title: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. grants for construction of state extended care facilities for an additional amount for ``grants for construction of state extended care facilities'', $150,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including to modify or alter existing hospital, nursing home, and domiciliary facilities in state homes: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. related agencies armed forces retirement home trust fund for an additional amount for the ``armed forces retirement home trust fund'', $2,800,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, to be paid from funds available in the armed forces retirement home trust fund: provided, that of the amounts made available under this heading from funds available in the armed forces retirement home trust fund, $2,800,000 shall be paid from the general fund of the treasury to the trust fund: provided further, that the chief executive officer of the armed forces retirement home shall submit to the committees on appropriations of both houses of congress monthly reports detailing obligations, expenditures, and planned activities: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general provisions--this title (including transfer of funds) sec. 20001. amounts made available for the department of veterans affairs in this title, under the ``medical services'', ``medical community care'', ``medical support and compliance'', and ``medical facilities'' accounts may be transferred among the accounts to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically and internationally: provided, that any transfers among the ``medical services'', ``medical community care'', ``medical support and compliance'', and ``medical facilities'' accounts of 2 percent or less of the total amount appropriated to an account in this title may take place subject to notification from the secretary of veterans affairs to the committees on appropriations of both houses of congress of the amount and purpose of the transfer: provided further, that any transfers among the ``medical services'', ``medical community care'', ``medical support and compliance'', and ``medical facilities'' accounts in excess of 2 percent of the total amount appropriated to an account in this title, or exceeding a cumulative 2 percent for all of the funds provided in this title, may take place only after the secretary requests from the committees on appropriations of both houses of congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued. sec. 20002. for all of the funds appropriated in this title the secretary of veterans affairs shall submit to the committees on appropriations of both houses of congress monthly reports detailing obligations, expenditures, and planned activities. public health emergency sec. 20003. in this title, the term ``public health emergency'' means an emergency with respect to covid-19 declared by a federal, state, or local authority. short-term agreements or contracts with telecommunications providers to expand telemental health services for isolated veterans during a public health emergency sec. 20004. (a) in general.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of veterans affairs may enter into short-term agreements or contracts with telecommunications companies to provide temporary, complimentary or subsidized, fixed and mobile broadband services for the purposes of providing expanded mental health services to isolated veterans through telehealth or va video connect during a public health emergency. (b) eligibility.-- (1) in general.--the secretary may expand eligibility for services described in subsection (a) from the department of veterans affairs to include veterans already receiving care from the department who may not be eligible for mental health services or other health care services delivered through telehealth or va video connect. (2) priority.--for purposes of expanding eligibility under paragraph (1), the secretary shall prioritize-- (a) veterans who are in unserved and underserved areas; (b) veterans who reside in rural and highly rural areas, as defined in the rural-urban commuting areas coding system of the department of agriculture; (c) low-income veterans; and (d) any other veterans that the secretary considers to be at a higher risk for suicide and mental health concerns during isolation periods due to a public health emergency. (c) definitions.--in this section: (1) telehealth.-- (a) in general.--the term ``telehealth'' means the use of electronic information and telecommunications technologies to support and promote long-distance clinical health care, patient and professional health-related education, public health, and health administration. (b) technologies.--for purposes of subparagraph (a), telecommunications technologies include videoconferencing, the internet, streaming media, and terrestrial and wireless communications. (2) va video connect.--the term ``va video connect'' means the program of the department of veterans affairs to connect veterans with their health care team from anywhere, using encryption to ensure a secure and private session. treatment of state homes during public health emergency sec. 20005. (a) waiver of occupancy rate requirements.-- during a public health emergency, occupancy rate requirements for state homes for purposes of receiving per diem payments set forth in section 51.40(c) of title 38, code of federal regulations, or successor regulations, shall not apply. (b) waiver of veteran percentage requirements.--during a public health emergency, the veteran percentage requirements for state homes set forth in section 51.210(d) of title 38, code of regulations, or successor regulations, and in agreements for grants to construct state homes, shall not apply. (c) provision of medicine, equipment, and supplies.-- (1) in general.--during a public health emergency, the secretary of veterans affairs may provide to state homes medicines, personal protective equipment, medical supplies, and any other equipment, supplies, and assistance available to the department of veterans affairs. (2) provision of equipment.--personal protective equipment may be provided under paragraph (1) through the all hazards emergency cache of the department of veterans affairs or any other source available to the department. (d) definitions.--in this section: (1) personal protective equipment.--the term ``personal protective equipment'' means any protective equipment required to prevent the wearer from contracting covid-19, including gloves, n-95 respirator masks, gowns, goggles, face shields, or other equipment required for safety. (2) public health emergency.--the term ``public health emergency'' means an emergency with respect to covid-19 declared by a federal, state, or local authority. (3) state home.--the term ``state home'' has the meaning given that term in section 101(19) of title 38, united states code. modifications to veteran directed care program of department of veterans affairs sec. 20006. (a) telephone or telehealth renewals.--for the veteran directed care program of the department of veterans affairs (in this section referred to as the ``program''), during a public health emergency, the secretary of veterans affairs shall-- (1) waive the requirement that an area agency on aging process new enrollments and six-month renewals for the program via an in-person or home visit; and (2) allow new enrollments and sixth-month renewals for the program to be conducted via telephone or telehealth modality. (b) no suspension or disenrollment.--during a public health emergency, the secretary shall not suspend or dis-enroll a veteran or caregiver of a veteran from the program unless-- [[page h1811]] (1) requested to do so by the veteran or a representative of the veteran; or (2) a mutual decision is made between the veteran and a health care provider of the veteran to suspend or dis-enroll the veteran or caregiver from the program. (c) waiver of paperwork requirement.--during a public health emergency, the secretary may waive the requirement for signed, mailed paperwork to confirm the enrollment or renewal of a veteran in the program and may allow verbal consent of the veteran via telephone or telehealth modality to suffice for purposes of such enrollment or renewal. (d) waiver of other requirements.--during a public health emergency, the secretary shall waive-- (1) any penalty for late paperwork relating to the program; and (2) any requirement to stop payments for veterans or caregivers of veterans under the program if they are out of state for more than 14 days. (e) area agency on aging defined.--in this section, the term ``area agency on aging'' has the meaning given that term in section 102 of the older americans act of 1965 (42 u.s.c. 3002). provision by department of veterans affairs of prosthetic appliances through non-department providers during public health emergency sec. 20007. the secretary of veterans affairs shall ensure that, to the extent practicable, veterans who are receiving or are eligible to receive a prosthetic appliance under section 1714 or 1719 of title 38, united states code, are able to receive such an appliance that the secretary determines is needed from a non-department of veterans affairs provider under a contract with the department during a public health emergency. waiver of pay caps for employees of department of veterans affairs during public health emergencies sec. 20008. (a) in general.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of veterans affairs may waive any limitation on pay for an employee of the department of veterans affairs during a public health emergency for work done in support of response to the emergency. (b) reporting.-- (1) in general.--for each month that the secretary waives a limitation under subsection (a), the secretary shall submit to the committee on veterans' affairs of the senate and the committee on veterans' affairs of the house of representatives a report on the waiver. (2) contents.--each report submitted under paragraph (1) for a waiver or waivers in a month shall include the following: (a) where the waiver or waivers were used, including in which component of the department and, as the case may be, which medical center of the department. (b) for how many employees the waiver or waivers were used, disaggregated by component of the department and, if applicable, medical center of the department. (c) the average amount by which each payment exceeded the waived pay limitation that was waived, disaggregated by component of the department and, if applicable, medical center of the department. (c) employee of the department of veterans affairs defined.--in this section, the term ``employee of the department of veterans affairs'' includes any employee of the department of veterans affairs, regardless of the authority under which the employee was hired. provision by department of veterans affairs of personal protective equipment for home health workers sec. 20009. (a) provision of equipment.-- (1) in general.--during a public health emergency, the secretary of veterans affairs shall provide to employees and contractors of the department of veterans affairs personal protective equipment necessary to provide home care to veterans under the laws administered by the secretary. (2) source of equipment.--personal protective equipment may be provided under paragraph (1) through the all hazards emergency cache of the department or any other source available to the department. (b) definitions.--in this section: (1) home care.--the term ``home care'' has the meaning given that term in section 1803(c) of title 38, united states code. (2) personal protective equipment.--the term ``personal protective equipment'' means any protective equipment required to prevent the wearer from contracting covid-19, including gloves, n-95 respirator masks, gowns, goggles, face shields, or other equipment required for safety. clarification of treatment of payments for purposes of eligibility for veterans pension and other veterans benefits sec. 20010. amounts paid to a person under the 2020 recovery rebate in the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act shall not be treated as income or resources for purposes of determining eligibility for pension under chapter 15 of title 38, united states code, or any other benefit under a law administered by the secretary of veterans affairs. availability of telehealth for case managers and homeless veterans sec. 20011. the secretary of veterans affairs shall ensure that telehealth capabilities are available during a public health emergency for case managers of, and homeless veterans participating in, the department of housing and urban development-department of veterans affairs supportive housing program (commonly referred to as ``hud-vash''). funding limits for financial assistance for supportive services for very low-income veteran families in permanent housing during a public health emergency sec. 20012. in the case of a public health emergency, nothing in subsection (e)(1) of section 2044 of title 38, united states code, may be construed as limiting amounts that may be made available for carrying out subsections (a), (b), and (c) of such section. modifications to comprehensive service programs for homeless veterans during a public health emergency sec. 20013. (a) rule of construction.--in the case of a public health emergency, no authorization of appropriations in section 2014 of title 38, united states code, may be construed as limiting amounts that may be appropriated for carrying out subchapter ii of chapter 20 of such title. (b) grants and per diem payments.--in the case of a public health emergency, the secretary of veterans affairs may waive any limits on-- (1) grant amounts under sections 2011 and 2061 of title 38, united states code; and (2) rates for per diem payments under sections 2012 and 2061 of such title. (c) participant absence.--notwithstanding veterans health administration handbook 1162.01(1), dated july 12, 2013, and amended june 30, 2014, and titled ``grant and per diem (gpd) program'', or any other provision of law, for the duration of a public health emergency, the secretary-- (1) shall waive any requirement to discharge a veteran from the grant and per diem program of the veterans health administration after the veteran is absent for 14 days; and (2) may continue to pay per diem to grant recipients and eligible entities under the program for any additional days of absence when a veteran has already been absent for more than 72 hours. sec. 20014. the amounts provided by sections 20003 through 20013 of this title in this act are designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. title xi department of state administration of foreign affairs diplomatic programs for an additional amount for ``diplomatic programs'', $324,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2022, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including for necessary expenses to maintain consular operations and to provide for evacuation expenses and emergency preparedness: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. united states agency for international development funds appropriated to the president operating expenses for an additional amount for ``operating expenses'', $95,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2022, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. bilateral economic assistance funds appropriated to the president international disaster assistance for an additional amount for ``international disaster assistance'', $258,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. department of state migration and refugee assistance for an additional amount for ``migration and refugee assistance'', $350,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. independent agencies peace corps for an additional amount for ``peace corps'', $88,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2022, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general provisions--this title (including transfer of funds) sec. 21001. the authorities and limitations of section 402 of the coronavirus preparedness and response supplemental appropriations act (division a of public law 116-123) shall apply to funds appropriated by this title as follows: (1) subsections (a), (d), (e), and (f) shall apply to funds under the heading ``diplomatic programs''; and (2) subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f) shall apply to funds under the heading ``international disaster assistance''. sec. 21002. funds appropriated by this title under the headings ``diplomatic programs'', ``operating expenses'', and ``peace corps'' may be used to reimburse such accounts administered by the department of state, the united states agency for international development, and the peace corps, as appropriate, for obligations incurred to prevent, prepare for, and respond to [[page h1812]] coronavirus prior to the date of enactment of this act. sec. 21003. the reporting requirement of section 406(b) of the coronavirus preparedness and response supplemental appropriations act, 2020 (division a of public law 116-123) shall apply to funds appropriated by this title: provided, that the requirement to jointly submit such report shall not apply to the director of the peace corps: provided further, that reports required by such section may be consolidated and shall include information on all funds made available to such federal agencies to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus. sec. 21004. section 7064(a) of the department of state, foreign operations, and related programs appropriations act, 2020 (division g of public law 116-94) is amended by striking `` $100,000,000'' and inserting in lieu thereof `` $110,000,000'', and by adding the following before the period at the end: ``: provided, that no amounts may be used that were designated by the congress for overseas contingency operations/global war on terrorism pursuant to the concurrent resolution on the budget or the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985''. sec. 21005. the department of state, foreign operations, and related programs appropriations act, 2020 (division g of public law 116-94) is amended under the heading ``emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service'' in title i by striking `` $1,000,000'' and inserting in lieu thereof `` $5,000,000''. sec. 21006. the department of state, foreign operations, and related programs appropriations act, 2020 (division g of public law 116-94) is amended under the heading ``millennium challenge corporation'' in title iii by striking `` $105,000,000'' in the first proviso and inserting in lieu thereof `` $107,000,000''. sec. 21007. notwithstanding any other provision of law, and in addition to leave authorized under any other provision of law, the secretary of state and the administrator of the united states agency for international development may, in order to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, provide additional paid leave to address employee hardships resulting from coronavirus: provided, that this authority shall apply to leave taken since january 29, 2020, and may be provided abroad and domestically: provided further, that the secretary and the administrator shall consult with the committee on appropriations and the committee on foreign relations of the senate and the committee on appropriations and the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives prior to implementation of such authority: provided further, that the authority made available pursuant to this section shall expire on september 30, 2022. sec. 21008. the secretary of state, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, may exercise the authorities of section 3(j) of the state department basic authorities act of 1956 (22 u.s.c. 2670(j)) to provide medical services or related support for private united states citizens, nationals, and permanent resident aliens abroad, or third country nationals connected to such persons or to the diplomatic or development missions of the united states abroad, who are unable to obtain such services or support otherwise: provided, that such assistance shall be provided on a reimbursable basis to the extent feasible: provided further, that such reimbursements may be credited to the applicable department of state appropriation and shall remain available until expended: provided further, that the secretary shall prioritize providing medical services or related support to individuals eligible for the health program under section 904 of the foreign service act of 1980 (22 u.s.c. 4084): provided further, that the authority made available pursuant to this section shall expire on september 30, 2022. sec. 21009. notwithstanding section 6(b) of the department of state authorities act of 2006 (public law 109-472; 120 stat. 3556), during fiscal year 2020, passport and immigrant visa surcharges collected in any fiscal year pursuant to the fourth paragraph under the heading ``diplomatic and consular programs'' in the department of state and related agency appropriations act, 2005 (title iv of division b of public law 108-447; 8 u.s.c. 1714) may be obligated and expended for the costs of providing consular services: provided, that such funds should be prioritized for united states citizen services: provided further, that not later than 90 days after the expiration of this authority, the secretary of state shall provide a report to the committee on appropriations and the committee on foreign relations of the senate and the committee on appropriations and the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives detailing the specific expenditures made pursuant to this authority: provided further, that the amount provided by this section is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. sec. 21010. the department of state and the united states agency for international development are authorized to enter into contracts with individuals for the provision of personal services (as described in section 104 of part 37 of title 48, code of federal regulations and including pursuant to section 904 of the foreign service act of 1980 (22 u.s.c. 4084)) to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, within the united states and abroad, subject to prior consultation with, and the notification procedures of, the committee on appropriations and the committee on foreign relations of the senate and the committee on appropriations and the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives: provided, that such individuals may not be deemed employees of the united states for the purpose of any law administered by the office of personnel management: provided further, that not later than 15 days after utilizing this authority, the secretary of state shall provide a report to the committee on appropriations and the committee on foreign relations of the senate and the committee on appropriations and the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives on the overall staffing needs for the office of medical services: provided further, that the authority made available pursuant to this section shall expire on september 30, 2022. sec. 21011. notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of state and the administrator of the united states agency for international development may authorize any oath of office required by law to, in particular circumstances that could otherwise pose health risks, be administered remotely, subject to appropriate verification: provided, that prior to initially exercising the authority of this section, the secretary and the administrator shall each submit a report to the committee on appropriations and the committee on foreign relations of the senate and the committee on appropriations and the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives describing the process and procedures for administering such oaths, including appropriate verification: provided further, that the authority made available pursuant to this section shall expire on september 30, 2021. sec. 21012. (a) purposes.--for purposes of strengthening the ability of foreign countries to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus and to the adverse economic impacts of coronavirus, in a manner that would protect the united states from the spread of coronavirus and mitigate an international economic crisis resulting from coronavirus that may pose a significant risk to the economy of the united states, each paragraph of subsection (b) shall take effect upon enactment of this act. (b) coronavirus responses.-- (1) international development association replenishment.-- the international development association act (22 u.s.c. 284 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section: ``sec. 31. nineteenth replenishment. ``(a) in general.--the united states governor of the international development association is authorized to contribute on behalf of the united states $3,004,200,000 to the nineteenth replenishment of the resources of the association, subject to obtaining the necessary appropriations. ``(b) authorization of appropriations.--in order to pay for the united states contribution provided for in subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, $3,004,200,000 for payment by the secretary of the treasury.''. (2) international finance corporation authorization.--the international finance corporation act (22 u.s.c. 282 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section: ``sec. 18. capital increases and amendment to the articles of agreement. ``(a) votes authorized.--the united states governor of the corporation is authorized to vote in favor of-- ``(1) a resolution to increase the authorized capital stock of the corporation by 16,999,998 shares, to implement the conversion of a portion of the retained earnings of the corporation into paid-in capital, which will result in the united states being issued an additional 3,771,899 shares of capital stock, without any cash contribution; ``(2) a resolution to increase the authorized capital stock of the corporation on a general basis by 4,579,995 shares; and ``(3) a resolution to increase the authorized capital stock of the corporation on a selective basis by 919,998 shares. ``(b) amendment of the articles of agreement.--the united states governor of the corporation is authorized to agree to and accept an amendment to article ii, section 2(c)(ii) of the articles of agreement of the corporation that would increase the vote by which the board of governors of the corporation may increase the capital stock of the corporation from a four-fifths majority to an eighty-five percent majority.''. (3) african development bank.--the african development bank act (22 u.s.c. 290i et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section: ``sec. 1345. seventh capital increase. ``(a) subscription authorized.-- ``(1) in general.--the united states governor of the bank may subscribe on behalf of the united states to 532,023 additional shares of the capital stock of the bank. ``(2) limitation.--any subscription by the united states to the capital stock of the bank shall be effective only to such extent and in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations acts. ``(b) authorization of appropriations.-- ``(1) in general.--in order to pay for the increase in the united states subscription to the bank under subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, $7,286,587,008 for payment by the secretary of the treasury. ``(2) share types.--of the amount authorized to be appropriated under paragraph (1)-- ``(a) $437,190,016 shall be for paid in shares of the bank; and ``(b) $6,849,396,992 shall be for callable shares of the bank.''. (4) african development fund.--the african development fund act (22 u.s.c. 290g et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section: ``sec. 226. fifteenth replenishment. ``(a) in general.--the united states governor of the fund is authorized to contribute on [[page h1813]] behalf of the united states $513,900,000 to the fifteenth replenishment of the resources of the fund, subject to obtaining the necessary appropriations. ``(b) authorization of appropriations.--in order to pay for the united states contribution provided for in subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated, without fiscal year limitation, $513,900,000 for payment by the secretary of the treasury.''. (5) international monetary fund authorization for new arrangements to borrow.-- (a) in general.--section 17 of the bretton woods agreements act (22 u.s.c. 286e-2) is amended-- (i) in subsection (a)-- (i) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) as paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), respectively; (ii) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph: ``(3) in order to carry out the purposes of a one-time decision of the executive directors of the international monetary fund (the fund) to expand the resources of the new arrangements to borrow, established pursuant to the decision of january 27, 1997, referred to in paragraph (1), the secretary of the treasury is authorized to make loans, in an amount not to exceed the dollar equivalent of 28,202,470,000 of special drawing rights, in addition to any amounts previously authorized under this section, except that prior to activation of the new arrangements to borrow, the secretary of the treasury shall report to congress whether supplementary resources are needed to forestall or cope with an impairment of the international monetary system and whether the fund has fully explored other means of funding to the fund.''; (iii) in paragraph (5), as so redesignated, by striking ``paragraph (3)'' and inserting ``paragraph (4)''; and (iv) in paragraph (6), as so redesignated, by striking ``december 16, 2022'' and inserting ``december 31, 2025''; and (ii) in subsection (e)(1) by striking ``(a)(2),'' each place such term appears and inserting ``(a)(2), (a)(3),''. (b) emergency designation.--the amount provided by this paragraph is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. title xii department of transportation office of the secretary salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``salaries and expenses'', $1,753,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including necessary expenses for operating costs and capital outlays: provided, that such amounts are in addition to any other amounts made available for this purpose: provided further, that obligations of amounts under this heading in this act shall not be subject to the limitation on obligations under the heading ``office of the secretary--working capital fund'' in division h of the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020 (public law 116-94): provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. essential air service in addition to funds provided to the ``payments to air carriers'' program in public law 116-94 to carry out the essential air service program under section 41731 through 41742 of title 49, united states code, $56,000,000, to be derived from the general fund of the treasury, and to be made available to the essential air service and rural improvement fund, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. federal aviation administration grants-in-aid for airports for an additional amount for ``grants-in-aid for airports'', $10,000,000,000, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, to remain available until expended: provided, that amounts made available under this heading in this act shall be derived from the general fund of the treasury: provided further, that funds provided under this heading in this act shall only be available to sponsors of airports defined in section 47102 of title 49, united states code: provided further, that funds provided under this heading in this act shall not otherwise be subject to the requirements of chapter 471 of such title: provided further, that notwithstanding the previous proviso, section 47112(b) of such title shall apply to funds provided for any contract awarded (after the date of enactment) for airport development and funded under this heading: provided further, that funds provided under this heading in this act may not be used for any purpose not directly related to the airport: provided further, that of the amounts appropriated under this heading in this act-- (1) not less than $500,000,000 shall be available to pay a federal share of 100 percent of the costs for which a grant is made under public law 116-94: provided, that any remaining funds after the apportionment under this paragraph (1) shall be distributed as described in paragraph (2) under this heading in this act; (2) not less than $7,400,000,000 shall be available for any purpose for which airport revenues may lawfully be used: provided, that 50 percent of such funds shall be allocated among all commercial service airports based on each sponsor's calendar year 2018 enplanements as a percentage of total 2018 enplanements for all commercial service airports: provided further, that the remaining 50 percent of such funds shall be allocated among all commercial service airports based on an equal combination of each sponsor's fiscal year 2018 debt service as a percentage of the combined debt service for all commercial service airports and each sponsor's ratio of unrestricted reserves to their respective debt service: provided further, that the federal share payable of the costs for which a grant is made under this paragraph shall be 100 percent: (3) up to $2,000,000,000 shall be available for any purpose for which airport revenues may lawfully be used, and: (a) be apportioned as set forth in section 47114(c)(1)(c)(i), 47114(c)(1)(c)(ii), or 47114(c)(1)(h) of title 49, united states code; (b) not be subject to the reduced apportionments of 49 u.s.c. 47114(f); and (c) have no maximum apportionment limit, notwithstanding 47114(c)(1)(c)(iii) of title 49, united states code: provided, that any remaining funds after the apportionment under this paragraph (3) shall be distributed as described in paragraph (2) under this heading in this act: provided further, that the federal share payable of the costs for which a grant is made under this paragraph shall be 100 percent; and (4) not less than $100,000,000 shall be for general aviation airports for any purpose for which airport revenues may lawfully be used, and, which the secretary shall apportion directly to each eligible airport, as defined in section 47102(8) of title 49, united states code, based on the categories published in the most current national plan of integrated airport systems, reflecting the percentage of the aggregate published eligible development costs for each such category, and then dividing the allocated funds evenly among the eligible airports in each category, rounding up to the nearest thousand dollars: provided, that the federal share payable of the costs for which a grant is made under this paragraph shall be 100 percent: provided further, that the administrator of the federal aviation administration may retain up to 0.1 percent of the funds provided under this heading in this act to fund the award and oversight by the administrator of grants made under this heading in this act: provided further, that obligations of funds under this heading in this act shall not be subject to any limitations on obligations provided in public law 116- 94: provided further, that all airports receiving funds under this heading in this act shall continue to employ, through december 31, 2020, at least 90 percent of the number of individuals employed (after making adjustments for retirements or voluntary employee separations) by the airport as of the date of enactment of this act: provided further, that the secretary may waive the workforce retention requirement in the previous proviso, if the secretary determines the airport is experiencing economic hardship as a direct result of the requirement, or the requirement reduces aviation safety or security: provided further, that the workforce retention requirement shall not apply to nonhub airports or nonprimary airports receiving funds under this heading in this act: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. federal motor carrier safety administration motor carrier safety operations and programs of prior year unobligated contract authority and liquidating cash provided for motor carrier safety in the transportation equity act for the 21st century (public law 105-178), safetea-lu (public law 109-59), or other appropriations or authorization acts, in addition to amounts already appropriated in fiscal year 2020 for ``motor carrier safety operations and programs'', $150,000 in additional obligation limitation is provided and repurposed for obligations incurred to support activities to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus. federal railroad administration safety and operations for an additional amount for ``safety and operations'', $250,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. northeast corridor grants to the national railroad passenger corporation (including transfer of funds) for an additional amount for ``northeast corridor grants to the national railroad passenger corporation'', $492,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including to enable the secretary of transportation to make or amend existing grants to the national railroad passenger corporation for activities associated with the northeast corridor, as authorized by section 11101(a) of the fixing america's surface transportation act (division a of public law 114-94): provided, that amounts made available under this heading in this act may be transferred to and merged with ``national network grants to the national railroad passenger corporation'' to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national network grants to the national railroad passenger corporation (including transfer of funds) for an additional amount for ``national network grants to the national railroad passenger corporation'', $526,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including to enable the [[page h1814]] secretary of transportation to make or amend existing grants to the national railroad passenger corporation for activities associated with the national network as authorized by section 11101(b) of the fixing america's surface transportation act (division a of public law 114-94): provided, that a state shall not be required to pay the national railroad passenger corporation more than 80 percent of the amount paid in fiscal year 2019 under section 209 of the passenger rail investment and improvement act of 2008 (public law 110-432) and that not less than $239,000,000 of the amounts made available under this heading in this act shall be made available for use in lieu of any increase in a state's payment: provided further, that amounts made available under this heading in this act may be transferred to and merged with ``northeast corridor grants to the national railroad passenger corporation'' to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. federal transit administration transit infrastructure grants for an additional amount for ``transit infrastructure grants'', $25,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that the secretary of transportation shall provide funds appropriated under this heading in this act as if such funds were provided under section 5307 of title 49, united states code, and section 5311 of title 49, united states code and apportion such funds in accordance with section 5336 of such title (other than subsections (h)(1) and (h)(4)), section 5311 (other than subsection (b)(3) and (c)(1)(a)), section 5337 and section 5340 of title 49, united states code, and apportion such funds in accordance with such sections except that funds apportioned under section 5337 shall be added to funds apportioned under 5307 for administration under 5307: provided further, that the secretary shall allocate the amounts provided in the preceding proviso under sections 5307, 5311, 5337, and 5340 of title 49, united states code, among such sections in the same ratio as funds were provided in the fiscal year 2020 appropriations: provided further, that funds apportioned under this heading in this act shall be apportioned not later than 7 days after the date of enactment of this act: provided further, that funds shall be apportioned using the fiscal year 2020 apportionment formulas: provided further, that not more than three-quarters of 1 percent, but not to exceed $75,000,000, of the funds for transit infrastructure grants provided under this heading in this act shall be available for administrative expenses and ongoing program management oversight as authorized under sections 5334 and 5338(f)(2) of title 49, united states code, and shall be in addition to any other appropriations for such purpose: provided further, that notwithstanding subsection (a)(1) or (b) of section 5307 of title 49, united states code, funds provided under this heading are available for the operating expenses of transit agencies related to the response to a coronavirus public health emergency as described in section 319 of the public health service act, including, beginning on january 20, 2020, reimbursement for operating costs to maintain service and lost revenue due to the coronavirus public health emergency, including the purchase of personal protective equipment, and paying the administrative leave of operations personnel due to reductions in service: provided further, that such operating expenses are not required to be included in a transportation improvement program, long-range transportation, statewide transportation plan, or a statewide transportation improvement program: provided further, that the secretary shall not waive the requirements of section 5333 of title 49, united states code, for funds appropriated under this heading in this act or for funds previously made available under section 5307 of title 49, united states code, or sections 5311, 5337, or 5340 of such title as a result of the coronavirus: provided further, that unless otherwise specified, applicable requirements under chapter 53 of title 49, united states code, shall apply to funding made available under this heading in this act, except that the federal share of the costs for which any grant is made under this heading in this act shall be, at the option of the recipient, up to 100 percent: provided further, that the amount made available under this heading in this act shall be derived from the general fund and shall not be subject to any limitation on obligations for transit programs set forth in any act: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. maritime administration operations and training for an additional amount for ``operations and training'', $3,134,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that of the amounts made available under this heading in this act, $1,000,000 shall be for the operations of the united states merchant marine academy: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. state maritime academy operations for an additional amount for ``state maritime academy operations'', $1,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that amounts made available under this heading in this act shall be for direct payments for state maritime academies: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. office of inspector general salaries and expenses for an additional amount for ``office of inspector general'', $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that the funding made available under this heading in this act shall be used for conducting audits and investigations of projects and activities carried out with funds made available in this act to the department of transportation to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. department of housing and urban development management and administration administrative support offices for an additional amount for ``administrative support offices'', $35,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, for the office of the chief financial officer, including for department-wide salaries and expenses, information technology purposes, and to support the department's workforce in a telework environment: provided, that the amounts provided under this heading in this act shall be in addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes, including amounts made available under the heading ``program offices'' in this act: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. program offices for an additional amount for ``program offices'', $15,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that of the sums appropriated under this heading in this act-- (1) $5,000,000 shall be available for the office of public and indian housing; and (2) $10,000,000 shall be available for the office of community planning and development: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. public and indian housing tenant-based rental assistance for an additional amount for ``tenant-based rental assistance'', $1,250,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including to provide additional funds for public housing agencies to maintain normal operations and take other necessary actions during the period that the program is impacted by coronavirus: provided, that of the amounts made available under this heading in this act, $850,000,000 shall be available for both administrative expenses and other expenses of public housing agencies for their section 8 programs, including mainstream vouchers: provided further, that such other expenses shall be new eligible activities to be defined by the secretary and shall include activities to support or maintain the health and safety of assisted individuals and families, and costs related to retention and support of participating owners: provided further, that amounts made available under paragraph (3) under this heading in public law 116-94 may be used for such other expenses, as described in the previous proviso, in addition to their other available uses: provided further, that of the amounts made available under this heading in this act, $400,000,000 shall be available for adjustments in the calendar year 2020 section 8 renewal funding allocations, in addition to any other appropriations available for such purpose, including mainstream vouchers, for public housing agencies that experience a significant increase in voucher per-unit costs due to extraordinary circumstances or that, despite taking reasonable cost savings measures, as determined by the secretary, would otherwise be required to terminate rental assistance for families as a result of insufficient funding: provided further, that the secretary shall allocate amounts provided in the previous proviso based on need, as determined by the secretary: provided further, that the secretary may waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or regulation that the secretary administers in connection with the use of the amounts made available under this heading and the same heading of public law 116-94 (except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the secretary that any such waivers or alternative requirements are necessary for the safe and effective administration of these funds, consistent with the purposes described under this heading in this act, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that the secretary shall notify the public through the federal register or other appropriate means of any such waiver or alternative requirement to ensure the most expeditious allocation of this funding, and in order for such waiver or alternative requirement to take effect, and that such public notice may be provided, at a minimum, on the internet at the appropriate government web site or through other electronic media, as determined by the secretary: provided further, that any [[page h1815]] such waivers or alternative requirements shall remain in effect for the time and duration specified by the secretary in such public notice and may be extended if necessary upon additional notice by the secretary: provided further, that to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, the notification required by section 223 of public law 116-6 and section 221 of public law 116-94 shall not apply to the award of amounts provided under paragraph (2) of this heading in public law 116-6 or under paragraph (7)(b) of this heading in public law 116-94 in support of the family unification program under section 8(x) of such act: provided further, that the secretary may award any remaining unobligated balances appropriated under this heading in prior acts for incremental tenant-based assistance contracts under section 811 of the cranston-gonzalez national affordable housing act (42 u.s.c. 8013), to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, without competition, including for extraordinary administrative fees: provided further, that no less than 25 percent of such amounts shall be allocated proportionally to public housing agencies who received awards in the 2017 and 2019 competitions for such purposes within 60 days of enactment of this act: provided further, that the waiver and alternative requirements authority provided under this heading in this act shall also apply to such incremental tenant-based assistance contract amounts: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. public housing operating fund for an additional amount for ``public housing operating fund'', as authorized by section 9(e) of the united states housing act of 1937 (42 u.s.c. 1437g(e)), $685,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including to provide additional funds for public housing agencies to maintain normal operations and take other necessary actions during the period that the program is impacted by coronavirus: provided, that the amount provided under this heading in this act shall be combined with the amount appropriated for the same purpose under the same heading of public law 116-94, and distributed to all public housing agencies pursuant to the operating fund formula at part 990 of title 24, code of federal regulations: provided further, that for the period from the enactment of this act through december 31, 2020, such combined total amount may be used for eligible activities under subsections (d)(1) and (e)(1) of such section 9 and for other expenses related to preventing, preparing for, and responding to coronavirus, including activities to support or maintain the health and safety of assisted individuals and families, and activities to support education and child care for impacted families: provided further, that amounts made available under the headings ``public housing operating fund'' and ``public housing capital fund'' in prior acts, except for any set-asides listed under such headings, may be used for all of the purposes described in the previous proviso: provided further, that the expanded uses and funding flexibilities described in the previous two provisos shall be available to all public housing agencies through december 31, 2020, except that the secretary may extend the period under which such flexibilities shall be available in additional 12 month increments upon a finding that individuals and families assisted by the public housing program continue to require expanded services due to coronavirus: provided further, that the secretary may waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or regulation that the secretary administers in connection with the use of such combined total amount or funds made available under the headings ``public housing operating fund'' and ``public housing capital fund'' in prior acts (except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the secretary that any such waivers or alternative requirements are necessary for the safe and effective administration of these funds to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that the secretary shall notify the public through the federal register or other appropriate means of any such waiver or alternative requirement, to ensure the most expeditious allocation of this funding, in order for such waiver or alternative requirement to take effect, and that such public notice may be provided, at a minimum, on the internet at the appropriate government web site or through other electronic media, as determined by the secretary: provided further, that any such waivers or alternative requirements shall remain in effect for the time and duration specified by the secretary in such public notice and may be extended if necessary upon additional notice by the secretary: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. native american programs for an additional amount for ``native american programs'', $300,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2024, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, for activities and assistance authorized under title i of the native american housing assistance and self-determination act of 1996 (nahasda) (25 u.s.c. 4111 et seq.), and under title i of the housing and community development act of 1974 with respect to indian tribes (42 u.s.c. 5306(a)(1)): provided, that the amounts made available under this heading in this act are as follows: (1) no less than $200,000,000 shall be available for the native american housing block grants program, as authorized under title i of nahasda: provided, that amounts made available under this paragraph shall be distributed according to the same funding formula used in fiscal year 2020: provided further, that such amounts shall be used by recipients to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including to maintain normal operations and fund eligible affordable housing activities under nahasda during the period that the program is impacted by coronavirus: provided further, that amounts provided under this heading in this act may be used to cover or reimburse allowable costs to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus that are incurred by a recipient, including for costs incurred prior to the date of enactment of this act: provided further, that the secretary may waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or regulation that the secretary administers in connection with the use of amounts made available under this paragraph or under the same paragraph in public law 116-94 (except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the secretary that any such waivers or alternative requirements are necessary to expedite or facilitate the use of such amounts to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that any such waivers shall be deemed to be effective as of the date an indian tribe or tribally designated housing entity began preparing for coronavirus and shall apply to the amounts made available under this paragraph and to the previously appropriated amounts described in the previous proviso; and (2) up to $100,000,000 shall be available for grants to indian tribes under the indian community development block grant program under title i of the housing and community development act of 1974, notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of such act, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, for emergencies that constitute imminent threats to health and safety: provided, that the secretary shall prioritize, without competition, allocations of these amounts for activities and projects designed to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that not to exceed 20 percent of any grant made with funds appropriated under this paragraph shall be expended for planning and management development and administration: provided further, that amounts provided under this heading in this act may be used to cover or reimburse allowable costs to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus incurred by a recipient, including for costs incurred prior to the date of enactment of this act: provided further, that, notwithstanding section 105(a)(8) of such act (42 u.s.c. 5305(a)(8)), there shall be no per centum limitation for the use of funds for public services activities to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that the previous proviso shall apply to all such activities for grants of funds made available under this paragraph or under paragraph (4) of this heading in public law 116-94: provided further, that the secretary may waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or regulation that the secretary administers in connection with the use of amounts made available under this paragraph or under paragraph (4) in public law 116-94 (except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the secretary that any such waivers or alternative requirements are necessary to expedite or facilitate the use of such amounts to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that any such waivers shall be deemed to be effective as of the date an indian tribe began preparing for coronavirus and shall apply to the amounts made available under this paragraph and to the previously appropriated amounts described in the previous proviso: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. community planning and development housing opportunities for persons with aids for an additional amount for carrying out the ``housing opportunities for persons with aids'' program, as authorized by the aids housing opportunity act (42 u.s.c. 12901 et seq.), $65,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, except that amounts allocated pursuant to section 854(c)(5) of such act shall remain available until september 30, 2022, to provide additional funds to maintain operations and for rental assistance, supportive services, and other necessary actions, in order to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that not less than $50,000,000 of the amount provided under this heading in this act shall be allocated pursuant to the formula in section 854 of such act using the same data elements as utilized pursuant to that same formula in fiscal year 2020: provided further, that up to $10,000,000 of the amount provided under this heading in this act shall be to provide an additional one- time, non-renewable award to grantees currently administering existing contracts for permanent supportive housing that initially were funded under section 854(c)(5) of such act from funds made available under this heading in fiscal year 2010 and prior years: provided further, that such awards shall be made proportionally to their existing grants: provided further, that such awards are not required to be spent on permanent supportive housing: provided further, that, notwithstanding section 859(b)(3)(b) of such act, housing payment assistance for rent, mortgage, or utilities payments may be provided for a period of up to 24 months: provided further, that, to protect persons who are living with hiv/aids, such amounts provided under [[page h1816]] this heading in this act may be used to self-isolate, quarantine, or to provide other coronavirus infection control services as recommended by the centers for disease control and prevention for household members not living with hiv/ aids: provided further, that such amounts may be used to provide relocation services, including to provide lodging at hotels, motels, or other locations, for persons living with hiv/aids and household members not living with hiv/aids: provided further, that, notwithstanding section 856(g) of such act (42 u.s.c. 12905(g)), a grantee may use up to 6 percent of its award under this act for administrative purposes, and a project sponsor may use up to 10 percent of its sub-award under this act for administrative purposes: provided further, that such amounts provided under this heading in this act may be used to cover or reimburse allowable costs consistent with the purposes of this heading incurred by a grantee or project sponsor regardless of the date on which such costs were incurred: provided further, that any regulatory waivers the secretary may issue may be deemed to be effective as of the date a grantee began preparing for coronavirus: provided further, that any additional activities or authorities authorized pursuant to this act may also apply at the discretion and upon notice of the secretary to all amounts made available under this same heading in public law 116-94 if such amounts are used by grantees for the purposes described under this heading: provided further, that up to 2 percent of amounts made available under this heading in this act may be used, without competition, to increase prior awards made to existing technical assistance providers to provide an immediate increase in capacity building and technical assistance available to grantees under this heading and under the same heading in prior acts: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. community development fund for an additional amount for ``community development fund'', $5,000,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2022, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that up to $2,000,000,000 of the amount made available under this heading in this act shall be distributed pursuant to section 106 of the housing and community development act of 1974 (42 u.s.c. 5306) to grantees that received allocations pursuant to that same formula in fiscal year 2020, and that such allocations shall be made within 30 days of enactment of this act: provided further, that, in addition to amounts allocated pursuant to the preceding proviso, an additional $1,000,000,000 shall be allocated directly to states and insular areas, as defined by 42 u.s.c. 5302(a), to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus within the state or insular area, including activities within entitlement and nonentitlement communities, based on public health needs, risk of transmission of coronavirus, number of coronavirus cases compared to the national average, and economic and housing market disruptions, and other factors, as determined by the secretary, using best available data and that such allocations shall be made within 45 days of enactment of this act: provided further, that remaining amounts shall be distributed directly to the state or unit of general local government, at the discretion of the secretary, according to a formula based on factors to be determined by the secretary, prioritizing risk of transmission of coronavirus, number of coronavirus cases compared to the national average, and economic and housing market disruptions resulting from coronavirus: provided further, that such allocations may be made on a rolling basis based on the best available data at the time of allocation: provided further, that amounts made available in the preceding provisos may be used to cover or reimburse allowable costs consistent with the purposes of this heading in this act incurred by a state or locality regardless of the date on which such costs were incurred: provided further, that section 116(b) of such act (42 u.s.c. 5316(b)) and any implementing regulations, which requires grantees to submit their final statements of activities no later than august 16 of a given fiscal year, shall not apply to final statements submitted in accordance with sections 104(a)(2) and (a)(3) of such act (42 u.s.c. 5304(a)(2) and (a)(3)) and comprehensive housing affordability strategies submitted in accordance with section 105 of the cranston- gonzalez national affordable housing act (42 u.s.c. 12705) for fiscal years 2019 and 2020: provided further, that such final statements and comprehensive housing affordability strategies shall instead be submitted no later than august 16, 2021: provided further, that the secretary may waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or regulation that the secretary administers in connection with the use of amounts made available under this heading in this act and under the same heading in public law 116-94 and public law 116-6 (except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the secretary that any such waivers or alternative requirements are necessary to expedite or facilitate the use of such amounts to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that up to $10,000,000 of amounts made available under this heading in this act may be used to make new awards or increase prior awards to existing technical assistance providers, without competition, to provide an immediate increase in capacity building and technical assistance to support the use of amounts made available under this heading in this act and under the same heading in prior acts to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that, notwithstanding sections 104(a)(2), (a)(3), and (c) of the housing and community development act of 1974 (42 u.s.c. 5304(a)(2), (a)(3), and (c)) and section 105 of the cranston- gonzalez national affordable housing act (42 u.s.c. 12705), a grantee may adopt and utilize expedited procedures to prepare, propose, modify, or amend its statement of activities for grants from amounts made available under this heading in this act and under the same heading in public law 116-94 and public law 116-6: provided further, that under such expedited procedures, the grantee need not hold in- person public hearings, but shall provide citizens with notice and a reasonable opportunity to comment of no less than 5 days: provided further, that, for as long as national or local health authorities recommend social distancing and limiting public gatherings for public health reasons, a grantee may create virtual public hearings to fulfill applicable public hearing requirements for all grants from funds made available under this heading in this act and under the same heading in public law 116-94 and public law 116-6: provided further, that any such virtual hearings shall provide reasonable notification and access for citizens in accordance with the grantee's certifications, timely responses from local officials to all citizen questions and issues, and public access to all questions and responses: provided further, that, notwithstanding section 105(a)(8) of the housing and community development act of 1974 (42 u.s.c. 5305(a)(8)), there shall be no per centum limitation for the use of funds for public services activities to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that the previous proviso shall apply to all such activities for grants of funds made available under this heading in this act and under the same heading in public law 116-94 and public law 116-6: provided further, that the secretary shall ensure there are adequate procedures in place to prevent any duplication of benefits as required by section 312 of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5155) and in accordance with section 1210 of the disaster recovery reform act of 2018 (division d of public law 115-254; 132 stat. 3442), which amended section 312 of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5155): provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. homeless assistance grants for an additional amount for ``homeless assistance grants'', $4,000,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2022, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, among individuals and families who are homeless or receiving homeless assistance and to support additional homeless assistance and homelessness prevention activities to mitigate the impacts created by coronavirus under the emergency solutions grants program as authorized under subtitle b of title iv of the mckinney-vento homeless assistance act (42 u.s.c. 11371 et seq.), as amended: provided, that up to $2,000,000,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading in this act shall be distributed pursuant to 24 cfr 576.3 to grantees that received allocations pursuant to that same formula in fiscal year 2020, and that such allocations shall be made within 30 days of enactment of this act: provided further, that, remaining amounts shall be allocated directly to a state or unit of general local government by a formula to be developed by the secretary and that such allocations shall be made within 90 days of enactment of this act: provided further, that such formula shall allocate such amounts for the benefit of unsheltered homeless, sheltered homeless, and those at risk of homelessness, to geographical areas with the greatest need based on factors to be determined by the secretary, such as risk of transmission of coronavirus, high numbers or rates of sheltered and unsheltered homeless, and economic and housing market conditions as determined by the secretary: provided further, that individuals and families whose income does not exceed the very low-income limit of the area, as determined by the secretary, shall be considered ``at risk of homelessness'' and shall be eligible for homelessness prevention if they meet the criteria in section 401(1)(b) and (c) of such act (42 u.s.c. 11360(1)(b) and (c)): provided further, that amounts provided under this heading in this act may be used to cover or reimburse allowable costs to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus that are incurred by a state or locality, including for costs incurred prior to the date of enactment of this act: provided further, that recipients may deviate from applicable procurement standards when procuring goods and services to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that a recipient may use up to 10 percent of its allocation for administrative purposes: provided further, that the use of amounts provided under this heading in this act shall not be subject to the consultation, citizen participation, or match requirements that otherwise apply to the emergency solutions grants program, except that a recipient must publish how it has and will utilize its allocation, at a minimum, on the internet at the appropriate government web site or through other electronic media: provided further, that the spending cap established pursuant to section 415(b) of such act (42 u.s.c. 11374) shall not apply to amounts provided under this heading in this act: provided further, that amounts provided under this heading in this act may be used to provide temporary emergency shelters (through leasing of existing property, temporary structures, or other means) to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, and that such temporary emergency shelters shall not be subject to the minimum periods of use required by section 416(c)(1) of such act (42 u.s.c. 11375(c)(1)): provided further, that federal habitability and environmental review standards and requirements [[page h1817]] shall not apply to the use of such amounts for those temporary emergency shelters that have been determined by state or local health officials to be necessary to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that amounts provided under this heading in this act may be used for training on infectious disease prevention and mitigation and to provide hazard pay, including for time worked prior to the date of enactment of this act, for staff working directly to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus among persons who are homeless or at risk of homelessness, and that such activities shall not be considered administrative costs for purposes of the 10 percent cap: provided further, that in administering the amounts made available under this heading in this act, the secretary may waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or regulation that the secretary administers in connection with the obligation by the secretary or the use by the recipient of these amounts (except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment unless otherwise provided under this paragraph), if the secretary finds that good cause exists for the waiver or alternative requirement and such waiver or alternative requirement is necessary to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that any such waivers shall be deemed to be effective as of the date a state or unit of local government began preparing for coronavirus and shall apply to the use of amounts provided under this heading in this act and amounts provided under the same heading for the emergency solutions grant program in prior acts used by recipients to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that the secretary shall notify the public through the federal register or other appropriate means of any such waiver or alternative requirement, and that such public notice may be provided, at a minimum, on the internet at the appropriate government web site or through other electronic media, as determined by the secretary: provided further, that any additional activities or authorities authorized pursuant to this act, including any waivers and alternative requirements established by the secretary pursuant to this act, may also apply at the discretion and upon notice of the secretary with respect to all amounts made available for the emergency solutions grants program under the heading ``homeless assistance grants'' in any prior act and used by recipients to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that up to 1 percent of amounts made available under this heading in this act may be used to make new awards or increase prior awards made to existing technical assistance providers with experience in providing health care services to homeless populations, without competition, to provide an immediate increase in capacity building and technical assistance available to recipients of amounts for the emergency solutions grants program under this heading in this act and under the same heading in prior acts: provided further, that none of the funds provided under this heading in this act may be used to require people experiencing homelessness to receive treatment or perform any other prerequisite activities as a condition for receiving shelter, housing, or other services: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. housing programs project-based rental assistance for an additional amount for ``project-based rental assistance'', $1,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including to provide additional funds to maintain normal operations and take other necessary actions during the period that the program is impacted by coronavirus, for assistance to owners or sponsors of properties receiving project-based assistance pursuant to section 8 of the united states housing act of 1937 (42 u.s.c. 1437f et seq.): provided, that the secretary may waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or regulation that the secretary administers in connection with the use of amounts made available under this heading in this act (except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the secretary that any such waivers or alternative requirements are necessary to expedite or facilitate the use of such amounts to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, and such waiver or alternative requirement is consistent with the purposes described under this heading in this act: provided further, that the secretary shall notify the public through the federal register or other appropriate means of any such waiver or alternative requirement in order for such waiver or alternative requirement to take effect, and that such public notice may be provided, at a minimum, on the internet at the appropriate government web site or through other electronic media, as determined by the secretary: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. housing for the elderly for an additional amount for ``housing for the elderly'', $50,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2023, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including to provide additional funds to maintain normal operations and take other necessary actions during the period that the program is impacted by coronavirus, for assistance to owners or sponsors of properties receiving project-based assistance pursuant to section 202 of the housing act of 1959 (12 u.s.c. 1701q), as amended: provided, that of the amount provided under this heading in this act, up to $10,000,000 shall be for service coordinators and the continuation of existing congregate service grants for residents of assisted housing projects: provided further, that the secretary may waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or regulation that the secretary administers in connection with the use of amounts made available under this heading in this act (except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the secretary that any such waivers or alternative requirements are necessary to expedite or facilitate the use of such amounts to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, and such waiver or alternative requirement is consistent with the purposes described under this heading in this act: provided further, that the secretary shall notify the public through the federal register or other appropriate means of any such waiver or alternative requirement in order for such waiver or alternative requirement to take effect, and that such public notice may be provided, at a minimum, on the internet at the appropriate government web site or through other electronic media, as determined by the secretary: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. housing for persons with disabilities for an additional amount for ``housing for persons with disabilities'', $15,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2023, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, including to provide additional funds to maintain normal operations and take other necessary actions during the period that the program is impacted by coronavirus, for assistance to owners or sponsors of properties receiving project-based assistance pursuant to section 811 of the cranston-gonzalez national affordable housing act (42 u.s.c. 8013), as amended: provided, that the secretary may waive, or specify alternative requirements for, any provision of any statute or regulation that the secretary administers in connection with the use of amounts made available under this heading in this act (except for requirements related to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and the environment), upon a finding by the secretary that any such waivers or alternative requirements are necessary to expedite or facilitate the use of such amounts to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, and such waiver or alternative requirement is consistent with the purposes described under this heading in this act: provided further, that the secretary shall notify the public through the federal register or other appropriate means of any such waiver or alternative requirement in order for such waiver or alternative requirement to take effect, and that such public notice may be provided, at a minimum, on the internet at the appropriate government web site or through other electronic media, as determined by the secretary: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. fair housing and equal opportunity fair housing activities for an additional amount for ``fair housing activities'', $2,500,000, to remain available until september 30, 2021, for contracts, grants, and other assistance, as authorized by title viii of the civil rights act of 1968, as amended by the fair housing amendments act of 1988, and section 561 of the housing and community development act of 1987, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, of which $1,500,000 shall be for the fair housing assistance program partnership for special enforcement grants to address fair housing issues relating to coronavirus, and $1,000,000 shall be for the fair housing initiatives program for education and outreach activities under such section 561 to educate the public about fair housing issues related to coronavirus: provided, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. office of inspector general for an additional amount for ``office of inspector general'', $5,000,000, to remain available until expended, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that the funding made available under this heading in this act shall be used for conducting audits and investigations of projects and activities carried out with funds made available in this act to the department of housing and urban development to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that such amount is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. general provisions--this title sec. 22001. of the amounts made available from the airport and airway trust fund for ``federal aviation administration-- operations'' in title xi of division b of the bipartisan budget act of 2018 (public law 115-123), up to $25,000,000 may be used to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided, that amounts repurposed in this section that were previously designated by the congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985 are designated by the congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. [[page h1818]] sec. 22002. for amounts made available by this act under the headings ``northeast corridor grants to the national railroad passenger corporation'' and ``national network grants to the national railroad passenger corporation'', the secretary of transportation may not waive the requirements under section 24312 of title 49, united states code, and section 24305(f) of title 49, united states code: provided, that for amounts made available by this act under such headings the secretary shall require the national railroad passenger corporation to comply with the railway retirement act of 1974 (45 u.s.c. 231 et seq.), the railway labor act (45 u.s.c. 151 et seq.), and the railroad unemployment insurance act (45 u.s.c. 351 et seq.): provided further, that not later than 7 days after the date of enactment of this act and each subsequent 7 days thereafter, the secretary shall notify the house and senate committees on appropriations, the committee on transportation and infrastructure of the house of representatives, and the committee on commerce, science, and transportation of the senate of any national railroad passenger corporation employee furloughs as a result of efforts to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus: provided further, that in the event of any national railroad passenger corporation employee furloughs as a result of efforts to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, the secretary shall require the national railroad passenger corporation to provide such employees the opportunity to be recalled to their previously held positions as intercity passenger rail service is restored to march 1, 2020 levels and not later than the date on which intercity passenger rail service has been fully restored to march 1, 2020 levels. sec. 22003. for the duration of fiscal year 2020, section 127(i)(1)(a) of title 23, united states code, shall read as if and apply to situations in which: the president has declared an emergency or a major disaster under the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5121 et seq.). sec. 22004. no later than september 30, 2020, the remaining unobligated balances of funds made available for the youth homelessness demonstration under the heading ``department of housing and urban development--community planning and development--homeless assistance grants'' in the consolidated appropriations act, 2018 (public law 115-141) are hereby permanently rescinded, and an amount of additional new budget authority equivalent to the amount rescinded is hereby appropriated, to remain available until september 30, 2021, in addition to other funds as may be available for such purposes, and shall be available, without additional competition, for completing the funding of awards made pursuant to the fiscal year 2018 youth homelessness demonstration. highway safety grants emergency authority sec. 22005. (a) in general.--the secretary of transportation (referred to in this section as the ``secretary'') may waive or postpone any requirement under section 402, 404, 405, or 412 of title 23, united states code, section 4001 of the fast act (public law 114-94; 129 stat. 1497), or part 1300 of title 23, code of federal regulations (or successor regulations), if the secretary determines that-- (1) the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) is having a substantial impact on-- (a) the ability of states to implement or carry out any grant, campaign, or program under those provisions; or (b) the ability of the secretary to carry out any responsibility of the secretary with respect to a grant, campaign, or program under those provisions; or (2) the requirements of those provisions are having a substantial impact on the ability of states or the secretary to address the coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19). (b) report.--the secretary shall periodically submit to the relevant committees of congress a report describing-- (1) each determination made by the secretary under subsection (a); and (2) each waiver or postponement of a requirement under that subsection. (c) emergency requirement.--the amount provided by this section is designated by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. title xiii general provisions--this act sec. 23001. each amount appropriated or made available by this act is in addition to amounts otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year involved. sec. 23002. no part of any appropriation contained in this act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein. sec. 23003. unless otherwise provided for by this act, the additional amounts appropriated by this act to appropriations accounts shall be available under the authorities and conditions applicable to such appropriations accounts for fiscal year 2020. sec. 23004. (a) subject to subsection (b), and notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made available in this act, or transferred pursuant to authorization granted in this act, may only be used to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus. (b) subsection (a) shall not apply to sections 11002, 13002, and 18114 of this act, reimbursements made pursuant to authority in this act, or to funds made available in this act for the emergency reserve fund, established pursuant to section 7058(c)(1) of division j of public law 115-31, or to funds made available in this act for the infectious diseases rapid response reserve fund, established pursuant to section 231 of division b of public law 115-245. (c) this section shall not apply to title vi of this act. sec. 23005. in this act, the term ``coronavirus'' means sars-cov-2 or another coronavirus with pandemic potential. sec. 23006. each amount designated in this act by the congress as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985 shall be available (or rescinded or transferred, if applicable) only if the president subsequently so designates all such amounts and transmits such designations to the congress. sec. 23007. any amount appropriated by this act, designated by the congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a)(i) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985 and subsequently so designated by the president, and transferred pursuant to transfer authorities provided by this act shall retain such designation. budgetary effects sec. 23008. (a) statutory paygo scorecards.--the budgetary effects of this division shall not be entered on either paygo scorecard maintained pursuant to section 4(d) of the statutory pay as-you-go act of 2010. (b) senate paygo scorecards.--the budgetary effects of this division shall not be entered on any paygo scorecard maintained for purposes of section 4106 of h. con. res. 71 (115th congress). (c) classification of budgetary effects.--notwithstanding rule 3 of the budget scorekeeping guidelines set forth in the joint explanatory statement of the committee of conference accompanying conference report 105-217 and section 250(c)(7) and (c)(8) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985, the budgetary effects of this division shall be estimated for purposes of section 251 of such act. (d) ensuring no within-session sequestration.--solely for the purpose of calculating a breach within a category for fiscal year 2020 pursuant to section 251(a)(6) or section 254(g) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985, and notwithstanding any other provision of this division, the budgetary effects from this division shall be counted as amounts designated as being for an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(a) of such act. this division may be cited as the ``emergency appropriations for coronavirus health response and agency operations''. motion to concur mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i have a motion at the desk. the speaker pro tempore. the clerk will designate the motion. the text of the motion is as follows: mr. hoyer moves that the house concur in the senate amendment to h.r. 748. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to house resolution 911, the motion is debatable for 3 hours, equally divided and controlled by the majority leader and the minority leader or their respective designees. the gentleman from maryland (mr. hoyer) and the gentleman from texas (mr. brady) each will control 90 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from maryland. general leave mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and insert extraneous material on the matter under consideration. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from maryland? there was no objection. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield myself 1 minute. mr. speaker, we meet at a challenging time in our country and in the global community. this session will be different than most, where we come together and reach out our hands. we hug one another in affection and thanks for the collegial work with us on the people's business. people who can see the chamber now will see that we are keeping distance from one another, not out of hostility, but out of love for one another, that we may keep one another healthy and safe. it will, therefore, be an unusual session, but a critical session. mr. speaker, this legislation represents a bipartisan resolve to meet the coronavirus challenge head-on. it represents a focus on families and workers, with the objective of making them safer and economically supported. it will protect workers and their families in our economy as we all do our part to flatten the curve. public health officials have made it clear that the only chance we have to prevent our healthcare system from being overwhelmed by this pandemic, as it is threatened to be, is for as many americans to stay home as possible. it is, however, necessary for us to be here to pass legislation to respond on behalf of the american people to this daunting challenge. the closure means that large parts of our economy must be temporarily shut [[page h1819]] down, causing severe disruption for businesses and workers. we saw the impact of this yesterday, when new unemployment insurance claims increased by more than 3 million people, 3 million individuals, 3 million who are in families who rely on them for support and contributions to the support of their families and their children. today, the house is taking action on phase three of our response to this unprecedented challenge. we initially responded, mr. speaker, to the immediate need of our nation with $8.3 billion in appropriations to meet the immediate health needs of our people. a little over 2 weeks ago, we acted to meet the continuing health and economic needs of our people. that was phase two. this bill, mr. speaker, which is phase three of our effort, will increase unemployment insurance benefits to those furloughed or laid off while expanding eligibility to include the self-employed and contract workers, and send checks to most americans to help them get through this difficult period. mr. speaker, i am personally disappointed that senate republicans insisted on shortchanging the 700,000 people of the district of columbia by $700 million, treating the district as a territory and not as a state for the purposes of allocating stabilization funds, as is so often the case. this jeopardizes the entire national capital region as we work together to prevent further spread of coronavirus. i will be working with delegate holmes norton and our colleagues to enact legislation correcting this injustice, and i look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to accomplish that objective. as the number of coronavirus cases in our country rises above 85,000 of our fellow citizens and continues to increase exponentially, we must take swift action to ensure that people can stay home to slow the spread of this deadly virus, and that our economy can be supported so that it can rebound when the medical experts and scientists say it is safe to do so. i thank the speaker and the committee chairs who have worked tirelessly to bring this agreement to fruition, including chairwoman nita lowey, chairman frank pallone, chairman richard neal, chairman bobby scott, chairman peter defazio, chairwoman maxine waters, as well as other chairs who have participated in forging this legislation with a bipartisan coalition in the united states senate. i thank, as well, the extraordinary staff--the extraordinary staff-- who have worked around the clock in a very short period of time, knowing full well the crisis that confronts us and that time is of the essence. thank you, staff. the staff of each of our committees, our members, and the leadership, the staffs of all three of those entities, and the members have been working around the clock, literally, mr. speaker, around the clock to determine needs and priorities and meet them. the house continues to stand ready to take additional steps when and as they are needed to win this battle for the safety and health of our people and our nation. together, democrats and republicans, together, we americans, we americans will work together to do our part in fighting against the coronavirus. mr. speaker, all of us stand in awe and deep gratitude to the millions of americans who have shown courage and commitment at this dangerous and challenging time: our doctors, our nurses, our medical personnel, our police, our firefighters, and our emergency medical response teams; those keeping our pharmacies, grocery stores, gas stations, and other critical facilities open; and so many in the private and public sectors who are daily showing up to serve the needs of their neighbors and fellow citizens. mr. speaker, they reflect the best of the ``home of the brave.'' it is in times like these that we remind the world and ourselves that we are truly one nation, under god, indivisible, working together to overcome the greatest challenge with the greatest resolve. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, we gather this morning in an america battling the coronavirus on two fronts: medically and economically. today's vote is about saving lives and livelihoods, providing the urgent relief needed to keep workers on the job, helping those who have lost theirs, and preserving main street businesses so they can ride out this crisis and rebound strongly. in 20 short days, our economy has taken a hit like we have rarely seen in america's history. thankfully, due to president trump and republicans in congress, america had the strongest economy in the world heading into this challenge. still, congress must act aggressively and act together now to stem the economic damage. senate democrats, aided by speaker pelosi, unfortunately, delayed this bill for days and used this crisis to advance a frivolous political agenda. it failed, but the senate found unanimous, if not perfect, common ground. this bill arms families with economic support, tax rebates of $1,200 per person and $500 per child, to help them ride this out. we also make it easier for americans to access their savings penalty-free and let seniors over 72 keep their savings intact. workers get unprecedented help. unemployment is being expanded by $250 billion to make sure the self-employed, the contractor, the freelancer, the furloughed, and the uber driver all have a lifeline to ride out this crisis. we are temporarily increasing the size of unemployment checks and lengthening them if more time is needed to get on your feet. we take unprecedented action to save america's local businesses and their workers. main street businesses face a crushing cash-flow problem. their customers have disappeared. they now face a cascading sequence of layoffs and closures. through temporary tax relief and lending, this bill injects cash directly into our local businesses, small and large, to stop this cash- flow crisis. we focus on preserving business to preserve jobs, to get them through these next few weeks. businesses can keep their payroll taxes in their bank accounts this year, and quickly turn their mounting losses into tax relief so they have more cash on hand to keep workers and to survive. these two actions alone keep $500 billion in our local economy. for small businesses, we offer fully guaranteed loans through your local banker, with the promise that if you keep your workers on the payroll, that portion of the loan will be forgiven. for larger and the most distressed businesses, we provide loans, too, knowing your survival is crucial to millions of american workers. these loans are not bailouts. they are given with oversight and repayment to companies that did nothing wrong but suffered collateral damage as a result of this virus. finally, the new worker retention credit, championed by ways and means republicans and leader kevin mccarthy, is to help our local businesses keep workers on the job. for businesses closed or partially closed due to a government order that have seen their incomes drop by 50 percent or more, if they pay half of their workers' salaries, we will pay the other half, up to $10,000, through this crisis. the sooner we lock down the coronavirus, the sooner we unlock this economy. to quicken that, we give our hospitals, doctors, nurses, nonprofits, and rural healthcare providers on the front lines over $140 billion in new resources. we give unprecedented flexibility to telehealth. we increase by 20 percent reimbursements for coronavirus treatments. we accelerate medicare funding, and we give patients more flexibility to use their health savings accounts. mr. speaker, while no one will agree with every part of this rescue bill, we face a challenge rarely seen in america's history. we must act now, or the toll on lives and livelihoods will be far greater. i strongly urge its passage. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from massachusetts (mr. neal), one of the senior members of the congress and the chairman of the ways and means committee. [[page h1820]] mr. neal. mr. speaker, we have been whisked here this morning in one of the grave challenges of our lifetimes. usually, in march, we talk about brackets. well, the brackets this morning are clear. those brackets are about the health of the american people and the economic security of the american family. this is not about corruption. this is not about military conflict. certainly, it is not about malfeasance. our country is weathering an unprecedented public health crisis that demands an unprecedented response from the united states government. i am really proud of the critical solutions our ways and means committee colleagues and i contributed to this legislation. this legislation could be called the families' health and economic security stabilization act because that is what we are doing this morning, providing stability. the healthcare workers on the front lines of this crisis are being pushed to their limits, both financially and physically. they need more masks, tests, ventilators, and beds to combat this virus. this legislation will help them secure these fundamental resources with $100 billion in funding for hospitals and our healthcare system. as we work to protect the health of all americans, we are also focused on the health of our economy. just yesterday morning, we learned that this week's unemployment claims skyrocketed by over 1,000 percent. as we face this record economic challenge, families need benefits that will allow them to cover essential expenses like food, rent, and medication. from the beginning of this crisis, ways and means democrats have understood that expanding unemployed benefits must be a top priority. {time} 0920 the additional $600 per week in unemployment benefits that we fought for is the least we can do to help those who, through no fault of their own, find themselves without a paycheck. similarly, the direct infusion of $1,200 in cash for american adults whom we fought for will help families through these challenging times. we also fought to include provisions to shore up the financial health of small business and other struggling employers. we were adamant about the inclusion of the employee retention credit because we know that the american economy will bounce back from this, and employers who take action to keep their employees on the payroll should be rewarded. this legislation is the product of two very different sides coming together to protect the health and financial security of all americans in the face of this crisis. i thank the many members on both sides of the aisle, and the capitol, who have worked to get us to this bill this morning. i also thank my ways and means committee staff who have been working around the clock since this crisis began and have provided the committee and the congress with unparalleled technical expertise and counsel. they deserve our appreciation. we are facing this grave enemy in covid-19. it is dark and uncertain times that we are witnessing today, but that is why we are here. we are here to fight for things that matter to america, to prioritize their health and economic well-being. we have a responsibility to take this bold action this morning so that our economy will keep going for workers and small business and to give families the peace of mind they can depend upon so that their government can help keep them whole in this crisis. that is what we did in this bill. there will be a phase four, which will be real stimulus as opposed, i think, to the stabilization effort we make today. we wish our colleagues and the american people the best at this time. take care of one another. but i fully support this legislation being passed in a timely manner. that means this morning. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 2\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from oregon (mr. walden), who is the top republican on the energy and commerce committee. mr. walden. mr. speaker, this package is not the first response to the covid-19 pandemic, nor will it be the last. the american people expect us to set partisanship aside in times of crisis and do what is best for our country and for our constituents, and that is what we are doing today. we are helping healthcare providers on the front lines back home get the personal protective equipment they need and the medicines and medical devices that will save the lives of their patients. we are helping people who have lost their jobs get a lifeline. we are helping our small businesses keep their workforce together. we are making record investments into finding treatments and a cure. we are helping our state and local governments, too. we are all in this together. with president trump's leadership, we are all in this to win as fast as medically possible. in order to prevent our health system from collapsing under the weight of this virus, we are providing unprecedented support for our nation's healthcare providers, including $100 billion for hospitals, labs, doctors, and increased reimbursement for treating covid-19 patients. we will dramatically expand production and distribution of medical supplies by providing liability protections through the prep act for respirator manufacturers, providing $16 billion for the strategic national stockpile to procure medical countermeasures such as personal protective equipment and ventilators, and providing $11 billion for the manufacturing, production, and purchase of vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics, and other items to address the nation's medical or preparedness needs. the cares act opens up the fastest computers in the world at our national laboratories for research and analysis related to the covid-19 virus. we help epa expedite the ability to get disinfectants to market more quickly to protect the public from covid-19 and prevent its further spread. in a volatile oil market, the cares act smartly delays a mandatory 2020 sale of oil from the strategic petroleum reserve through 2022. included in the package are improvements to expand access to care through telehealth, including $200 million for the fcc for telehealth services and devices and an expansion of telehealth services in the medicare program. the package also extends vital medicare, medicaid, and public health programs, including community health centers, among many others, until november 30 this year. we mobilize the nation's health workforce by providing liability protections to those who provide volunteer medical services during the public health crisis and by standing up the ready reserve. we take steps to protect our medical supply chain, something that i hope the congress will continue to work on after we pass this legislation today. today's phase three approach is the most comprehensive and robust response to covid-19 yet. together, we are going to win this war. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman from connecticut (ms. delauro), who is one of the leaders in this congress on protecting families and children. ms. delauro. mr. speaker, i rise in support of this historic bill. this is the biggest economic and health crisis the country has ever faced. nurses and doctors are in intensive care units trying to save our humanity against this awful pandemic. this is the biggest governmental response the country has ever seen to rescue people, the economy, and our healthcare system. it is necessary. the united states is now the epicenter of a global pandemic. cases of the coronavirus are rising exponentially. to slow the spread of the contagion, serious measures of social distancing are underway. schools are closing. businesses are shuttering. last week, more than 3 million filed for unemployment. so, the hour is dark. but today, congress is ready to help get families, workers, and the country to the dawn of recovery. for that, i commend speaker nancy pelosi, appropriations chair nita lowey, and all the appropriations subcommittee chairs. their leadership has been crucial in the progress that we were able to make for the people. [[page h1821]] had we passed our house bill, things would be different, but we managed to shape this package in a fundamental way. we secured a large investment in hospitals, health systems, and state and local governments; a profound increase in unemployment insurance benefits; and a significant expansion in support for small businesses. we made rent, mortgage, and utility costs eligible for sba loan forgiveness. as chair of the labor, health and human services, education, and related agencies subcommittee, i am proud of the investments we have made for working people, for public health, and for our teachers and students. for health, we secured $140 billion for the department of health and human services; $4.3 billion for the centers for disease control and prevention to respond to the pandemic; $945 million for the nih to support research; $127 billion for our medical response effort; and important increases for seniors, those living with disabilities, and those struggling with mental health. for education, we secured $30 billion for the department of education, billions for elementary and secondary education, and billions to help colleges and universities confront the immediate effects of the pandemic. while this funding is crucial, let me be clear: it is a start. for working people and families, we secured $3.5 billion for the child care and development block grant and $360 million for programs at the department of labor. i am proud of the increases that other appropriations subcommittee chairs have secured: millions to ensure the economic injury disaster loans; millions to assist firefighters and our first responders to secure personal protective equipment; $25 billion for public transit to protect passengers and operators as they access essential services; $5 billion for the community development block grant program, to help communities respond to economic and housing impacts; emergency funding for child nutrition programs; $4 billion for homeless grants; and $45 billion for fema disaster relief, providing assistance to every single state that has declared an emergency. and we have provided relief to our tribal organizations and to our territories. so, i embrace this historic bill. i know the speaker, appropriations chairwoman lowey, and the committee chairs fought to include paid sick days, paid leave for all, increased food assistance, and a strengthened and fully refundable child tax credit and a young child tax credit. soon, duty will call on us to take the next major bold steps in this crisis. i call on the house of representatives to support the relief that americans need. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 2\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from ohio (mr. chabot), who is the republican leader of the small business committee. mr. chabot. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman for yielding. mr. speaker, this is a critical time in our nation's history. people are worried about their health and that of their loved ones. they are wondering how long this new way of life will last. but people across our great nation are coming together. i have seen the response in my own district, where yesterday would have been opening day, and the cincinnati reds remain undefeated. from the bold leadership of ohio's governor mike dewine and department of health director dr. amy acton to the brave healthcare workers on the front lines of facilities like the university of cincinnati medical center and the local companies that have volunteered to produce much-needed personal protective equipment, these men and women are heroes, risking their lives and livelihoods so that their fellow citizens may continue to live as comfortably and as normally as possible during this trying time. as the ranking member of the house small business committee, i want to single out the contribution of this nation's small businesses. to those that have had to temporarily close and those who have bravely stayed open to provide life-sustaining supplies, i want you to know that there is help in this bill. we have come together in this legislation to help our entrepreneurs who so urgently need it. small businesses and their employees often rise before the sun and retire under the stars to ensure that their customers' needs are met and often exceeded. along the way, the small business administration, or sba, is charged with assisting the nation's smallest firms. when disaster strikes, the sba helps businesses get back on their feet. as we face the unprecedented challenge of covid-19 we must ensure that small businesses have the resources needed to weather that storm. they are being forced to make tough choices to protect themselves, their employees, and their customers. they are laying off staff who are like family to them, cutting hours when workers need them most and closing their doors after years or even decades of successful operation. to alleviate these enormous pressures, the cares act, this legislation, creates a new program specifically designed to respond to the current crisis. that program, the paycheck protection program, provides $350 billion for 100 percent federally guaranteed loans for up to 8 weeks of assistance. these loans can be forgiven when used for payroll, interest on mortgage, rent, and utilities. the cares act also creates a deferment payment on current 7(a) loans. the sba will pay all principal, interest, and fees for those small businesses for up to 6 months. these payment obligations will be completely forgiven and removed from a borrower's books. finally, the bill permits small business owners who have applied for an sba economic injury disaster loan to request in advance up to $10,000. i am grateful that we can help small businesses in this act. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i have thanked each and every one of the chairs. none have worked harder than mr. defazio from the state of oregon. he is one of this country's experts on transportation and the movement of goods and services so critical to our economy and so critical to the health of our people. mr. speaker, i yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from oregon (mr. defazio). mr. defazio. mr. speaker, this is an unprecedented challenge to the health and economic well-being of the united states of america, and i am proud to be a member of the house today here to address this. there are numerous provisions of this bill with which i disagree, and i know there are numerous provisions that my republican colleagues disagree with, but let us put it a little bit in perspective. after 9/11, we bailed out the airlines, and they got a bunch of cash. what did they do then? they declared bankruptcy, and they preserved their assets--except not their most valuable assets. they screwed their employees. they lost their pensions; they lost their stock options; and they lost their jobs. i remember talking to a 55-year-old flight employee who had been flying 25 years. she said: now i have to fly 10 more just to get the guaranteed pension at 35 percent of what i would have gotten. mr. speaker, that cannot happen again. then, in 2008, hank paulson came to us, and he said: just give me the key to the treasury, and i will take care of this. well, for 1 day in the house of representatives, we stood strong, and we defeated that. two days later, we came back with something a little bit better but nowhere near adequate. we need to learn from those mistakes. that was supposed to save people's homes and their jobs. millions lost their homes, their jobs, and their pensions. but wall street, hey, they prospered. never again. we started a week ago with secretary mnuchin proposing the same thing that hank paulson proposed--they all come from wall street--a couple of decades ago. the democrats fought back. we said: no, it is going to be workers and families first. this is a different kind of recovery package. it is an ultimate bipartisan product. it passed the senate unanimously, and it emphasizes payrolls--maintaining payrolls and maintaining benefits. it is going to get help to small businesses, from individual owners to larger businesses. it is going to target [[page h1822]] people with extended and enhanced unemployment benefits. some who work in the gig economy would not be eligible for anything. they are totally out. so, these are really good things in this bill. the aviation section should be a model for any industry that gets money from the funds that mnuchin distributes. there are two packages. one is a payroll passthrough to keep the people working, keep their benefits, and keep their pay. the other part is heavily conditioned loans: no stock buybacks, no dividends, no executive bonuses, and no bankruptcy for a year after you take these loans. keep the industry intact. it is vital. and $3 billion goes to the contract workers and the service workers, who are the most abused people in the industry. they are the ones whom you never see who keep the plane clean, who load the food, and who move your bags and do everything else. they push the wheelchairs. they get rotten pay. they get assistance in this bill. so, this will keep the framework of this industry alive. covid-19 is what we are battling now, but we have been battling something else in our economy for a long time: corporate greed. wall street demands to put profits over people. $2 trillion in tax cuts went to the people at the top. for too long, the working people of this country have been ignored. not this time. we need a system that always puts workers and families first, not just during a national emergency and not just when it is politically convenient. i am ready at any time to roll up my sleeves for that fight. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from illinois (mr. rodney davis), who is the republican leader of the house administration committee. mr. rodney davis of illinois. mr. speaker, as the ranking member of the house administration committee, i want all of my colleagues to make sure that before we leave this floor today, after, hopefully, passing this piece of legislation, that we thank every staff member who works for the house, who makes sure that this house is clean, and who makes sure that this house operates. they are here sitting there in the well, and they are here in our hallways. they are doing the jobs that allow us to do our job. on behalf of everyone here, i thank them for what they do every single day. it is important. the first vote that i took on this house floor--one of the first--was for superstorm sandy relief. my good friend, mr. van drew, sitting next to me here, i am sure had more of a frontline view as a state senator in new jersey at the time as to what kind of impact that disaster assistance had on the ground to those americans who were hurting. i went back and took criticism from many in the media and some in my own party, and i said one thing. i said: if there is one job that we as congress should do and do well, it is to help americans recover from a disaster that they did not ask for. we are in the midst of the worst economic disaster that we have seen in my lifetime. mr. speaker, 3\1/2\ weeks ago, we were in an economy with economic growth and historic low sustained unemployment that we all promised the american people we would deliver together. in less than 3\1/2\ weeks, this economic disaster has hit many industries. i can say, as i flew out this morning from st. louis to ronald reagan washington national airport, there were two members of congress on the plane out of the total of four passengers. if you do not think that industry is on the brink of collapse, i urge you to use it right now, and you will see. but it is our main street businesses and our main street companies that line the streets of every rural community that i represent and line the streets of this great country that are hurting the most. it is their economic disaster. they are being told that they are not able to operate. we need to do better. we need to pass this bill and give them the revenue, the opportunity, and the cash flow to get through this so we can get through this as americans. students: you get a chance to defer your loan payments. what is great is, when these businesses recover, they now have the opportunity to tax-free help you pay your student debt. this is what happens when we work together, and these are the things that will happen when we pass this bill. it is not about social media today. it is about helping the american people. let us do it. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i agree with the gentleman from illinois. this is about all of us as americans, not as republicans and democrats, helping those who are challenged, as all of our country is. our next speaker is my dear friend from new york city--one of the epicenters of this challenge--who has led the small business committee with extraordinary ability and passion and making sure that the small businessmen and -women of america are helped and addressed in this bill. mr. speaker, i yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman from new york (ms. velazquez). ms. velazquez. mr. speaker, i thank the majority leader for yielding. mr. speaker, our nation faces an unprecedented crisis. with one in three americans being told to stay home to flatten the curve, the american economy has essentially been shut off. restaurants, hotels, bars, retail stores, barbershops, dance and yoga studios, and gyms-- practically every segment of the small business sector is suffering immeasurably. whether it is brooklyn, new york, or brooklyn, wisconsin, small businesses are the heart of america's main streets. unfortunately, many entrepreneurs are now facing impossible decisions about their future. {time} 0940 this bill is about assisting these main street small businesses and their workers, not wall street banks or big corporations. we have taken a republican-written bill that was unfairly weighted toward big companies and reshaped it to prioritize small businesses, their workers, and their families. this emergency package channels relief to small enterprises now. it provides more than $377 billion in relief for struggling small firms to help them pay workers and keep their doors open. first, this bill allocates $350 billion for forgivable, low-cost loans for businesses to continue paying their employees. let me be clear: these loans are fully forgivable if firms keep their workforce on the payroll during this crisis. since the crisis began, i have been advocating for debt-free ways to get capital to small firms. this provision accomplishes that goal. the new paycheck protection program is designed to help businesses and workers weather the public health crisis, remain open, and, when we finally defeat this awful virus, resume growth quickly. beyond these fully forgivable loans, democrats fought for emergency grants. i am proud to say, working with my counterparts in the senate, we have secured $10 billion for sba to provide grants to small businesses for the first time in its history. additionally, we must assist current sba borrowers that have loan payments due soon. that is why we are providing every current 7(a) and 504 loan and microloan borrower with payment relief for 6 months. this deferment will also be open to new borrowers to help them stay afloat. this bill provides sba with $675 million in funding to not only hire new staff and equipment, but also to ensure sba services are being delivered in languages other than english. last but not least, entrepreneurial development programs will get $265 million for counseling and training related to covid-19. i should note, this bill is not perfect. it is the result of painstaking compromise. as with any compromise, no one side got everything they wanted. for now, however, small firms need to stop the bleeding, and this bill provides an economic tourniquet. mr. speaker, i am proud of the work we accomplished in this package. i thank senators cardin, shaheen, coons, and rubio and all the members of the house committee on small business that worked so hard on this bill, as well as the ranking member, steve chabot, and the amazing staff that worked long hours to get us here. mr. speaker, i ask for everyone to support this bill. [[page h1823]] mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from alabama (mr. rogers), the leading republican on the committee on homeland security. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of our efforts to defeat this deadly virus. this bill will help people who are hurting because of this outbreak. for those from rural districts, like mine, our hospitals cannot handle the onslaught of patients. hospitals in my district face a situation as dire as it has ever been in my 18 years in congress. the capacity just is not there. before the covid-19 outbreak, most hospitals in alabama's third congressional district were operating with less than a one-third profit margin. this bill helps those rural hospitals by enabling them to buy central supplies, build needed infrastructure for broadband and telehealth, and keep cash flowing so they can remain able to help patients. that is the good news. as ranking member of the committee on homeland security, i want to acknowledge the hardworking personnel of the department of homeland security. these men and women interact with the public daily, whether it is transportation security administration, cbp, ice, or others. they are putting themselves in harm's way with this deadly contagion. i say thank you for their dedication to ensuring the safety of our homeland security. this bill provides dhs with a number of its requests to combat this deadly virus, and i am thankful for that. but for some reason, we could not see fit to provide the full amount requested by customs and border protection and immigration and customs enforcement to deal with this virus. there is not any dedicated money to purchase personnel equipment for cbp, for example, or ice. these professionals work face- to-face with migrants and they deserve better. this will not be the last time congress has to act to mitigate the impact of this virus on america. i thank president trump for his leadership, and the willingness of republicans and democrats to come together to put america's needs first. there will be the need for more help; there will be the need for more legislation; but, for the time being, this piece of legislation must pass, and i urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.'' mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from virginia (mr. scott), my friend and neighbor from across the river, who is the chairman of the committee on education and labor and who has done a yeoman's service on working to create this legislation and to improve this legislation and to make it friendly for our workers and for our families. mr. scott of virginia. mr. speaker, i say to the majority leader that the hard work that we have done is, to a large extent, due to the hardworking staff who have been up late at night doing this work that usually takes months. it has just been in days that they have been able to put this bill together. mr. speaker, i rise with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support the cares act. as a result of the significant changes made over the past few days, this legislation now takes important steps to give students, workers, and families the support they need during this public health emergency. many of the provisions of the bill fall within the jurisdiction of the committee on education and labor. for example, one of our most important challenges is to help workers maintain their income because losing a paycheck exposes workers and families to so many other problems. yesterday, the new unemployment claims soared to over 3 million, and that is four times more than the previous record. the cares act responds to our challenge by dramatically increasing unemployment insurance by an additional $600 a week for up to 4 months. the emergency unemployment insurance program also extends to self- employed workers, so-called gig employees, many of whom are not currently eligible for unemployment compensation because they are often misclassified as independent contractors rather than employees. and to my colleagues who have expressed concern that these benefits are more generous than paychecks earned by many low-income workers, i would say that the problem is not with the bill; the problem is with the federal minimum wage, which has not been increased for more than a decade. the cares act also maintains access to healthcare. the bill specifically makes a $200 billion investment in hospitals, health systems, and health research. it also includes a requirement that all insurance policies cover the full costs of future vaccines within 15 days of the vaccines being officially approved. it also helps people maintain their insurance, if they are laid off. finally, the bill maintains students' access to education. the cares act now has more than $30 billion in relief for students, educators, schools, and institutions of higher learning. for institutions of higher learning, it will provide financial relief to colleges and universities and also support grants to displaced students. for k-12, it will provide help to educators to adapt to long- term closures, fund purchases of education technology for online learning, and provide equitable access to education for students with disabilities. the cares act moves us in the right direction, but it is important to recognize that the legislation is only a down payment on the relief that our communities will need in the weeks and months ahead. we must immediately start work on a fourth package that reflects the unprecedented scale of this crisis. the next package must include safety protections for frontline healthcare workers and emergency responders who are risking their lives every day. the next package must expand emergency paid sick leave and paid family and medical leave without exceptions so workers can take care of themselves and their loved ones without having to sacrifice their paychecks. the next package has to ensure that americans who are fighting the disease are not hit with costly medical bills afterwards. in the second response package, we established universal, no-cost covid-19 testing. the next package that we have should expand the coverage to covid-19 treatment as well. mr. speaker, it is critical for all of us to understand that the cares act is not a stimulus package; it is a disaster relief effort which must continue for as long as it takes to ensure that students, workers, and families can survive this crisis. mr. speaker, i call on all of my colleagues to support the legislation. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from kentucky (mr. comer). mr. comer. mr. speaker, my message to the american people affected by the crisis is simple: help is on the way. this is not a perfect bill, and i am concerned about the $2 trillion price tag. but the american people need help, and this response to the present crisis will put money into the pockets of struggling workers and families. this response provides help for small business owners who are the lifeblood of our economy, and we are responding to rising healthcare needs with more supplies and financial aid for our struggling hospitals. i will cast a ``yes'' vote for this package in support of the medical personnel on the front lines of this current crisis. that includes heroes like the more than 200 medical personnel from the fort campbell military base in my district who are in new york to provide medical support. mr. speaker, i support this bill to help repair the damage caused by the coronavirus to our workers and small businesses, but any additional relief measures must focus on assisting main street businesses and working americans. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. schiff), the distinguished chair of the intelligence committee and a member of the committee on appropriations as well. mr. schiff. ``my fellow citizens, let no one doubt that this is a difficult and dangerous effort on which we have set out. no one can foresee precisely what course it will take or what costs or casualties will be incurred. many months of sacrifice and self-discipline lie ahead--months in which both our patience and our will will be tested, months in which many threats and denunciations will keep us aware of our danger.'' [[page h1824]] mr. speaker, these were the words of john f. kennedy during the cuban missile crisis. they are equally true today. we cannot see what course this virus will take, not precisely. many months of sacrifice and self- discipline will lie ahead for the american people. we will be tested, and we will prevail. america will rise to meet this challenge or any other. our healthcare workers already are. in this bill, we give them the tools to do the job and we give families the financial support they need to get by until this time of trial and tribulation is over. let us support this bill and help put our people and our country on the road to recovery. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from arkansas (mr. hill). mr. hill of arkansas. mr. speaker, i thank the ranking member for yielding me time. mr. speaker, i rise in support of h.r. 748, the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act. this bill will provide much-needed relief and help arkansas' families, hospitals, and businesses in this unprecedented time. i have spent much of the last 2 weeks in constant communication with arkansas governor asa hutchinson and his team as well as representatives and workers from almost every industry in our state. i thank them for their compassionate and hard work. i thank them for their perseverance. mr. speaker, honorary american winston churchill said, ``you can always count on the americans to do the right thing after they have tried everything else,'' so i am thankful that we rejected irrelevant ideas and that both sides finally set aside their differences and came to agreement that will help our families in these trying times. may god bless the state of arkansas, and god bless the united states of america. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from california (mr. takano), the chairman of the committee on veterans affairs. mr. takano. mr. speaker, i thank majority leader hoyer. mr. speaker, i rise in support of the senate amendment to h.r. 748, the cares act. 571 veterans in the va's healthcare system have tested positive for coronavirus. we have already lost nine veterans to this virus. mr. speaker, 120 veterans have been admitted to va hospitals; 185 va employees, including doctors and nurses providing lifesaving healthcare to veterans with coronavirus, have also been infected. because of the lack of widespread testing due to supply chain challenges like low levels of reagents, shortages of swabs and testing kits, a dwindling supply of masks to protect healthcare workers, understaffed va hospitals without providers to administer the tests, and a 2- to 7-day lag time for veterans to receive results, we know that the magnitude of this public health emergency and the number of veterans sickened by this deadly virus are underreported. it will only become more severe in the weeks to come. providing nearly $20 billion to va to combat this virus is vital. this funding will save veterans' lives, protect va's healthcare providers and first responders, and give va the resources it needs to serve as the nation's backup healthcare system in communities where local hospitals are overwhelmed with coronavirus patients. mr. speaker, this relief package provides nearly $16 billion in funding for va to provide healthcare to veterans, including the purchase of essential medical supplies like ventilators. va will have the funds to purchase more covid-19 testing kits, n95 masks, gowns, face shields, and gloves--personal protective equipment to keep healthcare providers and staff at the va hospitals safe. healthcare providers and workers caring for veterans in their homes at va-run nursing homes, community living centers, and state-veteran homes will also receive personal protective equipment. mr. speaker, $100 million is allocated for emergency management so va first responders have the resources they need to help veterans and communities during this public health emergency. $590 million is set aside for veterans most vulnerable to covid-19: homeless veterans and elderly veterans in community living centers and assisted living facilities. over $2 billion is provided to support va's it systems and strengthen va's telework capabilities. greater telework capacity reduces the risk of coronavirus transmission in va's workforce and keeps the department running. over $600 million is set aside for va to retrofit its hospitals and clinics to increase the number of beds and treatment rooms to care for veterans with covid-19 and deploy mobile treatment units. over $2 billion is appropriated for veterans who need urgent or emergency care in the community for covid-19. finally, this funding ensures the va healthcare providers putting their lives on the line to treat veterans are paid for their overtime work hours that they work. now, this relief package also makes veteran-owned small business owners eligible for loans to pay their employees and keep their businesses afloat and prevents veterans from losing their homes due to foreclosure. it ensures veterans who receive stimulus checks remain eligible for pension and means-based va benefits. this package is far from perfect, but there is so much in this legislation that is critical to helping veterans and ordinary americans survive this pandemic. i expect that there will be more legislation to ensure that no veterans or americans are left behind. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues support this package. {time} 1000 mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from michigan (mr. mitchell). mr. mitchell. mr. speaker, our country faces a public health and economic challenge unlike any we have experienced in 100 years. we must protect the health of the american people while also ensuring our economy is able to bounce back as the coronavirus subsides. i urge at every opportunity that congress assist americans with income support while also providing a critical lifeline to businesses, especially small businesses. the cares act achieves those objectives through direct checks to american households, improved unemployment compensation, and federally backed loans to businesses. this bill is certainly not perfect. rarely do we see perfect in this chamber, and certainly not in these circumstances. however, we cannot delay; we cannot waiver. we must ensure this aid is delivered to the american people as soon as possible. the american people are looking to us to lead at this moment, and we must do so now, so i rise to support the cares act. i urge my colleagues to do the same and move this to the president's desk. mr. hoyer. i thank the gentleman for his comments. mayors deal with this problem every day on the street face-to-face. they know how critical this problem is. mr. speaker, i am pleased to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from rhode island (mr. cicilline), the former mayor of providence and the chairman of our policy committee. mr. cicilline. mr. speaker, this is a public health crisis unlike any other in modern history. since day one of this pandemic, house democrats have been focused on two things: saving lives and supporting families, workers, and small businesses. that is why we moved swiftly in recent weeks to pass two bipartisan relief packages that provided billions of dollars for medicine, protective gear, and lab tests; low interest loans for small business; emergency paid leave; and free coronavirus testing. yet we understood more needed to be done for working families. mitch mcconnell still tried to use this third package to put huge corporations first, but democrats fought to make this bill about the folks who really need help. thanks to the leadership of speaker pelosi and our extraordinary committee chairs, that is what this bill does for healthcare workers on the front lines of this fight and the working folks and small business owners struggling to get by. that is why this bill provides $130 billion for hospitals to treat patients and to protect workers, $360 billion in relief for small businesses, $250 billion [[page h1825]] in direct cash payments to workers and families, and an average of 4 months of full pay for workers who are laid off because of this crisis. let us pass this bill now. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. steil). mr. steil. mr. speaker, americans' health and american jobs are being attacked by an invisible virus, and this house is called upon to respond today. americans need our help. i have heard countless stories of people struggling. i spoke to a young woman from kenosha worried about losing her job and caring for her young children. i listened to a doctor from janesville who desperately needs protective masks. america is fighting a war on two fronts: a public health crisis and an economic crisis. while far from perfect, the cares act provides needed relief: free testing, supplies for hospitals, protection of workers' paychecks, and assistance to those who have lost their jobs. at times, this bill does leave much to be desired. there is unnecessary spending, including $25 million for a washington, d.c., theater. however, the senate did its job. president trump continues to do his job. now the house must do ours. we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from colorado (mr. neguse), my friend and the president of the freshman class. mr. neguse. mr. speaker, one of the many leaders of the talented freshman class. thank you to majority leader hoyer for his leadership. thank you to speaker pelosi for her leadership and our very distinguished committee chairs for their work on this incredible, important bill. as many have said, this bill is far from perfect, but let us be clear about one thing: the american people need relief now, not tomorrow, not next week, not next month--now. and so the question before this chamber is very simple: will we step up for the american people? will we step up for the healthcare workers sacrificing their own health to save the lives of others? for the millions of unemployed across our country in each of our states struggling to make ends meet to pay their rent, to be able to feed their families? for the small businesses in boulder and fort collins and broomfield and across our country on the brink of collapse? for the scientists at csu and at nih and everywhere in between working to develop a vaccine to the covid-19 pandemic? i pray and i hope that we will step up for them by passing this bill today. let us get it done. let us meet this moment. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from kansas (mr. marshall). mr. marshall. mr. speaker, last sunday, the senate announced a bipartisan framework to help individuals and small businesses through the chinese coronavirus crisis, then politics entered the fray. in the 5 days that have followed, coronavirus has cost hundreds of americans their lives, over 40,000 infections have occurred, and millions of jobs have been lost. but, thank goodness, cooler, more pragmatic heads have now prevailed. i want to thank our president for his leadership, for halting travel from china, and i want to thank the president for reaching out early to private enterprise to solve the testing challenges. these are the decisions that actually saved lives. and, finally, i want to thank the president for his constant message of hope and determination, for believing in us, that we will develop cures and vaccines, that we can and will rebuild this great economy. as a physician, i want to remind americans to follow the president's 15-day guidelines. let us flatten the curve. let us not let up. let us ignore petty political games and beat this virus. as one nation under god, this exceptional nation will prevail. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, at this time, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from pennsylvania (ms. wild). ms. wild. mr. speaker, as the representative of pennsylvania's seventh district, just 1\1/2\ hours from new york city, i have a unique perspective on this crisis. the two world-class hospital networks in my community, the lehigh valley health network and st. luke's university health network, are also the biggest employers in my district. they anxiously await the spread of this disease to our front lines. across my community, our nurses, lab techs, pas, physicians, custodial, and cafeteria staff have worked tirelessly to care for every patient. despite their concern for their own well-being and despite often lacking adequate gear to protect themselves, they put the most vulnerable ahead of themselves. they are the pride of my community. the actions of healthcare workers around the country say to us: we are all in this together. our response cannot be: fend for yourself. now we have to do our part and provide them with enough personal protective equipment and enough ventilators for their patients. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from arizona (mr. biggs). mr. biggs. mr. speaker, the vote we take today may be the most monumental vote during our tenure in congress, and the amount of money we are committing is, in itself, epic. i have heard folks from both sides, and particularly the other side, talk about this is all for the families and the working people, and yet i find myself saying, if that is the case, we might have produced a bill that did not include millions of dollars for nonessential, nonemergency-related funding such as the kennedy center, npr, the smithsonian, the institute of museum and library services, the national endowment of arts and humanities. could we have done this without strengthening the hands of unions in the private sector? sure. but we give $88 million to the peace corps, which fired over 7,000 volunteers just 10 days ago, hundreds of millions more to the irs, refugee assistance, election security, and the department of education. these may be worthy or not, but they certainly have no place in an economic relief package, and it is a shame that they are in here. the president is rightly concerned about whether the cure here, the economic cure, may be worse than the sickness. we incentivize small employees to keep their---- the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from nevada (mr. horsford). mr. horsford. mr. speaker, mr. majority leader, my chairman, chairman neal, today this body is here to send a united message to the american people: help is on the way. yesterday, the department of labor released devastating numbers revealing that 3.28 million people in america filed unemployed claims in the past week. my home state of nevada alone saw a 182 percent increase in claims. that is unprecedented job loss. american families need unprecedented relief to address it. an important provision in the families first coronavirus package laid the groundwork for expanding unemployment benefits. now, with the cares act, we are going above and beyond for our country's workers, providing an additional $600 per week for the next 4 months. no person in this country should worry about putting food on the table or paying their bills while trying to keep themselves, their families, or their neighbors safe. i know the pain and uncertainty that losing a job or facing a furlough causes. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from utah (mr. curtis), the former mayor of provo. mr. curtis. mr. speaker, i rise in support of the cares act, the largest economic disaster recovery package in our nation's history. given the size and the scope of this pandemic, it is a hefty price tag that must be paid. but i challenge my colleagues to join me in dealing with the consequences of spending money we do not have. it is time to get our financial house in order before it becomes our next crisis. i represent a state that has a balanced budget and a rainy day fund. we do it on a state level, and we can do it on a federal level. [[page h1826]] i have heard stories of the devastating effects of covid-19. one of the most important, unique parts of utah's culture is the pride we take in serving one another, especially in a time of crisis. this spirit, coupled with the targeted stream of resources designed to keep money in the economy and people healthy, will be the key ingredients to ensuring communities across the state can fully heal from this unprecedented crisis. we will weather this storm together. mr. hoyer. as a former uniformed police officer on the streets of one of our largest cities in america, our next speaker knows firsthand the challenges of our first responders. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from arizona (mr. o'halleran). mr. o'halleran. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of the cares act. families and businesses across america and arizona are struggling, and healthcare workers and first responders are being asked to perform their important work without proper protective gear. in my district, the navajo nation is dealing with a disproportionately high amount of covid-19 cases. there were 71 confirmed cases in the community as of last night. this bill allocates over $1 billion to the indian healthcare service and to tribal healthcare providers and over $400 million to tribal governments for equipment. i urge my fellow colleagues to vote for this legislative package that will provide relief to struggling american families and ensure the tribal communities are not overlooked. there is no excuse for our healthcare professionals to not be protected and our first responders. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from kansas (mr. estes). mr. estes. mr. speaker, in times like this, i am inspired by the strength and generosity of the people in kansas and across our nation. however, we know that the coronavirus outbreak has impacted hardworking kansans, their families and their friends and relatives across the country. wichita is their capital of the world. in our area, we have already been hit hard by the grounding due to the 737 max issues, but now small businesses are facing uncertainty, as kansans have been asked to stay at home, not knowing when they can resume operations again. today, i rise on behalf of the workers and families in kansas who need congress to get this right. every minute we spend trying to politicize this crisis wastes critical time and hurts americans. we should focus on what really matters: offering stability to families that need it and getting america back open for business again. the cares act assists small businesses and distressed industries, giving families and unemployed workers the financial means to make it to the other side of this crisis and ensures that job creators are positioned to keep paying their workers and rehire those who have been laid off when we recover. kansans and americans across the country---- the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from colorado (mr. crow), who has served his country on the front lines of battle in the defense of freedom. mr. crow. mr. speaker, our country and the american people are in crisis, and it requires our action now. to be clear, this is not a perfect bill, but it is the bill that america needs today. it will provide immediate relief: direct cash payments to millions of americans to pay rent, to buy food, and to pay their mortgages, and over $370 billion to our small businesses in immediate grants and loans. there is much more that needs to be done, but we will work together to do it and improve, moving forward. we will get through this challenging time as a country because that is what america does. we are at our best when we come together and meet our common challenges, and that is exactly what we will do. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from idaho (mr. fulcher). mr. fulcher. mr. speaker, the united states of america is at war. its invisible foe is called coronavirus. having a virus is not a new precedent for america. it is happened twice in the 20th century: the spanish flu and polio. but in an attempt to slow this outbreak, we did set a new precedent. for the first time in history, we mandated the economy shut down by law. now, we do not yet know the benefits of that, but we do know the cost. it is about $2 trillion dollars. and one must ask: what is the cost of not acting? it is agonizing to take on this debt, but here is a game-changer for me: when the government shut down the economy, it assumed the responsibility for bringing it back. this virus may threaten our health, but 98 percent or more will survive that. we will not allow the virus to take away our livelihoods. mr. speaker, i will be supporting the bill. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i misspoke and elevated mr. neguse from colorado, who is on the leadership and the freshman representative to the leadership, but now i am really recognizing the president of the freshman class, an extraordinary woman who has been in the federal government to rescue our automobile industry, and i thank her for her service. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from michigan (ms. stevens). ms. stevens. mr. speaker, i rise before you today in this chamber during this critical time in the united states of america, where our country faces a battle with a pandemic, the biggest battle we have faced as a nation together in generations. amidst uncertainty, we work to keep americans alive by stopping the spread of covid-19. in these times, heroes will be made and not selected. we are in a global pandemic. many americans may perish unexpectedly and suddenly in unfair circumstances. these are not pleasant words to hear. treatments and cures are needed. they will take time. economic security must be guaranteed. the outbreak of covid-19 has spread throughout our land. listen to the scientists and the doctors who have spent a lifetime in this space. listen to dr. fauci. this is not a moment to provide the false comforts of times past. we are so proud of americans who are sacrificing so much right now. our students, gone from their beloved classrooms and classmates. we beam for our manufacturers who have no---- the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentlewoman has expired. ms. stevens. i request 30 more seconds because i rise before you adorning these latex gloves not for personal attention, but to encourage you to take the---- mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield the gentlewoman from michigan an additional 30 seconds. ms. stevens. join me in the calls of servitude, sharing in the profession with those who have now come before you. similar times of trying medical need, wars and flus past, you will see darkness, you will be pushed, and our society needs you to stand together at this time. our country loves you. to our doctors and our nurses, i wear these latex gloves to tell every american: do not be afraid. the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentlewoman has again expired. ms. stevens. i tell my fellow americans do not be afraid. look and see the beauty and opportunity in nature and humanity all around you. the speaker pro tempore. the gentlewoman from michigan is no longer recognized. {time} 1020 mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to restore bipartisan work, and i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from south carolina (mr. wilson). mr. wilson of south carolina. mr. speaker, i rise in support of the legislation. this week, star parker provided insight in ``staying free and faithful in a pandemic'' in the daily signal: ``the coronavirus presents challenges to us as nation and as individuals. there are principles we should keep in mind. we have a constitution that assigns limited, defined powers to the federal government and leaves the rest to the states and individuals.'' [[page h1827]] trump acted with deliberation, shutting down flights from china. we know this virus is most lethal to the elderly. there are large variations among the states. the answer is we should maximize local responsibility. there are two other things to keep in mind. one is, life is unpredictable. that is why socialism and national planning are so bogus and always result in failure, and that is why freedom is so critically important. only through freedom is responsibility focused on individuals. two, faith is critical. it is faith that keeps us human, faith that binds us together, unique individuals. ``faith will play a key role in helping our nation through this crisis and emerge better for it.'' mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from queens, new york (ms. ocasio-cortez), one of the epicenters of this challenge to our country. ms. ocasio-cortez. mr. speaker, i represent one of the hardest hit communities in the hardest hit city in this country, queens, new york-- 13 dead in a night in elmhurst hospital alone. our community's reality is this country's future if we do not do anything. hospital workers do not have protective equipment. we do not have the necessary ventilators. but we have to go into this vote eyes wide open. what did the senate majority fight for? one of the largest corporate bailouts with as few strings as possible in american history. shameful. the greed of that fight is wrong for crumbs for our families. and the option that we have is to either let them suffer with nothing or to allow this greed and billions of dollars, which will be leveraged into trillions of dollars to contribute to the largest income inequality gap in our future. there should be shame about what was fought for in this bill and the choices that we have to make. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from virginia (mr. riggleman). mr. riggleman. mr. speaker, it was not so long ago that our country experienced an event that would bring americans together to fight a common enemy and help those in need. on september 11, 2001, america experienced the worst act of terrorism in its history. the resolve and patriotism i felt that day, as a warfighter, is so very similar to the resolve and patriotism i feel today. government can do some things for the american people. the cares act is not perfect, but it provides much-needed funds for medical equipment, support for small businesses, and additional tools to fight the crisis. this bill is a step forward, and when combined with the same american spirit that brought us through 9/11 and crises past, we can come out of this stronger. the true strength of our great nation is what people do for each other. rugged individualism turns into compassionate sacrifice. the charity of american spirit expands and envelops all others. we see those in need. we act. we volunteer. we lead. we step into the breach. almost nothing perfect comes out of government. service, however, demands that we put forth a perfect effort to do the best we can. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from illinois (mrs. bustos), one of the leaders of our party from the heartland of our country. mrs. bustos. mr. speaker, i rise in support of the cares act. yesterday, the united states became the country with the most known covid-19 cases in the world. we are all concerned for our families, for our friends, for our farmers, for our futures. but today, we have the opportunity to take a step forward to come together, even as we must stand apart, to help our fellow americans, to strengthen our communities, and to face this threat as one. illinois workers are afraid they will lose their jobs, if they have not already. small businesses are making hard decisions between keeping staff or closing their doors. and our farmers, who have already endured so much pain, are worried sick about what is ahead this year, not only because of this worldwide pandemic, but also because of the threats of more flooding. that is why i join my colleagues on the floor today to cast my vote for the most significant relief package in american history. this vital legislation will help struggling americans make ends meet. it will expand unemployment insurance to help those who lose their jobs through no fault of their own. it will help small businesses secure precious dollars to keep their employees and communities afloat. it will help our farmers, who have always stood with us, to provide much-needed resources to feed the world. this bill is not perfect. no bill ever is. but it is the strong medicine we need to defeat this invisible enemy. let us come together today to pass this bill and declare that no virus will ever tear apart this country. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from washington (mr. newhouse). mr. newhouse. mr. speaker, i rise to support this unprecedented economic relief package in response to these unprecedented times. it is clear this pandemic is having a profound impact on the american people. it is our job to make sure that this impact is not a lasting one. especially clear is just how devastating this crisis is hitting rural communities like those in central washington. this bill provides desperately needed relief to rural hospitals, many of which are the only healthcare provider for a great number of my constituents. it will support the agricultural industry to ensure hardworking farmers and ranchers can continue to provide food security for our nation. it will provide stability for workers and small business owners who are the backbone of our local economies. mr. speaker, this is a 9/11 moment, a time to put partisan differences aside, policy goals aside, and work together as americans for the people of our nation. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. cisneros). mr. cisneros. mr. speaker, our country is in a crisis, and the american people are looking to congress for action and leadership. that is why i stand in support of the cares act, which provides our workers, small businesses, healthcare workers, and so many more in california's 39th district the relief they need. whether it is to provide ppe and medical equipment to our healthcare workers, financial support for our workers without jobs, or resources for our small businesses, congress is taking significant steps to help our communities. at the same time, we are enforcing strict oversight to prevent secret bailouts and ensure that those on the front lines of our global epidemic come first. while the cares act throws a lifeline to our workers and our economy, we will need to do more. there is not a single community across the united states that has not been affected by the coronavirus in some way. that is why our next stimulus package must provide direct funding for our cities and towns with less than 500,000 residents. although we have had to be physically apart, our community and our country have come together with the american spirit and determination needed to help us get through this crisis. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from puerto rico (miss gonzalez-colon). miss gonzales-colon of puerto rico. mr. speaker, the cares act ensures that all citizens in puerto rico are treated equally under the federal grants and benefits incorporated in this bill, which i strongly support. puerto rico has been in lockdown since march 15, and more than 48,000 people lost their jobs already. this bill will help our small businesses, people, and the nutrition assistance program, as well as the health industry, to tackle those issues. puerto ricans are ready because we have the infrastructure of a great pharmaceutical and skilled workforce that stands ready to ramp up and deliver medications and devices when backed up by the defense production act. we need to rebuild our american workforce in a domestic territory. that is the reason i thank the president and the leadership of the senate and the house for putting together this economic health package to give our [[page h1828]] localities the resources to tackle this crisis affecting our nation so we can focus on staying safe and healthy. i urge my colleagues to vote in favor of it. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, may i inquire as to the time left for both sides. the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman from maryland has 52\1/2\ minutes. the gentleman from texas has 63 minutes. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from new mexico (mr. lujan), the former chairman of our campaign committee and an extraordinary candidate for the united states senate for new mexico. mr. lujan. mr. speaker, i rise today in strong support of the legislation before us. we are living in uncertain times. this virus has drastically reshaped each one of our communities, and there is likely more change to come. today, americans need us. they need the support and resources provided by this bipartisan legislation. they need access to protective equipment, a personal safety net, and economic assistance. workers need assurances that their economic security is paramount because it is the american worker at the cornerstone of our economy. in this bill, i fought so that trade workers and engineers employed at new mexico's national labs can continue protecting our national security mission. we cannot let them down. we must pass this bill for the teacher who is delivering meals to students to make sure they do not go hungry just because they are not in the classroom. we must pass this bill for nurses, doctors, healthcare professionals, and first responders who have not slept as they provide for the sick. we must pass this bill for rural communities that need the lifeline to ensure seniors are fed and individuals can access healthcare when the nearest doctor is hundreds of miles away. we must pass this for everyone who is fighting to keep one another safe, healthy, and afloat. we cannot let them down. the reality we wake up to each day may change, but what remains the same is that we face this crisis together. like every crisis we have faced before, we will get through this together. passage of this legislation is an important step, but i want every new mexican and every american to know that we understand this uncertain time demands an extraordinary response. together, we will not let each other down, and we will meet that challenge. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from west texas (mr. arrington). mr. arrington. mr. speaker, the greek physician hippocrates once said: for extreme diseases, extreme methods of cure are most suitable. while this medicine will have some short-term side effects, it is our best hope for curing the crisis. our nation is fighting a global pandemic and the prospects of a looming national disaster. while i have serious concerns with some bad policies, partisan provisions, and the overall price tag of this legislation, i am more concerned about inaction, delaying support for millions of hurting americans, and the threat of an even costlier recession for our country. this national emergency has wreaked havoc on our country and upended every aspect of our lives. we must move quickly to provide temporary relief for our working families, small businesses, and frontline healthcare professionals. mr. speaker, this is uncharted territory. this is an unprecedented crisis. extraordinary circumstances call for extraordinary measures. i stand united with my colleagues and my countrymen in these difficult days. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the distinguished gentleman from virginia (mr. connolly). mr. connolly. mr. speaker, america is bleeding. america is in deep suffering and even deeper anxiety, and it counts on its congress to respond with alacrity, thoughtfulness, and action. we have no time to dither. we have no time to engage in ideological or petty partisan fights. our country needs us as one. mr. speaker, 3.28 million people filed for unemployment last week. in my state, that translated into a 17-fold increase in 1 week. the number of coronavirus victims quadrupled in that time period in my state, and those figures are reflected throughout the country. now is the time to come together. now is the time to show our fellow countrymen that we can rise to this occasion and re-instill in them the hope and confidence that will come. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from ohio (mr. wenstrup). mr. wenstrup. mr. speaker, americans are suffering. they are suffering in the face of an unseen enemy, a natural disaster that we can only defeat together. i have spent hours on the phone with ohioans, national leaders, doctors, researchers, elected officials, and business and community leaders, listening to what they are doing to help us through this crisis and asking what they need. this bill is not perfect, but it does provide emergency relief legislation that helps our healthcare workers, our hospitals, and our businesses with liquidity, and it helps keep our workers on the payroll, as well as helping americans most in need. we see businesses retooling their industry. we see groups donating supplies and others seeking cures. we are learning many lessons, finding many flaws that we must fix so we have the opportunity to come back even stronger and more responsible than ever. we need to pass this bill. this time is very unprecedented. let us get it done. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman from illinois (ms. schakowsky), one of the senior members of the congress of the united states, a member of the energy and commerce committee. ms. schakowsky. mr. speaker, i am proud to be here as a member of the energy and commerce committee, and i rise, as we all know, during one of the most challenging moments in the history of our country and, i would say, the world. americans are hurting, and families are suffering. the calls that are coming to my office, and i am sure to yours, too, are just heartbreaking. but today, we will pass a bill that will provide critical relief to begin the healing in our communities. despite, i have to say, the failure of leadership from our president, congress has, in fact, stepped up. thanks to the unity of house and senate democrats, we pushed the initial republican proposal from corporate-first to families-and- workers-first. we fought for and won a $100 billion investment in hospitals and healthcare systems for our doctors and nurses on the front line fighting the coronavirus, often without the equipment that they need. i am imploring the president to fully invoke the defense production act so that our frontline workers will have the protective gear that they need and right now are not getting. the cares act will also provide double the unemployment insurance benefits that republicans initially proposed. this will help countless restaurant workers and small business employees who call my office and say: ``we need help.'' thanks to democrats, the small business owners in my district will now be able to make payroll, with their mortgages and utility costs eligible for small business administration loan forgiveness. sadly, this bill is not all that it could be. i am deeply disturbed that my republican colleagues are trying to exclude local planned parenthood clinics from this small business financing, especially since they are helping people every single day to be able to get the healthcare they need. i am also really disappointed that they took this opportunity to irrelevantly add to this the hyde amendment. i especially want to take the time to thank the people who are working today, and i am glad to be here among you doing just that. but we are seeing people who are outside here, the capitol police, the people who are helping to clean our environment, the people who are now working at jobs like the people in my grocery store, the jewel food store in my neighborhood, the people who are bagging my groceries, who are loading my shelves, who are [[page h1829]] taking my money in order to buy the food that all the people in my community need. they are risking their lives, too, and deserve the thanks. i want to thank my governor, governor j. b. pritzker, who has actually created a response fund that will put money into community organizations and not-for-profits that can help people who are not covered here, who need to be covered in the next bill. i am talking about immigrants and undocumented people. {time} 1040 mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from wyoming (ms. cheney), the chair of the republican conference. ms. cheney. mr. speaker, 67 years ago yesterday, dr. jonas salk announced that the united states had successfully tested a vaccine to prevent polio, a dreaded virus that afflicted tens of thousands of americans. mr. speaker, we have beaten terrible diseases before, and we will again. when we were attacked on 9/11, our heroes were the firefighters and police officers who ran towards the burning buildings and the citizens who stormed the cockpit of flight 93, who put their own lives at risk. mr. speaker, we have those same heroes today. today they are the thousands of nurses and doctors and countless other healthcare professionals and their staff who work in our hospitals and clinics and provide the greatest care anywhere in the world. mr. speaker, we owe them our deepest gratitude. we also owe them every tool, every piece of equipment, and every resource they need to save lives. mr. speaker, we also have a duty to our parents and our grandparents. in this greatest nation on earth, we protect the sick and the most vulnerable. we owe all we have to our mothers and our fathers, to the generations who came before, and we must do all we can now to protect them. all of us, mr. speaker, are called into the service of this blessed nation at this time of challenge, not as democrats or republicans, but as americans. this pathogen does not recognize party lines, and no partisan solution will defeat it--neither will the government acting alone. it will take all of the ingenuity and innovation of the american private sector working with our federal, state, and local governments. this is not a time for cynicism or invective or second guessing. this is a time to remember that we are citizens of the greatest nation on earth, that we have overcome every challenge we have faced, and that we will overcome this one. we are one nation, mr. speaker. we should all be rooting for our president to succeed, for new york governor cuomo to succeed, for california governor newsom to succeed, and for wyoming's governor mark gordon to succeed. indeed, we must do everything we can to help every state and every governor in our great union. the bill we are voting on today is a crucial step. on the sunday after 9/11, my family worshipped at evergreen chapel at camp david with the families of cabinet officials and servicemembers who were assigned there, many of whom would go on to serve overseas in the following years. the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentlewoman has expired. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield the gentlewoman from wyoming an additional 30 seconds. ms. cheney. mr. speaker, that morning, as our nation faced another time of testing, the chaplain urged us: work as though everything depends on you, because it does. pray as though everything depends on god, because it does. we will defeat this virus. we will restore our economy. we will heal our nation. we are americans. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield myself 10 seconds. mr. speaker, i thank the gentlewoman from wyoming for her remarks. i am sure all of us on this floor can subscribe to them and, hopefully, react accordingly. i thank the gentlewoman for her remarks. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from nevada (ms. titus), another senior member of the congress of the united states. ms. titus. mr. speaker, i thank the leader for yielding. whenever our economy is hurting, my congressional district in the heart of las vegas is always among the hardest hit. this time is no different. the people who work at restaurants in chinatown, clean hotel rooms on the strip, and entertain visitors downtown are struggling to pay rent and feed their children. i want them to know that this recovery package was put together with them in mind. the bill will provide direct payments to most americans, expand unemployment insurance, and give small businesses increased access to low-interest loans. it will add more oversight to corporate borrowing, while helping make sure that southern nevadans will have a job to return to when this is over. the bill will also send more resources to hospitals to make sure that our heroic healthcare workers on the front lines of this epidemic have the resources they need. we have all been inspired by the example they have set in this difficult time. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from montana (mr. gianforte). mr. gianforte. mr. speaker, last night, we learned a montanan died to covid-19, the first in our state. our hearts are heavy back home. mr. speaker, montanans are concerned. they are concerned about the health of their families and communities. they are concerned about the fallout from this outbreak. they are concerned they may have to shutter their businesses and lay off their workers. they are concerned they may not have a job tomorrow or see their next paycheck. we are addressing many of these concerns today in the cares act. it helps families and workers so they can pay their bills and put food on the table, provides loans and grants to small businesses so they can keep their doors open. it boosts funding to support those on the front lines, from hospitals to healthcare providers to cdc and the va clinics. mr. speaker, i encourage my colleagues to vote for the cares act and provide emergency relief to the american people facing this crisis. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from virginia (mrs. luria), a retired navy commander who has been on the front line herself and knows what the front line is all about. mrs. luria. mr. speaker, i rise in support of the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act. this is a necessary step in providing relief to families and small businesses throughout coastal virginia and across america. this bill provides critical funding in helping our communities thrive again when this crisis passes. as we prepare to provide relief for the american people amid this national emergency, i am reminded of the words that president kennedy would have spoken were it not for his untimely loss on november 22, 1963. `` . . . this a time for courage and a time for challenge. neither conformity nor complacency will do. neither the fanatics nor the faint- hearted are needed . . . so let us not be petty when our cause is so great. let us not quarrel amongst ourselves when our nation's future is at stake. let us stand together with renewed confidence in our cause-- united in our heritage of the past and our hopes for the future--and determined that this land we love shall lead all mankind into new frontiers of peace and abundance.'' mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. joyce). mr. joyce of pennsylvania. mr. speaker, as a member who has voted against a number of large spending bills in the past, i have to admit, this legislation has given me significant pause. but we as a nation face the largest threats that i have seen in my career as a doctor and, certainly, during the short time that i have spent in congress. the president has declared a national emergency. governors are instituting shelter-in-place orders nationwide, and consumers have been told not to consume because businesses have been told to shut their doors and not conduct business. if government is forcing them to shutter their doors, then our responsibility is to help them out. the american dream cannot be shut down by a [[page h1830]] virus, and that is why i will support this legislation, mr. speaker. it is time to put political gamesmanship aside and pass legislation for the health and safety of our nation. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from the virgin islands (ms. plaskett). ms. plaskett. mr. speaker, our nation faces the worst pandemic in most of our lifetimes. we are, indeed, in an unprecedented time. like the rest of the nation and countries around the world, the virgin islands' life has significantly been altered. americans need the urgent action of this body, the congress, to address this threat to the lives and livelihood of the american people. we do so with passage of this bill. it is not a perfect bill, but this short-term action will go a long way to save lives, help the economy, and pave a path to recovery. aside from support to healthcare and the economy, one of the most important measures in this bill, in the cares act, is the support and investment we make in our children. the $30 billion in educational funds, as well as the $14 billion allocated to higher education, will do that. the foresight and fortitude of the speaker and democratic leadership to ensure that small businesses, local government, and american workers and families--often forgotten--are included in this bill will go a long way. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. meuser). mr. meuser. mr. speaker, this is not a crisis caused by a specific industry or weak economy. this is a voluntary shutdown of our economy in order to save lives. as a result, our government needs to support the families and businesses that are directly feeling the pain of this national emergency. the cares act will buy the needed resources for our hospitals and healthcare providers to safely care for the sick, ensure that hardworking americans receive income and increased unemployment benefits during the crisis, extend emergency loans to small businesses which are forgivable for retaining their employees during this crisis, and establish a stabilization fund for other stressed businesses and to maintain liquidity in our economy. this bill is not perfect, but it is a necessary response to an unprecedented crisis. with these policies, coupled with the efforts of the private sector and the american people, we will defeat the virus and be ready for what will truly be a great american comeback. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman from california (ms. waters), the chair of the financial services committee, a senior member in the congress of the united states. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i rise in support of the senate amendment to h.r. 748, now referred to as the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act, or cares act. congress must take action to provide relief and assistance to the millions of people across the nation who are struggling in the midst of this national public health and economic emergency. with 3.3 million americans filing for unemployment last week, 1 million californians filing for unemployment in the last 2 weeks, and many families struggling to make ends meet, it is our duty as elected officials to step up and help them. several weeks ago, as the chair of the financial services committee, i led the democratic members on the financial services committee in devising a comprehensive plan to address the financial services aspects of the coronavirus crisis. i am pleased that today's bill includes some elements of this plan. the legislation before us takes important steps to protect and provide relief for consumers, renters, homeowners, and people experiencing homelessness. the bill will address the shortage of key medical supplies and equipment by providing a $1 billion appropriation to the defense production act fund. it will support small businesses and local, territory, and state governments and ensure that any federal aid to corporations has conditions and independent oversight. the bill provides $4 billion to help combat the outbreak of this disease among the homeless community. most importantly, building upon my proposal, most individuals and families across the country will receive a check or direct deposit for $1,200 for each adult and $500 for each child to help our families who are struggling during this unprecedented crisis. while i am pleased that the legislation includes these provisions that democrats fought for, while i support the bill's passage, i must make it clear that the legislation is far from comprehensive and that there are issues that it leaves unaddressed and areas where it falls short. h.r. 748 does not prohibit negative credit reporting during the crisis, forgive student loan debt, or suspend all consumer credit payments, among other concerns. however, despite these shortcomings, this bill is the most consequential piece of legislation that many of us will ever vote on. the american people need help, and they need it now. this bill represents a down payment on that relief. i look forward to working with the speaker, my committee colleagues, the senate, and others on the next phase of relief. while it is clear that congress must pass a fourth package to address these and other shortcomings, the passage of today's bill is critical for all families and communities. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from arkansas (mr. womack), the top republican on the budget committee. mr. womack. mr. speaker, we have a responsibility to the people we serve, and the moment is now to mitigate the damage to our people and our economy. for those who question the price tag, for those who question certain features in the bill, think of the images we have all seen that are unprecedented in our lifetimes: the senior citizen only able to see family members through a window; worse yet, americans dying alone; the frontline medical professionals fighting an invisible disease, risking their very lives to bring hope to a frightened public; the businessman fighting to stay solvent, to keep a workforce, and to live to see another day; the scientists and engineers desperately searching for an answer. who among us can question the crisis we are in and the needs of the people we serve? by midday today, mr. speaker, let us be remembered for taking the actions necessary to put aside our politics and deliver to the american people. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from virginia (ms. spanberger), who also has seen challenge up front and personal. ms. spanberger. mr. speaker, i will be voting for this bill for the children who are forgoing their school and for the millions of children for whom that means that they are losing the stability and the nutritional support that comes with it. i will be voting for this bill for my family members and my friends and constituents who have lost their jobs in the past 2 weeks because of this pandemic. i will be voting for this bill so that we may deliver support to the small business owners and restaurateurs throughout central virginia who have closed their doors in order to stop this pandemic and keep their neighbors safe. i will be voting for this bill for the healthcare workers in my district who are risking their lives to make our communities safer. i am grateful to the sanitation workers, the mail carriers, the ups workers, the fedex workers, the grocery store workers, and those who work in our nursing homes and facilities across our districts and across our country. i thank them for adding a bit of stability to our country during this extremely difficult time. mr. brady. mr. speaker, may i inquire as to the time remaining. the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman from texas has 53\1/2\ minutes remaining. the gentleman from maryland has 39 minutes remaining. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from texas (mr. flores). mr. flores. mr. speaker, a few days ago, white house and congressional republicans presented a bold, bipartisan plan of action to help hardworking americans deal with our current challenges. this plan puts much-needed resources where they are most [[page h1831]] needed: our families, our healthcare system, our small businesses, our other businesses affected by this crisis, and our state and local governments. one of the things that we found out during this crisis is that our healthcare system supply chain relies far too much on foreign sources like communist china. we can never allow this to happen again. in order to fix that problem, i am pleased the senate and house negotiators included my request to help fund $3.5 billion to utilize three existing centers in innovation for advanced development manufacturing. one of these ciadms is part of the texas a&m university system, which i represent. these public-private ciadm partnerships are uniquely positioned to accelerate research, development, and manufacture of vaccines and therapeutics to mitigate pandemics, and they do it right here in america. {time} 1100 mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. perry), my good friend. mr. perry. mr. speaker, the coronavirus emanating from china is here. we cannot stop that. we cannot go back, but i am distressed by the hobson's choice that we have. it is ravaging our communities. it is ravaging our healthcare system. it is ravaging our economy. and we should be solely focused on healing our communities and saving the small businesses, the big businesses, and the economy that make america great. so as we discuss this and also discuss a fourth--yet another-- package, no more hobson's choice, no more billion-dollar bailouts for things that are unrelated, no more policies that are long-standing for a short-standing issue that needs our critical attention. mr. speaker, whatever we do, let us do no harm. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from texas (mr. burgess), my fellow texan. mr. burgess. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman for the recognition. our country is in a war crisis unlike anything that has been seen for over 100 years, but there are heroes. we know our first responders. we know our doctors and nurses on the front lines, in our intensive care units. we know what heroes they are. but, mr. speaker, not all heroes wear capes. i have a furniture manufacturer in my district, barbara caldwell, who called me last weekend and said she wanted to transition her furniture manufacturing to manufacture personal protective equipment, and she is doing so. i had an aircraft manufacturer that said they wanted to manufacture ventilators, and they are changing their clean room and hiring the engineers so that they can do that. we do have heroes in this country. they do not always wear capes. i also want to recognize the hard work done by the staff on the committee on energy and commerce subcommittee--j.p. paluskiewicz, kristen shatynski, kristin seum, caleb graff; and then on my staff, elizabeth allen, casey patchunka, rachel huggins, and my chief of staff, james decker--who are all over in the office right now making certain that this goes smoothly. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from maryland (mr. harris). mr. harris. mr. speaker, we are here a week too late, not because we did not know what our citizens and businesses needed, but because too many in the congressional swamp felt that you never let a serious crisis go to waste: filling this important bill with pork and earmarks, like $25 million to the kennedy center, $57 million to npr, $75 million to the national endowment for the humanities instead of more masks and ventilators. but, mr. speaker, many americans do need our thanks: thank you to the frontline healthcare workers who selflessly and compassionately care for victims of the wuhan virus. thank you to president trump for his leadership and for his transparency with the american people in this time of crisis. thank you to my anesthesiologist colleagues who have stepped up to the challenge. they are trained in intensive care, and the ventilators on their anesthesia machines could prove critical if this fight escalates. finally, thank you to all those americans who followed the president's recommendation on 15 days to slow the spread of the wuhan virus. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from kentucky (mr. guthrie). mr. guthrie. mr. speaker, as all of our colleagues came in yesterday and this morning and make an effort to get back, it was important that we were all home last week. i was home last week and got to talk to a barber, sole proprietor, has his own shop and had to close down because of the order. now he is going to have an income. i talked to a businessman, who said, almost in tears: i am going to have to lay people off for the first time in 40 years of business. after this bill passes, he will not have to do that. and the businesswoman who says: i have a rent payment due at the end of the month; after this bill passes, she will be able to pay her rent. mr. speaker, i am humbled, and today, i am going to vote for the largest bill in american history. i think it should make us all a little nervous, but it is, after being home, listening to the stories of those in our communities, the right thing to do. mr. speaker, i encourage my colleagues to support our communities and support those making our country better, and i am here to say i am going to support this bill, and i encourage my colleagues to do so as well. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. lamalfa). mr. lamalfa. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman for yielding. mr. speaker, this bill is indeed historic, the largest disaster relief package in american history. i am disappointed, as many of my constituents are, that much of this bill is not directly targeted at emergency relief, but that is the cost of doing business in a divided government in such divided times. indeed, much that was on the last-minute ideological wish list has been removed and focus returned to the virus and its economic effect. a colleague said earlier, this is much like a 9/11 moment. it is up to us today. highlights include: help for our revered veterans, nearly $20 billion for their medical care, homeless vets, and modernizing va telehealth; expansion of telehealth into rural america, like my own district, to bridge that gap in rural services technology; $350 billion in guaranteed sba loans, cushioning the blow and providing much stability for small businesses so that their employees will have jobs waiting when the all clear signal finally sounds. mr. speaker, it is my hope and prayer that this act hits the targets and brings the certainty that i hope most of us in this room desire and, importantly, meets the needs of the very concerned american people. mr. speaker, i thank president trump and his team for leading our country back to stability. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new york (mr. suozzi), former county executive in long island. mr. suozzi. mr. speaker, as you know, my father was born in italy, and he would say, ``what a country.'' and my grandfather, at family weddings, would give advice to the new couples and say: ``non c'e sono rose senza spine,'' ``you cannot have a rose without the thorns.'' well, we mourn the thorns in our country right now. so many people are suffering because of their health, because of their sickness, because they are worried about their family's finances, and because of the deaths that have taken place. but, today, we have to also celebrate the roses, those essential workers who are working for the common good every single day: the grocery workers, the postal workers, the healthcare workers, the people who are out on the front lines every single day, looking out for us every single day. i want to celebrate, today, the roses of life: of democrats and republicans coming together for the common good, putting aside ideological purity and working together to try and help people who are facing these desperate times. mr. speaker, god bless this country, and god bless all of our american people. [[page h1832]] mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from indiana (mr. pence). mr. pence. mr. speaker, yesterday, i got in my car and drove to washington, d.c., from columbus, indiana, on behalf of the voters in indiana's sixth district. mr. speaker, i am here to support president trump and be a voice for hoosiers who need relief from this virus now. i have been fully engaged in making sure that this package preserves the health and livelihood of americans. we need to protect the health of americans and get them back to work. congress has come together to provide relief and support for hospitals, families, workers, and small businesses. mr. speaker, i came here to fight for hoosiers' prosperity and the american dream. we cannot afford to wait another minute for relief. let us do our job and get it done. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. swalwell). mr. swalwell of california. mr. speaker, we will get through this. that is who we are. that is what we do. throughout our country's history, with leadership and resources, the american people have shown resilience to overcome every crisis we faced. this will be no different. as we meet here in this chamber, across america, from eden hospital in castro valley, california, to hospitals in new york city, our health workers, our doctors, our nurses, our receptionists--the janitors who support them--are toiling away to heal the sick. we see them. we hear them. we need them. and this bill, more than for anyone else, is for them. this relief package also helps the next generation: student borrowers, people who are working their first jobs and paying off their student loan debt and, without a paycheck, find themselves in financial quicksand. this allows them to cancel their payments through the end of the fall and also suspends the accrual of interest. mr. speaker, we will get through this. it is just who we are, and it is what we do. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from michigan (mr. walberg). mr. walberg. mr. speaker, i rise today in strong support of the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act and our president. this pandemic has upended life for everyone. i have heard from workers living from paycheck to paycheck who face an uncertain future. i have heard from struggling farmers. i have heard from small business owners who suddenly cannot make payroll or rent. i have heard from courageous healthcare professionals and first responders who desperately need personal protective equipment to continue to care for the sick. these are incredibly trying times. while the cares act will not solve every unique challenge, help is on the way. america has faced periods of profound adversity in the past. each time, we prevailed. together, as americans, we will do so again. but may we remember that, while our nation is locked down, our creator, god, is wide open to our prayers. let us use them as we put hands and feet, together, to our prayers. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from new mexico (ms. haaland), one of the first two native american women to serve in the congress of the united states. and this bill, of course, reaches out to our tribal communities to make sure that they are whole. ms. haaland. mr. speaker, this global crisis causes us to ask: how do we value the workers who grow and harvest our food? how do we value the healthcare workers who risk their own lives for our loved ones? how do we value the people who educate and care for our children? democrats fought hard to ensure this bill includes comprehensive support for healthcare workers. it also creates a $150 billion relief fund so that state, local, and tribal governments can fight this pandemic. i know what it is like to live paycheck to paycheck. the stimulus package provides direct payments to working familles so they can pay bills. the small business rescue plan will aid small businesses and nonprofits in new mexico to maintain their existing workforce and pay rent. yet, still, congress must continue to act. even after we stop the spread of this virus, we must ensure our families have the help they need. i support the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act because we must battle this threat together. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from ohio (mr. gonzalez). mr. gonzalez of ohio. mr. speaker, covid-19 is hitting our country hard and fast, but americans across our country and in my home district in northeast ohio are rallying together to confront and overcome this latest challenge. in ohio's 16th district, we have seen restauranteurs with now-empty dining rooms making free meals for students in green local school district. we have seen businesses, like buehler's grocers, do everything they can to prevent layoffs and support employees who come to work every day to ensure their shelves are stocked for those who need it. our hospitals are bracing for impact, but we have seen our healthcare providers, like at the cleveland clinic and university hospitals, working their hardest to innovate through this crisis by developing their own tests and launching drive-through testing facilities. our great governor, mike dewine, is setting the gold standard of leadership in response to this crisis. he is taking decisive action to flatten the curve and save lives in the buckeye state. this bill provides critical resources for those who need it most: our heroic healthcare workers, our small businesses, the unemployed, and our local leaders who are fighting this virus on the front lines. mr. speaker, i vote ``yes.'' mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from staten island, new york (mr. rose), who, himself, has been on the front lines fighting for freedom and, now, fighting for our people. mr. rose of new york. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of this bill because each and every day new workers, people in my own community, are dying. i rise today in support of this bill because our front line soldiers of this war--our nurses and our doctors--need masks. i rise today because days from now, weeks from now, new yorkers will need thousands of more ventilators. i rise today because hundreds of thousands of new yorkers have been laid off. and i rise today in support of this bill because this virus does not see party affiliation. today, we rise as americans, not democrats or republicans. mr. speaker, lastly, i rise today in support of this bill because this is just the beginning. more work will need to be done. new york needs more help, but we are americans, and we can get the job done. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from florida (mr. dunn). mr. dunn. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman for yielding. mr. speaker, i rise in strong support of the cares act. covid-19, otherwise known as the coronavirus, has seriously impacted our country, both medically and economically. during this unprecedented time, it is imperative that we not only take proper precautions, but react in an effective manner. this bill is not perfect. it has a very large price tag. however, a crisis of this magnitude requires congress to act swiftly and decisively. this bill represents a bipartisan compromise that can make this happen. we have single household incomes, seniors on fixed incomes, and small business owners who need relief right now. my constituency is still rebuilding after hurricane michael, and i intend to do whatever it takes to get them the help they need right away. this is an excellent opportunity for us all to come together and support our constituents. please join me in supporting this stimulus package. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new jersey (mr. malinowski). mr. malinowski. mr. speaker, i am proud to stand here today and to say to my constituents in phillipsburg, [[page h1833]] in dover, and in clark who are out of work, to our restaurant owners in somerville and summit, to our nurses and doctors at overlook and hunterdon medical: help is on the way. this does not mean we are done. there is so much more to do for our local governments, for example, for our hospitals and healthcare system. congress must keep working. let us use technology. let us use remote voting. let us have virtual hearings to make sure this money we are approving goes out the door quickly and to the right people. and let us remember, we are not here today rescuing the economy because of a virus. we are rescuing the economy because of our failure as a nation to test for that virus. so congress will do our job. we will take care of the economy. i implore the president to work with us, republicans and democrats, to fix the supply chain for masks, for ventilators, for test kits. do not talk about reopening america until we have done what we must to reopen it safely. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from arizona (mr. schweikert). mr. schweikert. mr. speaker, think of this: does not it feel like it was just yesterday the federal reserve chairman was telling us we were in the goldilocks economy? the wage growth for the working poor was the best in modern economic times. i will argue we need to find a path back to that. that economic growth was moral. it was an amazing thing. good things were happening. and then we hit this black swan. this is ripping my heart out because there are things in this bill that just do not belong there. i consider them--well, i cannot say that word in front of a microphone. we all have these moments in our political lives where we walk up in front of this microphone and we are going to say: i am going to have to vote for something that has things in it that break my heart. but we must do the right thing. we must get back to that economic growth. we must get back to that prosperity that was enveloping this country. and, hopefully, we will look back, do a great postmortem, understand the things we did wrong, and fix them in the future. {time} 1120 mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from massachusetts (mr. lynch). mr. lynch. mr. speaker, i rise in support of this bill, and i want to associate myself with the remarks of the gentlewoman from wyoming. although, in recounting the heroes of 9/11, she forgot the united states postal service workers, and we have forgotten them in this bill. during 9/11, the united states postal service workers continued to deliver the mail despite the anthrax attacks. and they continue to deliver medical supplies and medicines to every home and business in america today, 6 days a week, yet they received no benefits in this bill. we need them also to execute a delivery-by-mail system, a vote-by- mail system, in this crisis to preserve our democracy as this crisis continues. so we need to fix that in the next bill that we consider for this type of relief. we have to remember the united states postal service workers and the great job they have done on behalf of our country. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from indiana (mr. bucshon). mr. bucshon. mr. speaker, these unprecedented times call for unity to help hoosiers and all americans who are struggling medically and/or financially through no fault of their own. this relief package puts americans first, with aid for families, workers, small businesses, and companies that employ millions of people. there is assistance for healthcare providers who are on the front lines, working tirelessly to save our friends, neighbors, and family members from covid-19, in addition to their usual duties. i am proud to see that two provisions i have helped author are included in this package. these bipartisan policies will ensure patients have timely and affordable access to covid-19 preventive care, such as vaccines and testing, and make clear that doctors who provide volunteer medical services during this public health emergency have liability protections. i have spent the past week talking to hospitals in indiana. it could not be clearer that they need our help, just as we need their help, to defeat the virus and to keep our loved ones safe. i urge my colleagues to support this package so we can provide the relief americans desperately need. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from new jersey (mr. norcross). mr. norcross. mr. speaker, i rise today in favor of this bill, but also to say thank you to my brothers and sisters who are on the front line, yes, those who work in the supermarkets, who are delivering the mail, who keep the lights on, who keep the water running. we are thanking them because they are making a sacrifice today. we have always been tough. americans are special, and we will rise to this occasion. fate calls us. we will answer. we say thank you to everyone here and to all those serving america. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from michigan (mr. upton), the former chairman of the energy and commerce committee. mr. upton. mr. speaker, let us face it: coronavirus has totally disrupted our lives across the country, in every community and certainly around the globe. to all of us, it is frightening. it is a nightmare. this bill is a partial response to end that disruption. it provides our medical workers, our hospitals, our small businesses, and virtually every family needed assistance. to you who oppose this bill, please, please stand down. we cannot wait another day to help. do not add to this disruption by, in fact, being a disrupter. be a leader. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from texas (ms. jackson lee), one of our most senior members. ms. jackson lee. mr. speaker, i join my friend from michigan. there should be no one who rises to object, in spite of the fact that we know there are challenges in this bill. but i hear these words: ``we are scared. we are stressed,'' the words of an emergency room doctor. these are the ones who are on the front lines right now, today, when we have the largest number of cases as a nation and over 1,100 dead. now we have $500 billion for industries, with oversight; $350 billion for small businesses, which includes the microbusinesses, the gig economy, and faith institutions and nonprofits. i will fight to make sure all of our nonprofits get it. we also have direct payments for individuals, as well as $100 billion for hospitals. i watched as the memorial medical center gave out over 1,100 tests, a small hospital putting themselves on the front line. here are my words, mr. speaker: no man is an island. each man's death diminishes me, for i am involved in mankind. we must get this passed for the people of the united states. mr. speaker, as a senior member of the committees on the judiciary and on homeland security, and founder and co-chair of the congressional corona virus task force, i rise in strong support of h.r. 748, the ``coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act'' or ``cares act,'' which is the third and latest bipartisan assistance and relief package passed by congress and provides more than $2 trillion to address the adverse health and economic impacts of the covid-19 pandemic. i quote dr. megan ranney, an emergency room physician: ``we are scared. we are stressed. and we are worried about what comes next and about our ability to take care of our patients and our communities. as well as our ability to take care of ourselves.'' therefore, i rise to thank all of the first responders all over the nation--medical personnel are first responders. i specifically, thank my hometown houston local leadership--mayors, the county judge, school leaders and all volunteers--thank you. covid-19 is the great equalizer--we all can become ill from it--no matter if we are rich or poor; the powerful or the powerless. we will all succeed, or we will all fail--today we are here to make sure that all of america succeeds. tens of thousands of medical personnel and professionals are on the frontlines of a battle over the survival of tens of millions of people in the united states. [[page h1834]] we as a nation must place our trust and faith in these heroes as they take to the battlefield of emergency rooms, icus and beyond to win this war against covid-19 because they are the only warriors capable of waging a successful battle against this implacable foe. the title of the greatest generation that ever was--is held by the generation that fought world war ii. they did not bestow that title upon themselves--it was future generations who looked back on what they had done and how their sacrifices saved future generations from war, famine, and untold horrors from authoritarian regimes. future generations will judge what we do in our moment of crisis to save them from the effects of this pandemic and the consequences of future pandemics that may threaten to emerge in the future. let us be judged as worthy to be on the list of great generations to have guided this nation during some of its darkest hours into the light of day--still shining as that beacon of freedom for the world. the needs of families are three-fold: health maintenance, healthcare, and financial. this is just the third measure to address the needs of the american people, but more will need to be done as this national--no global disaster unfolds. i and my fellow democrats will man the ramparts of this nation and keep a close eye on the frontlines of this battle to ensure that the people in the fight have everything they need to win this war. the economic and emotional stress that families and working people are under in this nation during this crisis is tremendous and they need the help that we democrats have fought and won for them in each of the bills passed so far and in this measure. i join my fellow democrats in supporting passage of each of the bills that provide essential tools to local, state, tribal, territorial governments and to individuals and families to help them weather this storm. i fought for cash payments for all americans up to $3000 per adult and $1500 per child and the bill provides for $1,500 per adult and $7,500 for a family of five. i sought relief for the entertainment industry including freelancers, independent contractors and those in the music, dance, and visual performing arts--the bill provides for enhanced unemployment compensation of $600 a week for any worker affected by covid-19 to be combined with other benefits to replay 100 percent of wages for the average worker. i fought for the development of a small business grant program funded through the community development block grant (cdbg) program by way of h.r. 6292, ``the covid-19 recovery small business grants act.'' this legislation is modeled after my hurricane harvey relief legislation and it should include enhanced support for restaurants and bars. add $125 million dollars more to the cdbg account--the bill provides $500 billion in grants and interest free loans. i requested much needed relief for non-profit organizations including faith-based institutions who are closed due to the coronavirus and the allows these entities to access the $350 billion in funding provided to small businesses. i fought for and will continue to fight for small businesses who purchased business interruption insurance coverage are being told by insurance companies that they will not cover the coronavirus. i wrote to the president requesting that he invoke the defense production act to fully implemented his authority to meet the need for personal protective equipment, medical supplies and technology to save lives. i sought support for the aviation industry in the form of low interest loans, and i will continue to work to include them in the next aid package with the condition that they must agree to no employee layoffs and no share buybacks. i fought for $155 billion for hospital expansions to create more bed space that will be needed for coronavirus victims and the bill provides for $150 billion for hospitals and $80 billion in low interest loans to hospitals. i also, sought a directive to be issued prior to mass testing for the reimbursement to health providers who are providing free testing, the cost of test should be fully borne by the federal government and not healthcare providers--the bill eliminates cost-sharing for covid-19 treatments and vaccines for all patients. in addition to these measures, i am working to include in the next aid package: a prohibition on foreclosures or evictions for upwards of 3 to 6 months for all housed persons living within the united states; utility restoration so that every american has access to potable water, electricity, and where available natural gas while complying with stay at home orders, quarantines, and telework requirements; and funding for alternative facilities and relocation needs for prisoners to prevent community spread within federal, state, and local prison systems. the government is an umbrella on a stormy day. the storm instead is not just hitting one community, region or state it has it is hitting the entire country with every community, neighborhood, and family with tremendous force that they need help that only the federal government can provide. in 2008, it was said that some companies were too big to fail, well today the american family is too important to the future of this nation to fail and we democrats will make sure that they have all that is required to save as many lives as possible and assure not only physical survival but your economic survival. some may wonder why the american family matters so much to our nation. according to the center on budget and policy priorities, half of federal revenue or 51 percent comes from individual income taxes. another 35 percent of revenue comes from payroll taxes, which are assessed on the wage or salary paychecks of almost all workers and are used to fund social security, medicare hospital insurance, and unemployment insurance. corporate income taxes make up about 6 percent of federal revenue, with the remaining 8 percent coming from excise taxes, estate taxes, and other revenue sources. it is imperative that we are clear eyed about what we are doing with the tax revenue of this nation--it is paid by working people. corporations, businesses and top one percent of the nation's wealthiest people received a trillion-dollar tax cut last year. nothing in the covid-19 emergency response measures has changed this fact. given the state of the demand on the federal treasury the funds provided to major corporations and businesses that so richly benefited from the tax cuts should repay any funds paid to them from the treasure. this is only fair, right and just. they may need funding a bridge to provide for stability over the course of the year, but they will emerge in an economy with pent up demand that once unleashed will create prosperity that is unheard of and that point they should begin to reply what they received from the treasury. this is not the case for working people who will emerge basically where they were and in need of consumable that were out of reach or unavailable once the crisis ends. the relief provided in this legislation is essential if we are address and overcome the unique challenges posed to america and the global community by the coronavirus outbreak. mr. speaker, as of today, there were at minimum 552,598 cases of coronavirus across the globe and 85,755 in the united states, resulting in more than 25,042 deaths worldwide and at least 1,304 in the united states. on top of that, by taking the necessary measures to slow the pandemic and ``flatten the curve'' so as not to overwhelm the nation's health care system, economic activity in the united states has experienced a severe shock to the system. yesterday, the department of labor reported that the number of first- time unemployment insurance claims exceeded 3.3 million, shattering by nearly 500 percent the previous record of 700,00 set in 1982 after the passage of reaganomics. in addition, on march 23, 2020, the dow jones industrial average (djia) dipped to 18,321.62, which is even lower than it was on election night 2016, and far below the 19,827 mark where it stood on january 20, 2017. in other words, mr. speaker, all the gains that were made to the stock market and heralded by this administration as evidence of its genius have been wiped out, depleting the retirement savings and 401ks of millions of ordinary americans. so, mr. speaker, it is essential that this congress act and act now to put in place measure that will address the public health crisis, stem the economic onslaught, and ameliorate the suffering and deprivation of individuals and communities. the coronavirus bill that senate republicans put forward this weekend was a non-starter and put corporations first, not america's workers. it gave big corporations billions in taxpayer dollars with no real requirement to protect their workers' wages and benefits instead of ceo pay, stock buybacks and layoffs. it failed to provide meaningful support for americans losing their jobs or hours. and it certainly did not satisfy the priorities that were so critical to the constituents i represent in the eighteenth congressional district of texas, which were: 1. to provide increased funding for small, urban and rural hospitals under 150 beds and for federally qualified health clinics; 2. enhanced training and resources for cbp personnel where international flights land beyond the originally designated airports; 3. funding for airports that receive international travelers to allow for quarantine facilities to be established and for medical personnel to be onsite; 4. funding for school districts to cover non-teaching personnel to make sure cafeteria [[page h1835]] workers, bus drivers and janitorial services have equal access to resources if their schools are closed; 5. financial support for state and county governments and school districts; 6. enhanced funding for protective equipment for transportation security officers; and 7. reimbursement for telemedicine. thanks to the leadership of we democrats, the republican corporations-focused proposal has been turned into a bipartisan workers-first bill and has now been passed by the senate. because of democratic contributions, the legislation before us contains bold, pro-worker provisions that are desperately needed to protect the health and well-being of the american people. for example, i fought for $155 billion in funding to help hospitals in the fight against coronavirus, and won a $100 billion investment in hospitals, health systems and health research, and $150 billion for state and local governments in this agreement, to give them the resources they desperately need during this emergency. as a democrat, i fought for and won for american workers a massive $260 billion investment in unemployment insurance benefits to match the average paycheck of laid-off or furloughed workers and secured an additional 13 weeks of federally-funded benefits to be made available immediately, defeating a last-minute attempt by republican senators to claw back the $600 in expanded unemployment insurance. for small businesses, democrats insisted on and won a $377 billion infusion of fast relief for small businesses and made rent, mortgage and utility costs eligible for sba loan forgiveness. for students, democrats fought for and secured more than $30 billion in emergency education funding and eliminated income tax on student loan repayment assistance by an employer. and to protect taxpayers and provide accountability and oversight, democrats opposed and defeated republican attempts to create a $500 billion secret corporate slush fund controlled by the treasury secretary. this coronavirus legislation builds on the swift actions previously taken by the house in response to covid-19. three weeks ago, on march 4, 2020, the house passed h.r. 6074, the ``coronavirus preparedness and response supplemental appropriations act of 2020,'' which provides $8.3 billion of entirely new funds and commits more than $3 billion to the development of treatments and a vaccine available to all, and protects against price-gouging of medicines developed with taxpayer dollars. this legislation also provided $2.2 billion in prevention, preparedness and response measures, including nearly a billion dollars to help state, local, tribal and territorial health systems and helps families by extending telemedicine services regardless of where they live and supports small businesses, with billions in low-interest sba loans to those affected. passage of the ``coronavirus preparedness and response supplemental appropriations act of 2020,'' was followed 10 days later, on march 14, 2020, by h.r. 6201, the ``families first coronavirus response act,'' which ensures free coronavirus testing for everyone who needs a test, including the uninsured and increases funding for medicaid to support local, state, tribal and territorial health systems, so that they have the resources needed to combat this public health emergency. in addition, this legislation provides two weeks of paid sick leave and up to three months of family and medical leave for eligible workers and enhances unemployment insurance and supports small businesses by fully reimbursing them for providing leave. finally, the ``families first coronavirus response act'' promotes food security for families by strengthening nutrition initiatives including snap, student meals, seniors' meals and food banks. mr. speaker, the covid-19 pandemic reminds us once again how interconnected our world is and how an action occurring in a faraway place can reverberate around the world. on december 31, 2019, the first cases of pneumonia detected in wuhan, china were first reported to the world health organization. one week later, on january 7, 2020, chinese authorities confirm that they have identified the virus as a novel coronavirus, initially named 2019-ncov by the who. four days later, on january 11, 2020, the wuhan municipal health commission announces the first death caused by the coronavirus, a 61- year-old man exposed to the virus at the seafood market who suffered respiratory failure caused by severe pneumonia. on january 13, 2020, thai authorities report a case of infection caused by the coronavirus involving a chinese national who had arrived from wuhan. three days later, january 16, 2020, japanese authorities confirm that a japanese man who traveled to wuhan is infected with the virus and on january 20, 2020, china reports 139 new cases of the sickness, including a third death. on january 20, 2020, dr. anthony fauci, director of the national institutes of allergy and infectious diseases, states that the national institutes of health is ``in the process of taking the first steps towards the development of a vaccine'' against the coronavirus. the next day, on january 21, 2020, officials in washington state confirm the first case on united states soil. from that first outbreak of coronavirus four months ago, the coronavirus has made its way across the oceans and across the borders of nation-states to the point where today it is present in more than 145 countries and all 50 states, including 1,456 cases and 17 deaths in my home state of texas. as the poet john donne wrote in ``for whom the bells toll'': no man is an island, entire of itself; every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main; if a clod be washed away by the sea, europe is the less, as well as if a promontory were, as well as if a manor of thy friend's or of thine own were; any man's death diminishes me, because i am involved in mankind, and therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it tolls for thee. so, mr. speaker, we must act. no single one of us can do everything, but everyone can do something. that is why i thank the unsung heroes, the grocery staff, delivery persons, all essential workers; thank you. here is how i proceeded to join with our community to sound the alarm--so help could come earlier. but we will prevail, with hard work and the american spirit. on february 10, 2020, i held the first press conference on the issue of the novel coronavirus at houston intercontinental airport where i was joined by public health officials, local unions, and advocates to raise awareness regarding the virus and the implications it might have for travel to the united states from china and to combat early signs of discrimination targeting asian businesses in the united states. on february 24, 2020, i held a second press conference on the international health regulations emergency committee of the world health organization's declaration of a ``public health emergency from the outbreak of the coronavirus'' where i also released an action plan calling for: 1. enhanced production of n-95 masks; 2. informing state health agencies and all federally qualified health clinics to test all patients presenting with flu like symptoms for the coronavirus; 3. increasing the supply of flu vaccine and use public service announcements to promote getting a flu shot to reduce the number of persons with flu like symptoms; 4. the federal coronavirus task force to name a single coronavirus authoritative source for all federal information on the virus and establish clear communication links to k-12 and post-secondary schools, the media, and the public; 5. require that the nation's airports, trains, and mass transit systems, both small and large, have in place response teams as necessary to deal with and treat the traveling public; and 6. ensure the federal advisory task force makes public reports on the status of the spread of the coronavirus, including by the development of a computer app that provides up to date travel advisories regarding certain countries and basic information on the virus on february 26, 2020, i wrote the chair and ranking member of the committee on homeland security, seeking a briefing from acting secretary of homeland security chad wolf to gain insight into the preparedness of dhs to address a possible pandemic. in early march 2020, i founded the bipartisan congressional coronavirus task force with congressman brian fitzpatrick of pennsylvania and congressman raul ruiz of california and invited all members to join; at last count over 25 members have signed on. i have advocated to the president and congressional leadership on the need for robust support and assistance that puts workers and their families first. and just yesterday, i announced the opening of a wing at united memorial medical center in houston that will house 46 new beds to treat coronavirus victims. mr. speaker, let me list briefly several of the many of the other salutary provisions of the legislation now before us: 1. $150 billion for a state and local coronavirus relief fund, of which texas is slated to receive $11.25 million; 2. 4 months of more unemployment insurance instead of 3; 3. $6.3 billion for the strategic national stockpile for critical medical supplies, personal protective equipment, and life-saving medicine; 4. $10 billion for sba emergency grants of up to $10,000 to provide immediate relief for [[page h1836]] operating costs once a small business or non-profit has applied for an economic injury disaster loan; 5. $17 billion for sba to cover 6 months of payments for small businesses with existing sba loans; 6. $30 billion in emergency education funding and $25 billion in emergency transit funding; 7. $30 billion for the disaster relief fund to provide financial assistance to state and local governments, as well as private nonprofits providing critical and essential services; 8. $30.75 billion for grants to provide emergency support to local school systems and higher education institutions to continue to provide educational services to their students and support the on-going functionality of school districts and institutions; 9. prohibition banning stock buybacks for the term of the government assistance plus one year on any company receiving a government loan from the bill; 10. robust worker protections are attached to all federal loans for businesses; 11. real-time public reporting required of treasury transactions under the act, including terms of loans, investments or other assistance to corporations; 12. retention tax credit for employers to encourage businesses to keep workers on payroll during the crisis; 13. income tax exclusion for individuals who are receiving student loan repayment assistance from their employer; and 14. eliminated ``secret bailout'' provision that would have allowed bailouts to corporations to be concealed for 6 months. mr. speaker, in 1862 annual message to congress, president abraham lincoln wrote: the dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. the occasion is piled high with difficulty and we must rise with the occasion. as our case is new, we must think anew and act anew. we must disenthrall ourselves, and then we shall save our country. mr. speaker, the occasion demands that we rise, and i urge all members to join me in voting to pass the senate amendment to h.r. 748, the ``coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act'' or `cares act.' house of representatives, washington, dc. dear house and senate appropriators: thank you for all your strategic and important work on the coronavirus pandemic for which this nation has never faced in its modern history. as we are aware, the coronavirus is in all 50 states and any financial response must be significant and long lasting. as a result, i am recommending the following: 1. cash payment for all americans up to $3000 per adult and $1500 per child. the criteria should be based on national income levels already designated or for individuals and families making under $85,000. 2. relief for the entertainment industry including freelancers, independent contractors and those in the music, dance, and visual performing arts. this particularly impacts those in the gospel music industry due to concert cancellations and church closures. all these individuals are most vulnerable as a result of cancellations and closures. there should be a special account under the extended unemployment insurance which will allocate an additional $2,000 to the cash payment for these individuals whose income is generated sporadically from project to project. 3. development of a small business grant program funded through the community development block grant (cdbg) program by way of h.r. 6292, ``the covid-19 recovery small business grants act.'' this legislation is modeled after my hurricane harvey relief legislation and it should include enhanced support for restaurants and bars. add $125 million dollars more to the cdbg account. 4. relief for non-profit organizations including faith- based institutions who are closed due to the coronavirus. they should be funded through the cdbg program. 5. small businesses who purchased business interruption insurance coverage are being told by insurance companies that they will not cover the coronavirus. i am proposing a legislative fix to include coverage for the coronavirus under the business interruption insurance coverage. 6. the president has now invoked the defense production act and it should be fully implemented after members of congress insisted that production needs to be increased for personal protection equipment and the coronavirus tests. increased funding for health and human services for these tests. 7. any support for the aviation industry should be with low interest loans. the airlines must agree to no employee layoffs and no share buybacks. there should be increased funding to help the nation's airports and the small business concessionaires in the airports that have unique needs as opposed other small businesses. increase transportation funding that is going to be used for the airline industry. 8. there must be increased funding to protect airport personnel, including transportation security officers, through the purchase of gloves, masks, and other protective equipment that they have not received. this is extremely critical as they are nearing complete depletion. also, there must be additional funding for personal protection equipment for customs and border protection agents. 9. requesting $155 billion for hospital expansions to create more bed space that will be needed for coronavirus victims. in addition, we should use the united states military to help supplement hospital capacity in case of shortages. specifically increase hhs funding for these funding items. 10. hospitals are indicating they will not have enough bed capacity to take in the expected large numbers of coronavirus victims. funding needs to be assured for increased hospital capacity. additionally, increased funding to hospitals and healthcare providers for personal protective equipment for their personnel. the president quickly use the defense production act. specifically increase hhs funding for these funding items. 11. directives need to be in place for the reimbursement to health providers who are providing free testing. before mass testing begins, healthcare providers must understand how to utilize the reimbursement process. physician owned hospitals should also be covered for reimbursement for coronavirus testing. 12. there should be no foreclosures or evictions at this time; upwards of 3 to 6 months. the president has indicated that should be applied to hud-properties, but it should also apply to all potential evictions and foreclosures. 13. funding for alternative facilities and relocation needs for prisoners to prevent community spread within federal, state, and local prison systems. thank you for your consideration of this request. very truly yours, sheila jackson lee, member of congress, chair, congressional coronavirus taskforce, senior member of the homeland security committee. proposals for coronavirus relief package to: speaker nancy pelosi, wendell primus from: congresswoman sheila jackson lee, senior member of the committee on the judiciary and homeland security committee and member of the budget committee date: march 11, 2020 below is my proposal for the coronavirus relief package: 1. enhanced funding for small, urban and rural hospitals under 150 beds. added resources for their standing emergency rooms including training as necessary for patients without mobility to be tested at the hospital. 2. increased funding for federally qualified health clinics. resources to provide separate facilities which may include blocking off certain areas of the facility to provide for walk-in patients with coronavirus symptoms. 3. enhanced training and resources for cbp personnel where international flights land beyond the originally designated airports. more assessment is needed to prevent persons with coronavirus symptoms from leaving the airport into the general population, before medical personnel can assess them. 4. funding for airports that receive international travelers to allow for quarantine facilities to be established and for medical personnel to be onsite. 5. funding for school districts to cover non-teaching personnel to make sure cafeteria workers, bus drivers and janitorial services have equal access to resources if their schools are closed and financial support for those school districts that have to close. 6. financial support for state and county governments as needed. 7. enhanced funding for protective equipment for transportation security officers. 8. telemedicine visits should be covered with reimbursement. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from north carolina (mr. hudson). mr. hudson. mr. speaker, these are challenging times for our country, yet throughout our history, america has risen to every challenge. today is no different. i thank our president, donald trump, for his strong leadership during this crisis. i do not like everything in this bill. while we kept out dangerous provisions like union bailouts, the green new deal, and dangerous election schemes, it still has items i do not agree with. and i worry about the price tag. however, families, hospitals, and small businesses need immediate relief. i am talking about a small business in concord where the owner is doing his best but still had to furlough many of his 30 employees. he told me he can put most of his employees back on the payroll using the sba 7(a) loan program in this bill. it is workers and small businesses like this one that are counting on this legislation. it is not perfect, but i urge my colleagues to support this legislation. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from ohio (mrs. beatty). [[page h1837]] mrs. beatty. mr. speaker, the world is watching us. today's $2 trillion aid is relief and economic security for all americans. we worked hard to provide healthcare disaster needs and to ensure americans, workers, and families come first: $350 billion in forgivable loans to small businesses, independent contractors, like barbershops and beauty salons, and more; first-time funding for not-for-profits and churches, which we must include minority-led and minority-serving not- for-profits; and $1,200 in direct payments to individuals and couples, $500 for children. the nation is watching us. vote for this bill. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from north carolina (mr. murphy). mr. murphy of north carolina. mr. speaker, as a member of congress, i have spoken with constituents, business owners, and community leaders over the last few weeks who are apprehensive about their health and financial security. as a practicing physician, i have spoken with numerous infectious disease physicians, scientists, and epidemiologists about the present covid-19 threat. while there are certain provisions in this bill that are not necessary, i would rather not dwell on its imperfections, and i will support it. instead, i would like to thank house and senate members, as well as secretary mnuchin and president trump, for negotiating a bipartisan deal in a timely manner to provide relief to the american people. the cares act provides desperately needed funding for those who need it in this unprecedented time in this nation's history. families, small businesses, churches, and community institutions receive the funding that they need to stay viable while we continue to fight the outbreak of covid-19. i urge employers to keep their employees employed and access the benefits that this bill provides to keep them financially afloat. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from california (mr. sherman). mr. sherman. mr. speaker, this virus is a machine gun machine-gunning america. this bill provides $2 trillion to bandage some of the wounds. we must stop the machine gun. less than 1 percent of this bill goes for medical research. our economic system provides significant incentives to the private sector to research patented drugs, but we should do more. the next bill should provide $5 billion to the nih to evaluate every reasonable research alternative, particularly those compounds that the private sector will not investigate. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from tennessee (mr. kustoff). mr. kustoff of tennessee. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of the cares act. we all know that the covid-19 pandemic has greatly affected the health and livelihoods of people around the globe. mr. speaker, this bill is not perfect, but it is a solid step forward to providing the relief needed to revive our economy. there is no doubt that as a nation we have endured tough times in our history, but we have always come back stronger and more resilient. i am proud today to be here representing west tennessee during this trying time. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from texas (ms. garcia). ms. garcia of texas. mr. speaker, we have never faced a public health threat of this magnitude. hardworking people have lost their jobs and are on the edge of making rent or putting food on the table. that is why our rescue efforts have been focused on people. this bill offers additional unemployment benefits, injects billions into our healthcare system, provides billions to small businesses to keep their workers on the payroll, and gives every eligible adult a $1,200 check and $500 for every eligible child. however, this bill is not perfect. it leaves out immigrants who contribute to our economy, pay taxes, and are also on the front lines of this pandemic. this virus does not discriminate based on immigration status or race, and our response should not either. however, despite this shortcoming, i do plan to vote for this bill, and i urge all of my colleagues to do the same. hardworking families are at risk. they need help now. many lives are at stake. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from tennessee (mr. fleischmann), the ranking republican of the appropriations committee's homeland security subcommittee. mr. fleischmann. mr. speaker, i rise in support of this bill. to my colleagues in this great house, the people's house, we have been here in times of triumph and in times of tragedy. this is the latter. it is a time for civility; it is a time for unity; and it is a time for us to serve the american people and pass this bill. let our resolve be to defeat this virus. no malady, no virus, no adversity will ever erode the great american republic. god bless us all. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, our next speaker is another former member of the armed forces who has seen combat face-to-face and knows what crisis we face today. i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from new jersey (ms. sherrill). ms. sherrill. mr. speaker, i rise today with an incredible amount of pride to speak for the people of new jersey, to speak for the heroes in healthcare who have labored around the clock to provide the best care in the nation. i rise for those workers and for the first responders who are running out of personal protective gear. i rise for the brave men and women who are going through these tough times to help us: the grocery store workers, delivery people, and volunteers bringing food to the elderly and the sick. i rise for our manufacturers, our researchers, and our state and local officials. i rise for everyday families, small business owners, and laborers who are losing their jobs and are not sure what the future holds. i rise for everyone in my great state to tell you that, together, we will beat this. in congress, i will continue to work to get you the relief you need. in this nation, we, as a people, have always come together in a crisis, and i have seen firsthand that this time is no different. i rise today to ask that god bless this house, god bless the state of new jersey, and god bless the united states of america. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from florida (mr. spano). mr. spano. mr. speaker, i rise to speak in favor of the cares act with optimism. on one hand is cautious optimism because we face unprecedented challenges, but on the other, confident optimism of what can be accomplished when we work together. we come together for those who are bravely working on the front lines of the fight: our nurses and doctors at lakeland regional, brandon regional, southlake hospital, or one of the many other medical providers across my district. we come together for families, like the single mom who worked two jobs in florida's tourism industry to keep food on the table but now does not know when her next paycheck will come. we come together to support the backbone of our economy: small business. i have spoken to many small business owners this week who are desperately trying to figure out how to keep their employees. as a former small business owner myself, i understand the decisions that they are facing. as a fiscal conservative, i am cautious about this bill, but i understand the cost our country would pay without it. when we face adversity, we rise to confront the threat head-on. for those in florida's 15th district and around the country, remain optimistic because we will win this fight together. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from maryland (mr. trone). mr. trone. mr. speaker, our nation has never seen anything like the coronavirus outbreak. [[page h1838]] at a time when our american businesses are forced to close and american families face fear and uncertainty, we do what americans do best: we come together and support one another. my background is business. i have run a small business and a large organization. this bill puts workers first. it is good for american business. it puts workers first with an additional $600 a week in unemployment insurance. it puts families first, funneling $1,200 directly into the pockets of americans. it supports small business with a $377 billion infusion for fast relief through grants and loans. this bill is what the american people and the american economy need. it is time to come together as one nation, united against this outbreak. i urge support for this bill. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from tennessee (mr. john w. rose). mr. john w. rose of tennessee. mr. speaker, a month ago, our nation stood on the highest mountaintop, marveling at the supposed limitlessness of our domain. today, barely 3 weeks later, awakening from an abundance-induced stupor, we find ourselves deep in the valley, peering perilously into the abyss. i hope that the safety net we are attempting to purchase today with our nation's scarce treasure does not dull too much the alarm that this crisis has sounded for our country to reform its ways. i pray that from this low point, we will seek out a great revival of faith in our almighty god and a renewed commitment to the principles of freedom, liberty, and self-reliance. for those in this congress who have used this crisis to loot the public treasury and serve special interests above the common good, i trust that our people and history will judge you as harshly as you deserve. and today, i give thanks for our president. mr. connolly. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from maine (mr. golden). mr. golden. mr. speaker, this morning, thousands of mainers are staying home and doing their part to bend the curve in the fight against the coronavirus. but thousands of healthcare professionals, shipbuilders, grocery store employees, and many others deemed essential got up this morning and went to work. they will do their jobs in this difficult time, despite the risk, because people depend on them. congress should not be any different. we are about to vote on a bill in response to the pandemic sweeping through our nation and the growing economic crisis that follows it. nearly 900 pages long, my office received the text a little over 24 hours ago. i will be honest, many of us are still working to understand this bill in full, portions drafted by lobbyists with loopholes you might drive a mack truck through. only time will tell whether this behemoth will fully deliver on its economic promises. it will not fully stop the deepening recession. only the loosening of the tourniquet will let the blood flow back into our economy, but that is not yet an option. i will, however, support this relief act. it is not a stimulus. it is an emergency relief act providing $100 billion to hospitals. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from ohio (mr. johnson). mr. johnson of ohio. mr. speaker, we are here today debating a massive stimulus bill, not by choice but by duty. the coronavirus is an unseen enemy that threatens countless american lives, a nuclear bomb to our economy. yesterday, we learned a record 3- plus million americans have filed for unemployment. workers are hurting. small businesses are hurting. thousands of americans are sick. health experts tell us we have several more weeks of this collective suffering ahead. but there is good news, lots of it. americans from coast to coast are pitching in to help the cause. businesses are changing production lines to make ventilators and hand sanitizer. surgical masks are being donated by the millions. we are lining up to give blood. healthcare workers are being cheered like rock stars during shift changes. americans are pulling together. everyday heroes are emerging, the teachers teaching their classes over the internet and the doctors and nurses working superhuman shifts while friends and neighbors step up to provide childcare for them. we are seeing the best of america. now the house must do its part. vote ``yes.'' mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from pennsylvania (ms. scanlon). ms. scanlon. mr. speaker, i rise to support the cares act, the third relief package that will pass through the house this month, and we know it is not the last. this bill will help protect the health, safety, and economic security of all americans. i want to say that i am so grateful to our state and local officials, our first responders and healthcare workers, our postal and grocery workers, all of whom are fighting for our communities. i am grateful to our friends and neighbors for listening to our medical experts and staying home to slow the spread of the coronavirus. {time} 1100 but they cannot do it alone. as the numbers of patients and deaths are mounting, our doctors and nurses are telling us they are working without the protective gear and medical equipment they need. we need to end the disconnect between what the president is saying and what is really happening in america. we need the president to use the defense production act to produce and distribute the medical supplies we need. i am so grateful to our colleagues for moving quickly to pass this bill and help the american people, and i urge the president to do the same. mr. cloud. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from florida (mr. bilirakis). mr. bilirakis. mr. speaker, this is a historic moment in the u.s. house. we need to pass an unprecedented economic package that will prevent financial disaster for millions of americans. we must get people working again. this bill funds programs for small businesses, including independent contractors and nonprofits. it provides up to $1,200 for taxpayers who earn $75,000 or less, as well as $500 per child. additionally, seniors and disabled veterans are also eligible for checks. these payments will not be considered taxable income for 2020, mr. speaker. most importantly, critical funding to provide personal equipment and test kits for healthcare professionals is on the way. for sure, this is a spending bill. i am not happy with everything, but i will vote ``yes'' to save the lives and livelihood of my constituents. i ask for swift passage as soon as possible, mr. speaker. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the distinguished gentlewoman from michigan (ms. slotkin). ms. slotkin. mr. speaker, think about the most iconic images from 9/ 11: just after the attacks, people running away from the towers as our first responders were running toward the flames. it was a generational event. today, as so many stay home, those who are running toward the crisis are our healthcare workers, our first responders. they are on the front lines--our supermarket workers, our truck drivers, our border agents and tsa agents. right now, we are sending them into the fight without the gear that they need. we owe them our passion. we owe them to work together, democrats and republicans. above all, we owe them a plan. meanwhile, americans are doing their best. michiganders are coming together in ways that i could hardly imagine, from the big three autos to our smallest manufacturers, trying to fill the gaps. today, here, we must do our part. we must pass the cares act. it is imperfect. it is the third appropriation. i hope there will be a fourth. but it is our duty to come together and pass it. mr. cloud. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new jersey (mr. van drew). mr. van drew. mr. speaker, the pain being felt in south jersey and in this nation is real. i have listened, and [[page h1839]] i have heard the stories. what we are doing today will soothe some of the pain, but it is just the beginning. america was founded and has thrived with the idea that we are an exceptional nation. we are exceptional not because of our differences but because of what unites us in times of adversity. this legislation is a testament to our strength that we show in that unity. while we must maintain a physical distance from one another to slow the curve of our hidden enemy, we must remain closer than ever in our hearts and in our souls to one another. i stand with my colleagues ready to fight this disease, fight for our families, fight for their jobs, and fight to keep our nation. may god bless america, and may god bless all of us as we go forward with our work. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from michigan (mrs. lawrence). mrs. lawrence. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of the cares act. at this time, our country needs this congress to act with a bipartisan commitment to ensuring the safety and the well-being of our constituents. although this package is not perfect, we must support our postal workers. we must ensure our municipalities have the funding to survive. but it will immediately provide workers, families, health professionals, and first responders the resources that they need. today, we can provide a direct cash infusion into our economy, and we will provide more than $170 billion in support to purchase the needed ppes and give our hospitals grants to offset revenue losses. however, our work is not done. as confirmed cases in michigan and across the country continue to rise, i will work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to address the outstanding issues. and i want to say: god bless america, and we need to do our work. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from kentucky (mr. barr). mr. barr. mr. speaker, i rise on behalf of the people of central kentucky in support of the most aggressive fiscal stimulus in american history. founding father john adams famously said that every problem is an opportunity in disguise. this insidious virus, and the resulting shutdown of our economy, is a very serious problem. but because of the spirit of the american people, it is also an opportunity. it is an opportunity to support the heroic work of america's hospitals, healthcare workers, and doctors and give them the resources they need to stay safe and take care of the sick. it is an opportunity to go to war against this virus, to unleash the creative energies of america's private sector, and to help our scientists and researchers find therapies, a vaccine, and a cure. it is an opportunity to give american workers, small business owners, and families the cash flow they need to get back to work. it is an opportunity to provide liquidity and financial support to our markets to fuel a powerful economic recovery. and it is an opportunity to come together as a nation, not as republicans or democrats, but as americans, to rise to the occasion, as we have done so many times before, to confront this challenge and deliver a stronger, healthier, and more prosperous america. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, can i get the time remaining for both sides? the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman from maryland has 22 minutes remaining. the gentleman from texas has 31 minutes remaining. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from michigan (mr. huizenga). mr. huizenga. mr. speaker, i rise today on behalf of the people of west michigan, for the individuals and families who have seen their world turned upside down by covid-19. our neighbors, friends, and family members are losing their income. small businesses are closing their doors. manufacturers, big and small, are shuttering their facilities. all this is happening not because of bad business decisions or personal choices but because of a virus. the cares act will deliver critical relief to west michigan residents, small businesses, and our medical professionals. this package will help tens of thousands of constituents in my district stay employed. while i do not agree with every proposal included in this bill, the vast majority of it will work directly to provide relief to the people who need it most. communities across the nation expect this body to act today. finally, i want to say thank you to the first responders, nurses, and doctors who are serving our communities on the front lines. thank you to the farmers, the food processors, the truck drivers, and those stocking the shelves to make sure goods are available in this time of need. we are all in this together, mr. speaker. god bless america. let us pass this bill. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from colorado (mr. buck). mr. buck. mr. speaker, i rise today to oppose the cares act. i agree that we are facing an unprecedented emergency, one tied directly to china's nefarious actions. however, as president trump said, we cannot let the cure be worse than the problem itself. the president has shown strong leadership, seeking to help struggling families and small businesses. congress must do the same. but we cannot do so at the expense of our children and grandchildren's future. the truth is, this bill will spend $6 trillion, not $2 trillion. even that cost fails to include the cost of borrowing this money. there is no attempt by congress to reduce spending elsewhere in the budget to pay for this bill. the sad truth is that most of this money in this bill is unrelated to fighting the coronavirus. we believe that the fight against the virus will take 6 to 8 weeks, yet this spends money decades into the future. while it is clearly necessary to do something to help our country fight this disease, this bill is not the answer. our country needs help, but this cure is worse than the problem. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. panetta). mr. panetta. mr. speaker, at this time--just like i said last week, and i say it again this week--the covid-19 pandemic will get worse before it gets better. it will get worse for our public health. it will get worse for our financial health. that is why i rise in support of the cares act. with these shelter- in-place orders, we are continuing to try to flatten the corona curve. but when we do that, figuratively, we are putting our economy in a medically induced coma, a step that, as we have seen this week, has led to one of the worst employment rates in our history. that is why we need one of the biggest stimulus packages in our history. the cares act will expand unemployment insurance for restaurant, retail, and hotel workers on the central coast of california. it will assist my specialty crop farmers in the salad and berry bowls of the world. it will provide small businesses across this country with the loans necessary to survive. with this bruising pandemic, we are asking our constituents to do something that is not normal: to stand down, to stay inside, to separate from one another. they are relying on us to do the right thing: to step up and to support the cares act. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from florida (mr. waltz). mr. waltz. mr. speaker, as a fiscal conservative, $2.2 trillion of our grandchildren's money is a tough pill to swallow. but this is a two-front war on our economy and on public health. on the economic front, we must provide a lifeline to individuals, businesses, and seniors that are suffering collateral damage. and on the health front, we must send reinforcements to our healthcare workers. this morning, i spoke with a physician and family member heading into the emergency room in manhattan. she said she is scared. like combat, i told her, you have to take a deep breath, stay focused, and do what you are trained to do. [[page h1840]] these hospitals are the omaha beach of this war. colleagues, in the foxhole, nobody cares about race, religion, creed, socioeconomic background. they certainly do not care about republican and democrat. it is about mission. it is about country. we have a duty to provide these soldiers what they need. we have a duty to support this bill. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from indiana (mr. banks). mr. banks. mr. speaker, over the last 10 days, i have seen the very best of america. i have seen restaurants umi seafood and lucille's bbq in fort wayne deliver thousands of meals to those who need it. i have seen tnt floral shop in columbia city deliver flowers to every nursing home resident in my county. i have seen many lining up to donate blood. i have seen so many healthcare professionals put themselves in harm's way on the front lines. mr. speaker, it is time for congress to join them and bring relief to our neighbors who needed it yesterday. the cares act will keep the lights on in america. it will put cash in the hands of americans who need help to pay their bills and put food on the table. it will give a lifeline to small businesses when they need it most. this is, by no means, a perfect bill, but it gets help to the people who need it most. i hope we will come back and make changes, as needed, in the near future. mr. speaker, in this time of national crisis, we must continue working together and with president trump to keep our country in the fight. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. mcclintock). mr. mcclintock. mr. speaker, covid-19 did not kill our economy. government policies, however well intentioned, did that. in just a few weeks, they have derailed the most promising and prosperous economy of our lifetimes and put us in imminent danger of permanently destroying millions of american jobs. the unprecedented spending in this bill threatens to destabilize the fiscal structure of our federal government and suppress future economic growth. but in order to deal with those issues, we must first arrest the damage caused by the actions that have plunged us into a recession. temporary job losses will soon become permanent job losses, without federally guaranteed loans to preserve those jobs and a way for families to recoup their financial losses. this bill does so, although inefficiently, wastefully, and at enormous cost. despite all its flaws, passage of this bill is, therefore, imperative. but it is no substitute for getting americans back to work soon. mr. connolly. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to my distinguished colleague from massachusetts (mrs. trahan). mrs. trahan. mr. speaker, since day one of this congress, democrats have committed themselves to a for the people agenda. today is no different. the covid-19 pandemic is impacting people across the world, our country, and my district. it is for the people that we stand here today to assist families, uplift workers whose basic livelihoods have been threatened, strengthen our community hospitals, and support our frontline healthcare workers. we are here to deliver relief to people, like the owner of a community bookstore in andover, massachusetts, whose business has been crushed; to keep our end of the bargain for the hospital workers at places like lawrence general, lowell community health center, and so many others who are putting their lives on the line each day. we are here for the families who are worried about their basic health and safety. this bill delivers for them. this is a time for bold action, and much more needs to come. for families struggling with the harsh realities of this situation, know that we will keep protecting you. we will take our lessons and courage from our frontline workers, from the families banding together to care for their loved ones, from the acts of kindness we are seeing all over our country as we stand united as americans. i support this bill. mr. brady. mr. speaker, may i inquire how much time is remaining on both sides. the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman from texas has 26 minutes remaining. the gentleman from maryland has 20 minutes remaining. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from south carolina (mr. norman). {time} 1200 mr. norman. mr. speaker, during times like this, it brings out the best and the worst. the best has been a president who is working nonstop. the best have been those businesses that are producing the masks and the things that we need, and the best has been the churches that are praying nonstop. now, the worst has been the price tag, and the worst has been the things that were added to this that had nothing to do with the coronavirus, the $25 million for the kennedy center and $75 million for the national arts. this has nothing to do with the coronavirus. this nation shall survive. in the words of winston churchill: there are times when doing our best is not good enough. we will do what is required in spite of this. mr. connolly. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from florida (mr. soto). mr. soto. mr. speaker, as i rise here today, the united states has more coronavirus cases than any nation on the planet. this is an unprecedented crisis that requires an unprecedented response. this bipartisan bill is a promise that help is on the way, that help is on the way for families with $1,200 checks and $2,400 for married families for food assistance. for the unemployed, help is on the way with $600 in unemployment benefits on top of state benefits. help is on the way for our seniors and our veterans of financial assistance. help is on the way for small businesses through payroll grants and other costs. for first responders and hospitals, help is on the way to confront this crisis. to our farmers and to our students, help is on the way. it is time to pass this bipartisan bill and send a message to central florida and every american across every corner of this nation that there is help because help and hope are on the way. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from oklahoma (mr. kevin hern). mr. kevin hern of oklahoma. mr. speaker, it is unfortunate that this bill was delayed in pursuit of certain wasteful provisions that have nothing to do with the coronavirus. with that said, i am thankful that the vast majority of this bill rightly focuses on the needs of americans. it will save small businesses in my district, provide much-needed funds to the hospitals on the front lines of this fight, and provide the safety net for people who lose their jobs due to no fault of their own. america is hurting. the american people need us now more than ever. thanks to leader mccarthy and president trump and the members involved for their unrelenting work on this. to the american people, it is much later than anyone wanted, but help is on the way. mr. speaker, i urge a ``yes'' vote. may god bless us all. mr. connolly. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. cox). mr. cox of california. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of today's bill which is a bipartisan, good faith effort to begin to provide relief to millions of american families and workers. while not perfect, it is a good start. in the last few weeks, i spoke to thousands of my central valley neighbors. last week, i had a townhall where 9,000 constituents called in. they are scared. they are worried. but they are looking for guidance and leadership, and today they are looking for relief. no american should have to choose between paying rent and putting food on their table. but without immediate assistance, this is exactly the choice they will have to make. as a representative of the top ag district in the top ag state, i am proud this bill shores up vital safety net programs for our farmers and ranchers and [[page h1841]] their families. but i am disappointed about this bill's glaring shortcomings which must be remedied in a future bill. this bill punishes mixed-status households and denies some american citizens benefits they deserve. it does not put a penny in the cdfi fund to help disadvantaged communities. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. grothman). mr. grothman. mr. speaker, we have gone from a story that barely affected americans 3 weeks ago to a $2 trillion bill today. the cost is too high. but the crisis in response to government experts may be right and may be wrong, who said: do not fly, do not eat out, do not worship together, and do not go to school. our economy was shattered. was our president held up by irresponsible democrats and too many irresponsible republicans for excessive spending? yes. but we must act to calm the panic and move back to normalcy. i flew here yesterday with five passengers on the only southwest flight from milwaukee. usually there are two almost-full flights. restaurants are shuttered by the government, and their employees are laid off. president trump is right to act and stand up to the purists who have let businesses go under or do not understand that even the greatest of presidents have had to compromise. i am concerned about the unemployment benefits going over $900 a week--more than most wisconsin people make. i want to help americans laid off, but this provision delays the recovery, and i hope americans do not bite on it. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the distinguished gentleman from california (mr. harder). mr. harder of california. mr. speaker, we have two obligations in responding to this pandemic: first, to move quickly and urgently; and second, to put science and health ahead of partisan politics. neither of those two things happened, but this bill is a step forward. it helps all the workers who have lost their jobs. it helps the businesses that are struggling with customers not showing up and staying home, and it helps the frontline nurses, doctors, and first responders who need more equipment. there is more to do. as soon as we pass this bill, we need to keep working to make sure that we are expanding paid leave, expanding access to healthcare, and making sure that we continue to protect each and every person who is out there as a first responder. until then, i want to thank my friends from both sides of the aisle who are for working to get this done, and i urge us to pass it as soon as possible. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from texas (mr. gohmert). mr. gohmert. mr. speaker, it is interesting hearing all this talk about we have got to do it now, we have got to do it now. it has been delayed since last weekend because of our friends across the aisle. also, regarding the bill that we previously passed, it exempted the big corporations we are now hearing are so evil. so we need to get our story consistent here. but thank goodness the president put a travel ban in while some were trying to conspire, spy, and impeach. he kept being persistent, and, as a result, there are fewer people with the disease. now, $2 trillion is vastly too much money, but i spent much of the night reviewing all of the sunsets in the bill. i am satisfied that most of them will prevent most of the waste, but there are some pet projects in here. mr. speaker, it is time to turn back to the god that so many have turned from and then use the tools we have got to help those who have been put in jeopardy. i will vote for the bill. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the distinguished gentleman from south carolina (mr. clyburn), who is the democratic whip. mr. clyburn. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman for yielding me the time. i just want to take a moment to thank all of my colleagues for responding to what is an unprecedented event in the history of this country. many of us who have studied history know full well that the country has been here before, and we have always recovered. the problem is many times that recovery is uneven. what we have done to this legislation is created the opportunity to have a more equitable recovery taking place, and i thank you all for doing that. the fact of the matter is this is a great country which does not have to be made great again. what we have got to do is make this country's greatness accessible and affordable for all americans. this legislation makes an attempt to do that. i would hope that, as we go forward, we will build upon it, and, when we come back, which we will, we will have an equitable society for all. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from north dakota (mr. armstrong). mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, throughout our history, the american people have mobilized in extraordinary and unprecedented ways in times of national crisis, but the enemy we face today has required a different response. to defeat covid-19, we have asked most americans to do what comes so unnaturally to them: stay home. we have asked businesses to shutter, employees to stop going to work, and churches to close. entire industries have lost their consumer base overnight. the american people did not cause this crisis but are responding the way they always do: by being smart, tough, and compassionate. we owe it to them to give them this support. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. omar). ms. omar. mr. speaker, i rise in support of this bill, not because it is perfect or even sufficient, but because the lives and the livelihoods of americans are at risk. this bill provides immediate cash assistance. it allows for unemployment benefits. it puts direct money in the hands of small businesses who are struggling in my district. it creates $100 billion in assistance to hospitals, something minnesota hospitals are desperately in need of, and it creates $150 billion in funding, necessary funding, for state and local governments. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from north carolina (mr. bishop). mr. bishop of north carolina. mr. speaker, i am going to vote ``yes'' enthusiastically. this is a big bill, but the american people are bigger. they will respond to the present threat as americans have always faced grave challenges: as free men and women with deep reservoirs of strength, capability, and, when summoned, duty and confidence. it is the duty of some to mobilize this government to backstop the economy; the duty of some to isolate, to blunt, the contagion; the duty of some to face the risk tending the afflicted; and, fellow americans, the duty of the rest of us to mobilize the unstoppable force of the american economy to provide supplies, innovate technologies, and enlarge healthcare capacities to meet the needs of all and to defeat this enemy. with god's help, this virus is no match for the united states of america. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, because we are getting towards the end, can you give us the time that each side has remaining. the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman from maryland has 15\1/2\ minutes remaining. the gentleman from texas has 20 minutes remaining. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from west virginia (mr. mooney). mr. mooney of west virginia. mr. speaker, there are good parts of this bill, the things president trump asked for at the very beginning, like tax relief for employers, help for those who lost their jobs, and funding for the medical community and first responders. i thank president trump for his excellent leadership. i had a couple of ideas i would have liked to offer as amendments to this bill, but this is a closed process. 435 members of congress cannot even offer amendments. that is not the way we are supposed to make legislation, especially when it spends $2 trillion. [[page h1842]] there are parts of this bill that are unrelated to the coronavirus: $1 billion for amtrak, money for national public radio and the arts. but what we are not talking about is how we are going to pay for this. we all agree about spending $2 trillion, but how are we going to pay for it? are we going to borrow from china? are we going to borrow it from russia? are we going to just print the money and devalue our current currency? that is not being talked about. the interest on the national debt every year is already about half a trillion dollars, every year, going forward. we could use that money to pay for epidemics like this and fund our troops. so, going forward, we need to talk about balancing our budget and paying for things. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from alabama (mr. byrne). mr. byrne. mr. speaker, last week, 3.3 million americans filed for unemployment. small businesses around this country are shuttering. millions of americans and their children are at home practicing social distancing, a term that few knew 2 weeks ago. countless others are on the front lines in our hospitals, doctors' offices, and pharmacies or simply checking us out at the grocery store. yesterday, i spoke to many small businesses in my district on a call. i was asked to give them hope. to the american people who are watching: there is hope, and help is on the way. there are many things in this bill i do not like. there are portions that i think are a mistake. but, mr. speaker, this is our time for action. do not hold this bill up. we owe it to the citizens of this great country who are struggling. we owe action for them today. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from virginia (mr. beyer). mr. beyer. mr. speaker, the last pandemic, i want to draw attention to the research investments in the cares act. the department of energy has funds for its high-end computing capabilities. the national science foundation will do molecular and cellular research. nist will ensure the validity of and the reliability of the testing, and the epa will do research on the risk of transmission. mr. speaker, my grandfather lost his wife and first son in the flu epidemic in 1919, yet this is not the last novel virus. but with the bold, sustained commitment to science, we can make covid-19 the last pandemic. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from georgia (mr. carter). mr. carter of georgia. mr. speaker, our country finds itself in uncharted waters. none of us have ever experienced anything like this before. for the past 2 weeks, i have been at home in the first district of georgia visiting with individuals and with small business owners. i have seen something i have never seen before. i have seen people who are concerned, concerned about their health, concerned about their future. mr. speaker, this is something we have to address. i have also seen something i have never seen before either, and that is people pulling together, people doing for each other, people caring for each other, volunteering at food banks and volunteering at service organizations. i have seen healthcare workers putting their own health at risk to deliver services. i have seen the best of america as well. mr. speaker, it is our opportunity here, our responsibility to help these people, to deliver to them. no, this is not a perfect bill. if i had the opportunity, i would change a number of things in it, but it is what we need to do, mr. speaker. mr. speaker, more than anything, what we need to do is we need to pray. we need to pray to the god of abraham and the god of david. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from michigan (mr. kildee). mr. kildee. mr. speaker, i thank my friend for yielding. this is an unprecedented moment for this country, and it is important that this congress respond in a way consistent with this threat. we have differences about this bill. there are things in it that many of us do not like, but this moves us forward. this gives the american people the support they need in order to follow the medical advice that they are given without putting their families at risk. it supports small businesses. it puts money in the hands of americans so that they can take care of their families financially while they are taking care of their families. i support this legislation. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from michigan (mr. bergman). mr. bergman. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act. this legislation takes major steps to support american workers and families during this unprecedented time. it provides increased funding to get our healthcare workers essential supplies and equipment. it also helps small businesses that have been asked to close their doors and sacrifice their livelihoods for everyone's health and safety. this bill is not perfect. i am disappointed that we are paying for things that do not have anything to do with covid-19, and i am concerned about inadvertent damage we may be doing to our seasonal businesses by incentivizing people to stay at home rather than going back to work once shelter-in-place restrictions are lifted. small, seasonal businesses are the lifeblood of michigan's first district, and, as we implement this policy, i will do everything i can to prevent unintended consequences from happening. the people of michigan's first district are resilient. we have survived hardships before, and we will again. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this bill. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from new hampshire (ms. kuster). ms. kuster of new hampshire. mr. speaker, i rise to support this unprecedented emergency relief for the american people. my colleague chris pappas and i have spoken with tens of thousands of our constituents through telephone townhalls and conference calls with hospitals. i want support for our people who have lost their jobs, for our small businesses, but, most importantly, for our frontline healthcare workers in our rural hospitals. we need supplies, and we need support. i thank you for voting ``yes.'' {time} 1220 mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from texas (mr. crenshaw). mr. crenshaw. mr. speaker, businesses large and small, through no fault of their own, are failing. we told them to shut down and workers are losing their jobs. let me clear something up for everyone. a loss of a job is a loss of a job whether from a large business or a small business, and it is devastating for families. americans need help. thankfully, this bill covers it all, from direct aid to accelerated loans. but when every day counts in a crisis, this bill was delayed by democrats unnecessarily for a totally unrelated progressive wish list. i do not get mad, but this made me mad. and, in the end, the final bill today is barely different than last weekend, and the record will show that. but we have it now, and we should pass it now. it will soften the upcoming hardship. but we must not be complacent, for we have more difficult decisions ahead: how will we balance the opening of society with the pandemic? it is a tough question, and we will not be able to answer that question if the antics of this week continue. the country will move forward together as americans, not as petty, opportunistic partisans. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the distinguished gentleman from new york (mr. meeks). mr. meeks. mr. speaker, my home state of new york has become the epicenter of this terrible pandemic. this bill brings financial support to increase the number of hospital beds and equip our brave doctors, nurses, emts, and other medical providers who are our front line of defense and should not be asked to risk their lives to save others. [[page h1843]] this crisis will pass and our economy will recover, but american families and workers who lost their jobs by the millions, through no fault of their own, desperately need this financial support now. this bill provides important grants and loans to small businesses which will be critical to our economic recovery. there is more for us to do, but this bill is an important first step to secure american families and workers. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from tennessee (mr. burchett). mr. burchett. mr. speaker, when i was 5 or 6 years old, i had a sunday school teacher tell me a story that relates to a little bit of what we are doing right now. a small child went missing in the plains states. the community went in 100 different directions. they did not find the child. there was no result. they final came together. they prayed to god, asking for wisdom. they ended up holding hands and walking across the prairie. they found that child. mr. speaker, this country needs to remember that, and this body needs to remember that. i think we need to put our partisanship aside. we need to quit bickering, and we need to ask almighty god for wisdom and to do what is right. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from illinois (ms. underwood). ms. underwood. mr. speaker, i rise today in strong support of the cares act. over 2,500 illinoisans have been diagnosed with the coronavirus, 26 of whom have died. countless more are in need of testing, and thousands of our frontline healthcare workers are desperate for ppes. just this month, over 130,000 illinoisans have lost their jobs. this is unprecedented. the cares act provides immediate economic relief to individuals, billions in small business loans and grants, and improved unemployment protections. it will help states, local governments, and healthcare systems meet the enormous challenges that they are facing. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am pleased to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new jersey (mr. smith), head of the pro-life caucus. mr. smith of new jersey. mr. speaker, as of today, in my state alone, 6,800 people have been tested positive, with 81 deaths; and, in one family alone, four members of the family have died. containing the pandemic and developing and deploying reliable therapeutics and a safe and effective vaccine must be our highest priority no matter the cost. people, especially those on the front lines in healthcare, first responders, are heroically meeting the challenge offered, at great personal cost. the $2.2 trillion cares act is comprehensive and absolutely needed. it provides unprecedented support for taxpayers, small businesses, and grants to hospitals; it helps state and local governments; and it boosts unemployment and food security. special thanks to all of those on the house and senate side for their leadership, for their cooperation on this bill, and to president trump, the vice president, dr. birx, dr. fauci, and many others who have brought their expertise to confronting this huge challenge. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from missouri (mr. clay). mr. clay. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of the cares act, and i am so proud of the emergency housing priorities, including a temporary moratorium on evictions and foreclosures of homeowners with federally backed mortgages. there is $4 billion for emergency grants for homelessness, $5 billion for cdbgs, and $1 billion for project- based rental assistance. we are in this fight together, and we will not be broken. viruses come and go, but the courage of the american people endures. god bless you all. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from missouri (mrs. hartzler), the chairwoman of the house values action team. mrs. hartzler. mr. speaker, we are at war against an unseen enemy our world has never faced before. we are battling on two fronts: the healthcare front and the economic front. thousands of people are sick, with courageous healthcare workers battling on the front lines. meanwhile, millions of americans have lost their jobs because of the virus, imperiling family budgets and devastating our economy. today's bill sends needed battle reinforcements to both fronts. it provides funds to purchase more medical supplies and to support our hospitals, while also sending much-needed help to businesses so that they can make payroll and keep the doors open. it sends money directly to almost every household and supports those who have lost their job due to the covid-19 crisis. most importantly, it gives this nation hope: hope that we will get through this by supporting our healthcare workers, enabling businesses to stay open, and sending americans funds needed to get them through. while this bill is far from perfect and the price tag is sobering, i believe we are in an unprecedented battle, and it is imperative we win this war. i will be voting ``yes,'' and i invite all americans to join us in this battle. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from new york (mr. espaillat). mr. espaillat. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of the cares act. mr. speaker, it would be criminal not to support billions of dollars for our hospitals and healthcare workers. it would be criminal not to support billions of dollars for our small businesses that will be struggling. it would be criminal not to support help for working families, $1,200 for individuals, $500 for a child. but it is also criminal to leave out immigrants. they clean our houses and take care of our children and the elderly. it is also criminal to shortchange new york, which has become the epicenter of this epidemic. the delay of ventilators and ppes has also been criminal. remember, all of you: new york is your future. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from florida (mr. mast). mr. mast. mr. speaker, i would rather die than see my country stumble or fall, and, by god, i mean that. and i do not think i am the only one in this body who feels this way. i have worried that, as a result of a virus that was born in a disgusting market in wuhan china that was hidden from the world, our country may stumble. but i can tell you that that worry has subsided quickly for me as i looked around my own community and realized, again, that americans are a salty group of tough sobs who are defeated by absolutely nothing. this is not going to defeat us either. there are parts of this bill that i do not like, but i am proud that, when americans wake up tomorrow, they are going to continue to know that we wake up here not as victims, but as people with a greater opportunity than anybody across the world: 50 stars, 13 red and white stripes. we get to decide for ourselves if today is better than yesterday, this week is better than next week, this month is better than last month, and next year and so on. nobody else gets to decide that for us. that has not changed, and it will never change. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. lamb). mr. lamb. mr. speaker, i know a firefighter who is going into sick people's homes still today with no mask. we all talk like this is war, but did george marshall, a western pennsylvanian, wait for u.s. steel to join the u.s. war effort in their own good time? no. he used to say: you cannot fight against the problem. you have to decide it. we have given this government money. we cannot give it leadership. now is the time to decide this problem. take this money, buy the masks, build the ventilators, and protect our people now. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from american samoa (mrs. radewagen). mrs. radewagen. mr. speaker, i rise in overwhelming support of this bipartisan legislation. the country needs [[page h1844]] it, and american samoa desperately needs it. american samoa has unique economic and geographic challenges. so far, my constituents are without any coronavirus testing at all, as nbc recently reported. the army corps of engineers has reported our lbj hospital needs over $100 million, at a minimum, for improvements just to meet compliance standards. i want to thank the president for his leadership, and i thank my colleagues for including my request that the pacific territories and the freely associated states are in the definition of ``state,'' so all pandemic unemployment assistance programs apply to us. our people are strong and their faith is strong. let us get this funding to work and provide testing in american samoa. mr. speaker, may god bless us all. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from new york--again, the epicenter--(ms. clarke), who knows this firsthand. ms. clarke of new york. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman for yielding. as vice chair of the energy and commerce committee, i rise today in support of the cares act. my colleagues have spoken about the provisions of this bill, and although it is not perfect, it is a necessary one. we must now protect my constituents in the ninth district of new york, the epicenter, and all americans across this country. new yorkers have been through 9/11, the financial meltdown, superstorm sandy, and now we are in the midst of covid-19. in my city, new york city, we are not just facing economic ruin, but also a genuine health crisis. that is why it is so critical that donald trump use the defense production act. mr. brady. mr. speaker, may i inquire as to the time remaining on both sides. the speaker pro tempore (mr. kildee). the gentleman from texas has 10\1/2\ minutes remaining. the gentleman from maryland has 11 minutes remaining. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from indiana (mrs. brooks). mrs. brooks of indiana. mr. speaker, i urge strong support for the cares act. for years, my colleague and i from across the aisle, anna eshoo, have worked to pass the pandemic and all-hazards preparedness act that was signed into law in june of 2019. for years, we have said it was not a matter of if we would have a pandemic, but when we would have a pandemic. that when is now. now is not the time to place blame. now is not the time to look back. now is the time to act and to look forward. now is the time to restore confidence in this body. now is the time to pass this act for those healthcare workers who are staying at the hospital while they are begging us to stay home. now is the time for all of those schoolchildren who are watching this body, thinking about and learning about this body, to show them that we can come together and govern. now is the time to pass the cares act. may god bless america. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from the northern mariana islands (mr. sablan), who does such an excellent job. mr. sablan. mr. speaker, the legislation we are considering to stop the coronavirus is not perfect. no legislation ever is, and we have more work to do. but even amid the crisis, we should not forget to say thank you. for the third time, speaker pelosi has led this house to respond forcefully to the coronavirus, to give healthcare providers resources, to give families financial aid, and to support workers and businesses. throughout this unprecedented time, always the speaker and her leadership team remembered that the united states of america includes the people of the northern mariana islands, and for that i am grateful. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from new york (ms. stefanik). ms. stefanik. mr. speaker, new york is the epicenter of the coronavirus crisis today, and i want to thank our north country heroes on the front lines: our nurses, our doctors, our hospital personnel, ems first responders, teachers, grocers, and truckers. the better angels of our nature are among us each and every day: volunteers coming forward, quilting groups in the adirondacks, students using 3d printers, and mask making from sackets harbor to saratoga flag. this emergency bill needed to pass yesterday. it needed to pass last week. new yorkers and this nation need this relief immediately for our hospitals, healthcare heroes, and hardworking families. this country is a resilient nation, from the american revolution to the civil war, to the pandemic flu, to 9/11, we will overcome this. congress needs to step up, do our job, and pass this rescue package today for new york state and the american people. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, it gives me great honor to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new york (mr. jeffries), again, from the epicenter of this challenge that we have as a country and the chairman of the democratic caucus. mr. jeffries. mr. speaker, america is the wealthiest country in the history of the world. we also have assembled the mightiest military. but you cannot judge the greatness of america based on our wealth or our military might. we should only judge the greatness of america based on how we stand up for the least, the lost, and the left behind. the cares act is legislation that will help provide relief to the most vulnerable amongst us. it will provide relief to everyday americans. it will provide relief to small businesses. it will provide relief to displaced workers. the coronavirus is a silent assassin and has targeted the american people. but we are a resilient nation. we defeated the great depression. we defeated nazi germany. we defeated jim crow. we will defeat covid-19 as well. mr. brady. mr. speaker, may i once again inquire as to the time remaining. the speaker pro tempore (mr. brown of maryland). the gentleman from texas has 8\1/2\ minutes remaining. the gentleman from maryland has 9\1/2\ minutes remaining. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i am proud to yield 1 minute to the gentleman from illinois (mr. bost). mr. bost. mr. speaker, i rise today in strong support of the cares act. even in rural southern illinois there are 27 cases in my district. we need to come together in a bipartisan manner with this bill to deal with: first, the health of our constituents; second, the health of their pocketbooks in this bill; third, those businesses where they need to go back to work, whether it is a small business or a large business. this bill does that. is it perfect? no. but it is the right step forward that we need to do, and do today. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from massachusetts (ms. clark), the distinguished vice chair of the democratic caucus. ms. clark of massachusetts. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of the cares act. americans are facing a public health crisis that is an unprecedented threat to the health and safety of our communities. hospitals are struggling to care for our communities and get the protective equipment they need. the pandemic has brought schools, businesses, and whole states to a standstill, including my home state of massachusetts. americans are calling for help, and today we will vote to bring them relief and offer them a lifeline, but it will not be the end of our support. to those on the front lines--healthcare workers, cashiers, childcare providers, truck drivers, cleaners, and postal workers--and to all americans, we say: we see you. we appreciate and are grateful for your sacrifice, and we will continue to fight for the people. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from virginia (mr. wittman). mr. wittman. mr. speaker, i rise today on behalf of the citizens of the first congressional district of virginia to say that america's glass is still half full. while we face this unprecedented challenge, we see across our nation the resolve and the spirit of america. it is alive and well. [[page h1845]] this is a challenge for us here in congress to show the same spirit and resolve, to get the job done for the american people. while this bill is far from perfect, it will demonstrate that we can come together and show what we have seen in the days past of what is going on across america. america's best days are still to come, and we continue to be the greatest nation the world has ever known. may god continue to bless our great united states of america. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the distinguished gentleman from texas (mr. green). mr. green of texas. mr. speaker, the american people want to know that their government will be there for them. they want to know that their tax dollars will pay dividends for them. they want to know that we will promote the general welfare as extolled in the preamble to the constitution. they want to know that we will not allow the perfect to become the enemy of the good. this is not a perfect bill. it is a good bill. i will support it. the american people need certainty. they want to know that we will be there for them. {time} 1240 mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from kansas (mr. watkins). mr. watkins. mr. speaker, i rise on behalf of the good people of eastern kansas. the war analogy has been thrown around a lot these days. as a man who has been to war and spent many years there, i can say that is not altogether inaccurate. in both cases, people are frightened. in both cases, people die. in both cases, people discover what it is they are made of. and in war, just like now, people need to come together. this bill is an example of having done just that. it is not perfect, but it is what we have got. it has got my vote. i urge my colleagues to do the same. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from florida (ms. wasserman schultz), a senior member of the house and a cardinal from florida. ms. wasserman schultz. mr. speaker, as a proud floridian, i rise to protect our workers, health professionals, small businesses, and veterans from this grave crisis we face. senate republicans drafted a corporate-friendly bill that failed to meaningfully support the millions who are losing their jobs. instead, democrats secured a package that invests $2 trillion in families, hospitals, and small businesses. workers will get massive investments in unemployment benefits and an added 13 weeks of benefits, which republicans fought to deny. working-class families will get as much as $3,400 for a family of four. small businesses will get help to make payroll, rent, and utility costs. i am proud that the appropriations committee spearheaded nearly $20 billion to ensure veterans' health needs are met, whether at the va or local ers and clinics. appropriators have also worked to ensure our vas can assist our local communities if they reach full capacity. this package is not perfect, and more help will be needed. but our families, small businesses, and hospitals need this help desperately. i ask my colleagues to give them this lifeline against this invisible enemy. we are all in this together. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, our next speaker is the former president of the university of wisconsin, the former president of the university of miami, and the distinguished former secretary of the department of health and human services, one of our most knowledgeable members about issues of families and workers. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from florida (ms. shalala). ms. shalala. mr. speaker, today, we send the cares act to the president to provide the people in my community with needed relief from the devastation of this pandemic. i am here for the first responders, the healthcare workers, and all of those who are risking their lives. they are our heroes. mr. speaker, we need to support this bill now because we must. the virus has left us with no choice. but my hope is that after we have starved this virus, we will make a national commitment to permanently rebuild our public health infrastructure. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i am pleased that our next speaker is another member from south florida. all three of them have spoken now, indicating the importance of the crisis that confronts us. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from florida (ms. mucarsel-powell). ms. mucarsel-powell. mr. speaker, as of this morning, the u.s. has the most covid-19 cases worldwide. over 1,200 have tragically lost their lives. in florida alone, we have over 2,300 cases, with 652 in miami-dade county and 14 in monroe county. south florida is quickly becoming another epicenter of this pandemic. we are watching how numbers for unemployment are skyrocketing, and small businesses are closing. it is a tough reality to face. but we in congress can do something. we can come together, set aside our ideological differences, and help people now. that is why i support this bill. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from iowa (ms. finkenauer). ms. finkenauer. mr. speaker, i rise today on behalf of the great state of iowa where literally, just moments ago, before i got up here to speak, i found out we lost another two iowans to coronavirus, now up to three, all in my congressional district. today, we are grieving losses all over the country and the globe where, tragically, necessary caution came too late. the package we are considering today is not perfect. it will not bring back folks who we lost, but it will give much-needed relief to our hospital systems and workers on the front lines and to our working families and small businesses across the country. god bless the united states of america. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, can i have a time check? the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman from maryland has 5\1/2\ minutes remaining. the gentleman from texas has 6\1/2\ minutes remaining. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from texas (mr. allred). mr. allred. mr. speaker, i want to speak to the people of north texas, many of whom are under stay home, stay safe orders from smart leaders like dallas county judge clay jenkins and dallas mayor eric johnson. i know many of you are frightened. i have heard from many of you who are worried about your family's health, your job, and your business. i want you to know that we are on your side. we are with you. we will not let this great country fail. we will defeat this virus in a way that leaves no one behind. we should follow the examples of our brave first responders. every american owes them a debt of gratitude. but we can best honor their service by staying home, if you can, and following the orders that have been issued. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from ohio (mr. davidson). mr. davidson of ohio. mr. speaker, i do not think anyone is happy about the present situation. but the free market did not close the economy. the governments chose that response to an exceptional risk to public health. the various governments that make up our country need to make sure that individuals, families, and businesses affected by their unprecedented decisions remain solvent and that as many people as possible remain employed. like any war, the enemy votes, too, but the sooner we can get lower risk americans back to work, the safer most people will feel. in our response, we must always defend our values and the way of life that makes america the world's land of opportunity. god bless you all. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from illinois (mr. garcia). [[page h1846]] mr. garcia of illinois. mr. speaker, i rise in support of the cares act, even though it does not protect everyone i wish it would, including all immigrants. however, it represents a bold, unprecedented step in protecting workers and bolstering our healthcare system and in stabilizing our economy, especially our small businesses. that is why i will vote ``aye.'' mr. brady. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from pennsylvania (ms. dean). ms. dean. mr. speaker, the coronavirus pandemic is a reminder of our common humanity and our interconnectedness. i stand today to say montgomery county, pennsylvania, and berks county, pennsylvania, my home district, have been particularly hard hit. there are suffering and courage in my community. we have had three deaths. i rise in support of this cares act. it is unprecedented. it is a monumental bill to send relief and confidence to those who are suffering, to our workers, to our families, to our children, to our business owners. i am proud to support this bill. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. mccarthy), the leader of the republican conference. mr. mccarthy. mr. speaker, i thank you for the job you have done in the chair today. we thank you for the work that you are doing. mr. speaker, before i begin, i want to say to everyone watching us at home right now, we hear your concern; we feel your anxiety; and we know what we need to do. when this year began, americans were enjoying a level of peace and prosperity unheard of in modern times. the economy was at record highs. unemployment for american workers was at record lows. take-home pay was rising, and business closures were falling. our brave men and women in uniform were protecting us from threats across the globe. but a few weeks ago, we learned about an invisible enemy from a distant land, an enemy like we have never faced before. now, the virus is here. we did not invite it. we did not ask for it. we did not choose it. but we will fight it together until we win together. we will win because we have the best of our country on the front lines. we will win because of the other people in uniform: our doctors, our nurses, our lab technicians, and our hospital volunteers. take one moment and imagine where we would be without their fortitude. they have the toughest jobs in the world, but they are truly the best in the world. you, our medical professionals, are our heroes. we, this entire body of the members of congress, salute you. we will always win because of our truck drivers, grocery store clerks, postal workers, farmers, and warehouse workers. you are working night and day. you are making a meaningful, measurable difference in the lives of everyone you serve. you are the foundation of everything we will do today. we will win because of our scientists. their bright minds and faster cures should give every american peace of mind. we are developing a victory vaccine faster than ever in the history of any virus. on behalf of all americans and on behalf of all members of congress, i thank those on the front lines for their professionalism and dedication. another critical front in our war against this virus is the home front, literally. to slow the spread, the government is asking--and in some cases requiring--millions of small businesses and families to put their daily lives on pause and remain at home. i am overjoyed that so many have taken the imperative of social distancing so seriously. flattening the curve is the most important activity any american citizen can do today. it is even more important now that the virus has arrived in full force. we are asking you to continue to remain at home as much as possible. i know this action carries substantial circumstances. we all saw that tragic news just this week. mr. speaker, 3.3 million americans filed for unemployment benefits. we have never experienced that before in our lives, not even in the great depression. what can we do for the hardworking taxpayers, their families, and small businesses, the pillars of the american life that are doing their part but facing economic disaster through no fault of their own? first, we can recognize that their sacrifices are an invaluable service to their fellow citizens. they deserve our eternal gratitude and prayers. second, and more importantly, we can give them our financial support now, today, so they can weather this brutal storm in the weeks ahead. that brings me to the rescue package before us today, the cares act. if developing tests, treatments, and vaccines is america's new arsenal of democracy, the cares act is our modern-day, all-american marshall plan. it is the largest assistance measure in american history, and it is going directly in the pockets of hardworking taxpayers, their families, and small businesses. for everyone affected by this virus, we will be your voice. for those who are battling the virus or who lost your job or who do not know if you will have one a month or 2 from now, i want you to know we are listening; we hear you; and we are working for you. i give leader mcconnell a lot of credit. from the beginning, he was committed to a bottom-up, bipartisan, and bicameral process. he honored his commitment, and it shows. the senate passed this bill by a unanimous vote, every republican, every democrat. it is bold, truly bipartisan, and targeted to achieve the mission at hand. our top priority is to keep americans at work. so we aim the efforts to keep americans employed through two measures. for small businesses and nonprofits, the bill provides 100 percent federally guaranteed loans for 8 weeks. if that loan is used to pay your employees, pay your rent, or pay your utilities, it is no longer a loan. it is a grant because we know what government has asked you to do. other businesses get a retention credit to keep employees on. if, unfortunately, american workers find themselves out of work, this bill offers an additional 13 weeks of unemployment insurance and dramatically expands eligibility. it also makes benefits more generous by adding another $600 per week across-the-board payment increase through the end of july. the cares act also expands unemployment insurance to cover gig workers and self-employed and nonprofit employees. additionally, for american families that might need a little extra support, you will start receiving and seeing those checks in 3 weeks. you will not have to wait for months for financial help. payments will be as much as $1,200 for an individual taxpayer and $500 per child. finally, this legislation provides critical resources to american healthcare workers and hospitals, over $140 billion in appropriations to support our health systems. we do not just talk about our respect for the medical heroes among us. we are going to give them the equipment to save lives and the tools they need to protect themselves. the reason for this legislation is to protect american workers, protect american jobs, and protect hardworking american taxpayers. we are providing targeted, temporary, and timely relief to main street, not wall street. we are not underwriting bad business practices or priming the pump. ultimately, we are laying the foundation for a rapid economic recovery. this bill is not only a rescue package; it is a commitment, a commitment that your government and the people whom you elected to serve will do everything we can to limit the harm and hardship you face, both now and in the foreseeable future. to the american public, if you do your part, i promise we will do ours. mr. speaker, as i said earlier, it is our responsibility to act, to put aside our differences, and to do what is right for the american public. aid must be robust, rapid, and resilient, just like its recipients. we are going to help americans through this. we are going to do this [[page h1847]] together. in the end, we are going to be healthier, stronger, and more united than ever before, because, as americans, that is who we are. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from tennessee (mr. cohen). mr. cohen. mr. speaker, the words above the speaker's head at the top of this chamber are from daniel webster. he says: `` . . . see whether we also in our day and generation may not perform something worthy to be remembered.'' today, we have something worthy before us and something to be remembered. we should all vote ``aye.'' i am here to vote ``aye'' and to encourage the president to use the defense production act for everyone and to continue talking to the president of china because this is a worldwide pandemic. {time} 1300 mr. brady. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield such time as she may consume to the gentlewoman from california (ms. pelosi), the speaker of the house, who has been so critical in putting this piece of legislation together and focusing on workers and families. ms. pelosi. mr. speaker, i thank the distinguished democratic leader, mr. hoyer, for yielding and for the manner in which he has enabled so many of our members to participate in this debate today. i thank him for his leadership on the legislation and also for leading us today. i thank mr. brady for his leadership as well, for facilitating this conversation. i thank the speaker pro tempore for keeping us reasonably on time as much as possible, for congressional members, and for the strength of your authority as speaker pro tempore today. i thank all of our members for their participation on both sides of the aisle, for the seriousness with which we have all taken this important challenge. mr. speaker, last week, his holiness, pope francis said, in his world prayer: ``enlighten those responsible for the common good so that they might know how to care for those entrusted to their responsibility.'' that is his holiness' quote, and that is the responsibility that we all have. today, as we have all acknowledged, our nation faces an economic and health emergency of historic proportions due to the coronavirus pandemic, the worst pandemic in over 100 years. as i proceed with my remarks, i want to say to our colleagues who are watching the proceedings from their chambers in the house to come forward and come to the gallery and listen from here so that, when the time comes, we will be prepared to proceed. the distinguished leader on the republican side, mr. mccarthy, and mr. hoyer have sent a communication to all of you to that effect, that it is very important that you come now. the sooner you come, the shorter my remarks will be. i want to thank the distinguished leader on the republican side for his leadership throughout all of this to achieve bipartisan legislation, and to do so as expeditiously as possible in the house--in the house--so that the message will be clear to the american people that whatever concerns we may have and whatever we want to do next, right now we are going to pass this legislation, and that is because so many american families have been touched by this crisis. more than 82,000 americans so far have fallen sick, a number certain to surge as testing goes forward and which is already the most in the world. we have gone past china and italy. more than 1,200 americans have tragically died. it gives you chills just to think of it. millions of workers are losing their paychecks, including more than, as has been mentioned on both sides of the aisle, 3.2 million americans who filed for unemployment last week alone, a staggering, record- shattering figure. countless healthcare workers, first responders, and others fighting on the front lines in this crisis are at great personal risk. the american people deserve a governmentwide, visionary, evidence- based response to address these threats to their lives and their livelihoods, and they need it now. again, i acknowledge the bipartisanship in which we bring this legislation to the floor. late wednesday night, as the leader acknowledged, the senate unanimously passed legislation which transformed, in our view--since the gentleman acknowledged leader mcconnell, i will acknowledge our distinguished chairman on our side--which transformed a republican, corporate-focused bill into a democratic, workers-first focus. we salute our chairs for working in a bipartisan way and in a bicameral way, across the aisle, across the capitol, and we are able to dramatically expand unemployment insurance and defeated attempts on the senate side to claw back the $600-per-week added benefits that would provide essential relief to the record number of americans losing their jobs. i salute chairmen richie neal and bobby scott for the work that they did on this--i know this is the work of the ways and means committee-- and successfully achieved full direct payments for workers, which is so important, ensuring that working-class american families will be eligible to receive as much as $3,400 for a family of four. i thank, again, mr. neal and madam chair of the financial services committee, maxine waters, who, both of them, had bigger proposals but, nonetheless, advocated for all of this. by the way, i would suggest that, instead of saying it is going to take a few weeks for the checks to get there, that the administration electronically transfer those direct payments immediately. we ensured in the bill that any taxpayer dollars given to industry go, first and foremost, to workers, workers' paychecks and benefits, not used to pay ceo bonuses, stock fund buybacks, or dividends and the rest, and we have secured robust special oversight that will hold the administration accountable for this. i thank the distinguished chair of the and transportation and infrastructure committee, mr. defazio, for his leadership in that regard. i will not try to find all of you because you may be in the gallery as we are encouraging members to come. again, i want to salute congresswoman waters for the work, having the oversight provisions in the bill for the account that is going to be spending money out. we are also proud to have secured a truly historic investment of hundreds of billions of dollars in hospitals, health systems, and state and local governments, ensuring that they have the tools they need to combat the virus. i salute chairman pallone, chairwoman lowey of the appropriations committee, and chairwoman delauro for making so much of all of that possible. when we talk about state and local government, i want to express pride in my own governor gavin newsom, who was on the front line of attacking this, as well as my own mayor breed, who has disciplined us to shelter in place. for small businesses, i thank madam chair velazquez. working in a bipartisan way, we won fast relief for those in need, including by securing $10 billion for sba emergency grants of up to $10,000 and making payroll costs, rent, mortgage interest, and utility costs eligible for sba loan forgiveness. for the first time, we have grants from the sba. thanks to secretary mnuchin, he is facilitating this by not just all of the loans going through the sba, but going through banks with the sba imprimatur, which makes this all go much faster. for our students, we have paused payments for federal student loan borrowers and suspended wage garnishment and negative credit reporting during this time. for that, and for so many other things relating to our students, i thank bobby scott, our chairman of the education and labor committee. you heard earlier, all of these chairmen make these presentations. for our veterans, we secured nearly $20 billion in funding to improve va's readiness with equipment, tests, and additional care as, again, 571 veterans and 185 employees have now tested positive. i thank chairman takano and others on the committee for their leadership. [[page h1848]] for homeowners, renters, the homeless, creditors, and consumers, i thank chairwoman waters for her leadership there. since the beginning of this crisis, we have fought to ensure that our nation's response puts families first as we go through this. so the first two bills that we worked in a bipartisan way on were about addressing the emergency. the first bill was about testing, testing, testing, to ensure that everyone in the country would have access to free testing, among other things. it had in there issues that relate to research for vaccine, research for a cure, but many other things addressing the emergency. in the second bill, which also focused on the emergency, we had masks, masks, masks and many other provisions focused on the emergency, but taking us to this bill today, which is about mitigation. as our distinguished mr. defazio would say, first, we had the emergency, then we had mitigation. it does not mean we are finished with emergency, but it is moving on to mitigating for some of the economic and health damage caused by this pandemic. next, we will move to recovery; and, hopefully, that will be soon, always, though, addressing the emergency and the mitigation needed. how are we coming, mr. leader? how are we coming with our gallery? as we have all said universally, and we say it almost all the time that we come to the floor, no bill is perfect. no bill is perfect. but we want to make sure that it at least comes part of the way to being sufficient. i do think that we should, when we are considering a bill, appreciate what is in the bill rather than judge it for what is not in the bill. but we do know that we must do more. there has been a constant communication among all of our members, i am sure, on both sides of the aisle, when we were at home or here, with doctors, healthcare providers, labor, small businesses, nonprofits, faith groups, and scientists, on the daily needs and developments in our communities. their on-the-ground reports and clear-eyed thinking have been essential to crafting our approach to all of this. so, again, listening to members on both sides of the aisle and the comments here today, as well as the input given in the legislative process, we know that this cannot be our final bill. yet this bill, again, is, i think bobby scott called it, a down payment. we must advance a fourth bill to address the continued needs. for our fight against the coronavirus, our state and local governments will need vastly more support for preventing, preparing for, and responding to the crisis. our hospitals and health systems still need vast infusions of funding so they can treat those in need. we must do more for our healthcare workers. and this has been a current theme on both sides of the aisle, our gratitude for our healthcare workers. they are our heroes. we are thankful and grateful to them. we pray for them, but we need to do more for them than just to say those words. our frontline healthcare workers, whether emergency, our firefighters, our law enforcement, face a dire lack of medical and personal protective equipment, ppe. personal protective equipment, that is the reference. when you see ppe, that is what it is. we must ensure that the president uses the defense production act to its full extent to provide the tools that we need to combat this crisis. our workers are risking their lives on the front lines of this fight and need stronger osha protections to keep them safe. this week, for example--and we probably all have examples. this week, we learned of the tragic death of kious kelly, a nurse manager in new york, who died in the line of duty from coronavirus. he and his fellow nurses risked their lives without protective equipment because the hospital supply simply did not have enough. nurses were given a single plastic protective gown to use for an entire shift when protocol called for a change of gowns between interactions with patients. other nurses were forced to resort to tying bandannas over their faces in place of proper equipment. and still others even began tying plastic garbage bags around disposable scrubs that they were given in place of proper scrubs for extra protection. as mr. kelly's sister said: ``his death could have been prevented. i am angry. he was healthy.'' now our nurses, doctors, healthcare workers, and first responders need action. we have to make sure they know that help is not only on the way, but it is a priority for all of us. these people risk their lives trying to save other people's lives, and then they take home what they interacted with in an infected environment. this is just asking far too much. our families, our workers, our retirees still need more money in their pockets to protect their income security with increased snap. one thing we could not get in the bill was the increase, the 15 percent increase, in food stamps for our children, for our seniors, for those who qualify, bigger direct payments. i hope that we will be in agreement. i know that richie and maxine had the idea of ongoing direct payments. pension protections, we had a protection in the legislation. it was supported by everyone. the president of the united states supported it, but senator mcconnell said he would save it for the next bill, so that is why i am mentioning it for the next bill. and then we need more expanded family medical leave. let me give you an example. come on, my colleagues, to the gallery. let me give you an example. if your parent is sick but had an ongoing caregiver in the home or went to a senior health center on a daily basis and, because of the virus, that caregiver could not come or that health center was closed, you would be able to take family medical leave. however, as in the case of many members here, if your mom or your dad are healthy and they contract the coronavirus, you would not be able to take family and medical leave. what we would like that to say is for those who cannot care for themselves. it just does not make any sense, in my view. so, in any case, we need that, and without exception. and all americans need free coronavirus treatment so they do not have to fear the high cost of a hospital stay. when we said the tests were free, it did not mean that the test is free but your visit to the doctor is not. so, in the days and weeks to come, democrats will continue to advance legislation to meet the urgent needs of all affected by the coronavirus. i keep saying the coronavirus because, in this bill, people say, well, how come we did not do this or that? because this is specific to the coronavirus challenge that we have. i just want to say a word about our children as i close. so many of our children, i want them, if they are paying attention-- distinguished congresswoman brooks mentioned the children. we are so sad for them that they cannot be fully engaged in school as they were. some have access to remote learning and the rest, and this has a deep impact on american life as it affects our children as well. i see that some graduations have been canceled and, hopefully, not so many more if we can get through this. as a mother of five, grandmother of nine, personally, but officially in my leadership role, i have seen hundreds of thousands of graduates, and what is exciting about it, personally and officially, is to see the excitement of the families when their child graduates. when that family happens to have someone on the stage who is the first in the family to graduate, the pride, the joy, the patriotism, all of it is so exuberant. many of them will be deprived of that experience, of seeing that child walk across the stage. so let us try to get this. we have the best minds working 24/7, all hands on deck, to find a cure. let us make sure that we give them the resources they need to do so but, at the same time, that obey the science that says shelter in place or whatever it happens to be. so, as we go forward, let us pray, let us remember what his holiness told us. what he told us was that we have a responsibility for the common good. so let us prepare for all the loved ones who have lost family members and others who are struggling with the illness now. let us pray for our heroic healthcare workers and first responders who are risking their lives to care for the sick every day; the men and [[page h1849]] women in our factories making more medical supplies and personal protective equipment; the farmers, producers, and grocery workers keeping food on the shelves; our truck drivers, postal workers, everybody who is contributing to the effort; and the scientists, as i say, all hands on deck 24/7 for a solution. {time} 1320 congress must show the same courage, the same resilience, and the same strength and with great unity and urgency put families and workers first. let me again thank everyone who had anything to do with this, and that means almost everybody in this room. we thank the senate democrats, leader schumer, and leader mcconnell. let us again return to the words of his holiness, pope francis: may we enlighten those responsible for the common good so that they may know now to care for those entrusted to their responsibility. with that, i hope we have the biggest possible vote for the american people to show them that congress' heart and the country's heart is full of love for the american people. mr. brady. mr. speaker, i have no other speakers, and i yield myself the balance of my time to close. mr. speaker, i thank leader mccarthy for his strong and relentless leadership. i thank him for allowing each of us to bring to the table the pro-growth policies that brought about the strongest economy on the planet as we headed into this challenge. thanks to our house leaders and to our ranking members on all the key committees: representatives granger and foxx, representatives walden, mchenry, cole, and chabot. these are members here today who have engaged in this historic agreement. thanks to the professional teams who have backed us every moment, night and day, in this endeavor. i want to thank our democratic colleagues for working with us on this bipartisan bill and our republican colleagues in the senate. i especially want to thank secretary mnuchin, the point man for president trump on these negotiations, as well as all of the cabinet and the white house economic team. i especially want to thank president trump for his strong and results-oriented leadership at a time of unprecedented crisis for this great country. in times of challenge, i lean on this proverb: fear knocked. faith answered. no one was there. coronavirus has knocked at america's door and with it fear. faith is answering. we answer with faith in ourselves and our abilities, faith in our free enterprise system, faith in our amazing healthcare system, and, yes, faith that when the chips are down, congress can come together with our president to help hardworking families and businesses when they need it most. we answer that door at this crucial moment with faith in our creator and faith in our great american spirit. this is the challenge of a lifetime, but if we keep pulling together and if we pass this bill today without delay, then we take another step toward that day when we answer the door and fear is no longer there. mr. speaker, on behalf of president trump and the republican congress, we urge support for this bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time to close. as has been said so many times on this floor, america has faced many threats, some in the nature of attack by enemies and some in the nature of natural disasters, whether they be hurricanes or tornadoes or floods. americans have responded and overcome those threats. we now have a threat, as some have mentioned, that is unseen but has a great effect and is having a great effect today as we debate this bill in america. today we will vote not as democrats or republicans but we will vote as americans who have been sent here to represent our country and our people to promote the general welfare. certainly the general welfare has been put at risk by this virus. we have in a very short time passed three major pieces of legislation, two that generated in this house and one that generated in the senate. we will pass this bill today. i want to thank the majority leader--excuse me--the minority leader. i am the majority leader. mr. mccarthy. i will take it back. mr. hoyer. you cannot have it. while we enjoy a little levity, we understand the gravity of this situation. people will die today as a result of this virus. we have come together as democrats and republicans from every region of this country to respond in a way sufficient for the challenge, and we know we will need to do more. but this day let us hope that like the united states senate we come together each and every one of us not for partisan advantage but for the advantage and defense of our people. america has been blessed by god and by our people. let us respond this hour to their need in their defense so that america will go forward stronger, better, and more ready to face future challenges. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i rise to clarify a provision in the bill we passed this morning, the cares act, that provides relief to states. with state revenues decreasing at the same time that demand for services is rising, there has been broad agreement in the house that something needs to be done to help states cope with funding shortfalls. our legislation creates a coronavirus relief fund to provide additional resources to states, local governments, and tribes to address costs incurred responding to the coronavirus pandemic. i am pleased that the final legislative language gives states broad flexibility in how they spend the money they will receive. some state leaders have expressed concern that a provision requiring that funds be spent only on newly identified needs could prevent states from using this new funding for legitimate needs relating to the current public health emergency just because the state's regular budget addresses similar spending needs. that is not the intent of the language in our bill. to be clear, we intended for the language to give states, localities, and tribes broad flexibility to address needs arising from the coronavirus pandemic, regardless of whether the need arises directly from new spending related to the outbreak or indirectly as a result of collapsing state revenues, as businesses shut down to support social distancing and protect public health. i am encouraged that the treasury department has indicated that it appreciates the importance of providing this funding to states quickly, flexibly, and with a minimum of paperwork. it is critically important that the federal government give states the tools they need simultaneously to address the public health crisis as well as the economic damage it is causing. in this same vein, i would be remiss if i did not, once again, express my profound disappointment that this provision treats the district of columbia as a territory rather than a state. this misguided decision by the senate will shortchange the district by hundreds of millions of dollars, hurting the national capital region's coordinated effort to fight the coronavirus. i am committed to fixing this issue in whatever legislation we consider next to address the coronavirus. ms. kaptur. mr. speaker, at this historic moment for our beloved nation, we come together to pass the largest federal boost to our economy in modem history. this package is ``for our people.'' it will save lives and our economy. let me begin with a heartfelt thank you to our first responders, medical workers, grocery store workers, field hands and migrant workers, municipal employees, drug store and pharmacy employees, food bank volunteers, truck drivers and delivery workers, and the us army corps of engineers, national guard personnel, and non-profit samaritans and volunteers of every persuasion helping across america. each of your tireless efforts and dedication make this nation stronger. our country is under attack by an invisible foe. we have not experienced a threat of this magnitude since pearl harbor when our nation found itself quite ill-prepared to meet foreign foes. today, we vote on a $2.3 trillion response package that recognizes the medical and economic horrors confronting the american people. this legislation provides assurance and support to those who need healing and a bridge toward a more secure future. to america's medical frontline, our families, workers, seniors, and small businesses, we have heard your pleas for rescue. today we provide a lifeline. because of democratic efforts, huge investments in hospitals, health systems and state and local government will receive the resources they desperately need to meet this pandemic. democratic efforts won significant increases in unemployment insurance benefits to match average paychecks of laid-off or furloughed workers, and direct cash payments to millions. democratic pressure led to significant expansion of fast relief for small businesses and [[page h1850]] made rent, mortgages, and utility costs eligible for sba loan forgiveness. because of democratic leadership, students will have billions for emergency education funding and student loans will not bear income tax on repayment assistance provided by an employer. and most importantly, spending of the taxpayer dollars will be held accountable with oversight, preventing secret bailouts to the wealthiest friends of this administration. this legislation is bold. but is not an immediate cure all. more action is required soon. this global pandemic exposed the reality the heartland of our nation has known for decades. we cannot rely on foreign manufacturing for vital, daily essentials, surely medical supplies. it is overtime for this administration to bring the full force of the defense production act online, but more importantly to then partner with congress to rebuild america's security through domestic manufacturing. too many americans have already lost their lives in this crisis because of missed warnings, ignored alarms, and disregard for our industrial base and vital medical supply lines. with congress next turning to a legislative solution to provide robust economic recovery, we cannot ignore the elephant in the room. we must do everything to rebuild our strategic medical stockpile through american manufacturing ingenuity. american lives are at stake now and in the future. we make america great again by healing her people and rebuilding her domestic medical production. i fully support today's response package and urge all my colleagues to do so. ms. waters. mr. speaker, it is absolutely critical for congress to take action to provide relief and assistance to the millions of people across the nation who are struggling in the midst of this national public health and economic emergency. i rise today to support the senate amendment to h.r. 748, now referred to as the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act or cares act, and to address several key issues. the legislation before us takes important steps to support consumers, renters, homeowners and people experiencing homelessness, to address the shortage of key medical supplies and equipment, to assist small businesses and local, territory and state governments, and to ensure that any federal aid to corporations has conditions and independent oversight. while it is clear that congress must continue to take action to respond to and address this crisis, the passage of this bill is much needed for families and communities in the united states. the first draft of the senate republican bill failed to include important relief for consumers, homeowners, renters, and people experiencing homelessness. thankfully, after i, and other democrats spoke out about the lack of homeless assistance in the first package for coronavirus relief, this bill now includes $4 billion for homeless assistance. there are over half a million people experiencing homelessness in america and the limited accommodation they have access to is often in emergency shelter facilities that have several beds in a single room. these cramped facilities are prime conditions for the spread of a virus, and people experiencing homelessness are also more vulnerable in that they often have limited access to health care services. congress expects that the department of housing and urban development (hud) will prioritize this vulnerable population in delivering assistance. this bill also includes a temporary moratorium on eviction filings for renters who are living in properties with federal backing or subsidies, as well as targeted rent relief for federally assisted renters. i continue to have concerns about other renters, particularly lower income renters who will not benefit from these provisions. the house bill, h.r. 6379, the take responsibility for workers and families act, provided a $100 billion emergency rental assistance fund to help renters in paying their rent and utilities. congress needs provide such assistance in a future package. homeowners with federally backed loans will also get relief under this bill through a foreclosure moratorium and mortgage forbearance. multifamily rental property owners with federally backed mortgages will also receive forbearance. i continue to have concerns about homeowners and rental property owners with mortgages that do not have federal backing and therefore will be excluded from this relief. i am also concerned that the bill provides no funding for rural housing programs. congress expects financial institutions, mortgage servicers, and landlords to ensure they are in compliance with the law and promptly provide clear and accessible notices to tenants and homeowners about their eligibility for relief under the law. while mortgage servicers have expressed concerns that they will not be eligible to access a federal reserve facility to ensure that businesses have access to financing, i believe that h.r. 748 is clear that mortgage servicers, like other businesses, are eligible for this financing. indeed, the federal reserve already has sufficient authority to create a facility to ensure that mortgage servicers have liquidity. h.r. 748 builds on those authorities to ensure the federal reserve is responsive to this crisis and its actions complement other provisions in the bill, so congress expects the fed will act promptly to establish and implement this facility. congress also expects that the secretaries of treasury and hud, as well as the director of the federal housing finance agency will use their robust authorities provided in the legislation and current law to ensure that the time periods allotted for foreclosure moratorium and forbearance are long enough to provide sufficient relief. we do not want homeowners to be forced to resume making payments when the worst economic impacts of the crisis have yet to subside. this bill also includes $4 billion in community development block grant funding to provide states and localities with flexible funding to address various community needs associated with covid-19, including the provision of mobile health clinics. there is also $10 million to ensure that elderly households living in hud-assisted housing have access to service coordinators and $2.5 million for fair housing enforcement and education. congress has seen that in the aftermath of disasters, federal relief funding has often been spent in ways that discriminate against minorities and other protected classes of people. these additional funds are provided to focus the federal response on ensuring that the funding in this bill is spent in ways that are not discriminatory. democrats pushed to ensure the bill helps struggling student loan borrowers. the final bill pauses payments and suspends debt collection on most federal student loans until september 30th. it prohibits garnishment, tax seizure, benefits reduction, and interest accrual on most federal student loans, allowing borrowers to remain current for credit reporting and loan forgiveness program purposes. however, the bill does not provide similar relief for private student loan borrowers. it also does not provide any forgiveness of student loan debt. h.r. 6379 provided payment relief, debt forgiveness, and student loan forgiveness for federal and private student loan borrowers. debt forgiveness and parity for private student loan borrowers should be addressed in any subsequent bill. i also believe we need to ensure that all americans have access to the medical supplies they need. the bill includes $1,000,000,000 in additional funding for the defense production act (dpa). the dpa provides emergency authority to prioritize contracts for essential materials, allocate scarce items to key industries, and provide incentives to companies to change production lines to provide items that are in need. in times of crisis, this authority ensures that u.s. production fulfills the crucial needs of the moment. we are in such a crisis where this authority is needed. there are countless reports of shortages of personal protection equipment, such as masks and gowns, and other life-saving items, such as ventilators. as we begin to ramp up critical diagnostic testing for larger and larger parts of our population, our medical personnel are facing shortages of this critical equipment. without additional supplies, we cannot safely protect our frontline medical professionals so that they can administer the very tests that can make a key difference in combatting this deadly virus. congress is providing the increase of funding to carry out the defense production act with the understanding that these funds are to be used to help expand our domestic productive capacity for critically needed medical supplies or equipment, to purchase such supplies or equipment where necessary and to address other needs that directly relate to meeting the emergency medical needs arising directly from the covid-19 pandemic. the administration should use the funding provided in the bill to increase domestic productive capacity for such supplies and equipment by, for example, expanding a company's manufacturing capability through the purchase, retrofit, or installation of equipment; developing a producer's ability to be able to surge production as needed; making purchasing agreements to ensure that a company's manufacturing capacity will be economically sustainable; and/ or making various financial instruments available (such as direct investments, loans, and loan guarantees) to enable any of these uses. if there are other critical needs that come out of this crisis where dpa funding would be necessary, the committee on financial services, which has jurisdiction over this authority, should be consulted prior entering into any commitment to grants, loans, or purchases using this funding. as the chairwoman of the committee with jurisdiction over the defense production act, i will be reviewing both fema and hhs's efforts to use the authorities of the defense production act, and i will be closely examining how this new $1,000,000,000 is going to be used to ensure the health and safety of people living in the united states. states, territories, and municipalities are on the frontlines of responding to this pandemic. hospitals are already experiencing severe supply shortages, and there are not enough [[page h1851]] hospital beds or health care workers to get patients suffering from this virus what they need. it is absolutely critical that we support our local governments as they respond to the crisis and other unanticipated expenses--especially in the face of sharply rising interest rates on municipal bonds and declining local government sales tax revenue. in addition to $150 billion in grants to states and cities in this bill, h.r. 748 authorizes the treasury department to provide financing to a federal reserve facility that would support states and municipal government financing, including through the purchase of longer dated maturity bonds. the bill also instructs the treasury secretary to endeavor to lend through the federal reserve's facility to states and cities to help them meet the huge needs they will see in the months ahead. given how urgent the needs are, congress expects this program to be stood up quickly, and for the support that it provides for state and local borrowing to be robust, including through the direct purchase of new debt issuances and long-dated municipal securities. the small businesses in this country form the backbone of our nation's economy. this bill provides major funding to ensure small businesses are able to continue to serve their local communities during these difficult times. the final bill includes loan forgiveness to small businesses for expenses related to utilities, rent, interest on mortgages, and payroll, which should help struggling small businesses will have access to funds to cover their immediate costs. there are also funds available that treasury and the federal reserve can and should immediately deploy to support small businesses, and we will be examining closely how these provisions are implemented. the financial crisis of 2008 left millions of americans stretched financially, especially women, minorities, and diverse-owned businesses. unfortunately, many of them are still recovering from the last crisis and will be vulnerable to any negative impacts as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. i am pleased that this legislation includes $10 million for the minority business development administration. mbda will be able to direct funding to its minority business development centers, which provide local support directly to minority businesses within the communities they serve. these funds should be quickly deployed. congress should be mindful that $10 million is only a down payment, and more funding is needed for grants and other assistance to provide access to capital for minority businesses to ensure they do not continue to be left out and further behind. community banks and credit unions are playing a vital role as we endure and eventually move past this pandemic. this bill reauthorizes the transaction account guarantee (tag) program, a successful financial crisis era program established to maintain confidence in our nation's banking system, including minority depository institutions (mdis), community banks, and credit unions. the bill gives the federal deposit insurance corporation (fdic) and the national credit union administration (ncua) authority to guarantee that noninterest-bearing customer accounts, along with the debt owned by depository institutions is covered even beyond the current $250,000 limit. fortunately, there are a few limited deregulatory proposals included in the bill. deregulation is not the answer to this crisis. congress will be overseeing the financial regulators in the weeks and months to come to ensure that they do not advance harmful rollbacks that will harm consumers during this time of national crisis. financial regulators should focus all of their energy on the current crisis. they should immediately suspend any rulemaking or other efforts that have nothing to do with this crisis. the $500 billion congress is authorizing for the treasury department and the federal reserve to prudently extend emergency assistance directly and indirectly to corporations, non-profits, states, territories, and municipalities in this turbulent moment for our economy must be used to protect workers, families, and the national economy. these funds should not be used to line the pockets of corporate executives or arrange for a taxpayer-funded slush fund that enriches president trump or his family. that is why this bill expressly prohibits the president, members of the president's cabinet, and members of congress and their families from receiving any of these funds. the bill also expressly limits executive compensation and bonuses for corporations receiving assistance, and requires certain businesses receiving aid to uphold their collective bargaining agreements, maintain their workforce to at least 90 percent of what it was before the pandemic, and preserve worker pay and benefits. furthermore, the bill prohibits companies receiving federal aid from engaging in stock buybacks and issuing dividends until taxpayers are fully paid back. however, the bill allows the treasury secretary to waive some of these conditions if the secretary deems it in the federal government's interests. this waiver is overly broad and thus should only be used in only the most exceptional cases. the bill requires the secretary to make himself available to testify before the house financial services committee if he decides to exercise this waiver authority. companies should not ask for waivers simply because they are available. it is the expectation of congress that every business receiving government assistance fully complies with all of the aforementioned conditions. there is no reason that a business receiving taxpayer aid should focus on anything other than supporting and retaining its workforce. furthermore, a business receiving taxpayer funds should not be engaging in stock buybacks or issuing dividends, and its ceo should go beyond the bill's conditions and restrain excessive compensation practices. furthermore, the final bill includes a number of oversight and transparency measures to ensure the program is administered fairly and that the use of these emergency funds truly helps workers and all communities. specifically, the bill requires public reporting of transactions in plain language on treasury's website within 72 hours. the bill also requires weekly and monthly reports by treasury to congress summarizing new transactions and outstanding obligations. the federal reserve must, similar to reporting requirements for emergency lending mandated in the doddfrank wall street reform and consumer protection act, also submit weekly and monthly reports to congress on any new facility they stand up as well as outstanding loans or financial assistance provided by the fed. the secretary of the treasury and the chairman of the board of governors of the federal reserve system will be required to testify before the house financial services committee every single quarter regarding how the treasury department and the federal reserve system are implementing the law. moreover, the bill creates a special inspector general for pandemic recovery to combat waste, fraud and abuse and scrutinize every dollar spent in the administration of this $500 billion treasury program. therefore, the secretary must prioritize the establishment of this inspector general and have it open its doors as soon as possible. the senate should confirm a qualified nominee for inspector general quickly. because the bill does not use an existing inspector general, such as the special inspector general for tarp in h.r. 6379, there will be little executive branch oversight of these funds until the ig is up and running. lastly, the bill creates a congressional oversight commission, authorized to hold hearings, gather evidence, and publish monthly reports until 2025. the bill also authorizes the government accountability office to provide an annual oversight report to congress. additionally, the bill creates a pandemic response accountability committee within the council of the inspectors general on integrity and efficiency to ensure government-wide oversight through a number of inspectors general to scrutinize the use of all federal funds intended to address the coronavirus pandemic. since taxpayers are footing the bill, all americans deserve to examine any and all information related to the administration, disbursement and utilization of these funds. therefore, i fully expect treasury and the federal reserve to comply with the bill's transparency requirements and fully cooperate with these oversight entities, as well as the oversight conducted by congress, including the committee on financial services. furthermore, i expect the oversight authorities established by the bill to immediately make congress aware of any potential misuse of funds, conflicts of interest, or criminal or civil violations and refer any such matters, as appropriate, to the department of justice. i am pleased that this legislation includes important provisions that democrats fought for to support individuals, families, workers, small business and communities, and support the bill's passage. but, the legislation is far from sufficient to fully support our nation through this crisis. and so, i will be voting ``yes'' on the bill, and urge my colleagues to immediately begin working on additional legislation to help american families to endure and overcome this pandemic. mr. aderholt. mr. speaker, while this bill is not perfect--few bills are--the bill before us today is a good bill and we are quite frankly in the midst of perhaps our greatest health care crisis since the flu pandemic of 1918, the year my grandmother was born in rural alabama. because of the crisis, we have a responsibility to take action. our president, donald trump, has shaped one of the most successful economic periods in our memory. i admire and support his ongoing vision of creating and maintaining jobs in the united states. unfortunately, this virus which we are currently dealing with has a very high rate of transmission, often before the carrier is symptomatic. this is why the president and our healthcare experts have encouraged people to stay home, meaning that the very activities [[page h1852]] crucial to thriving business activity have temporarily been put on hold in order to stop the spread of the virus. experts in both the public and private sectors are working almost around the clock to produce the therapies and medical devices we need, and also on an eventual vaccine. in the meantime, we must help american workers and businesses who, through no fault of their own, simply cannot work due to circumstances and in some cases due to having the virus itself. this bill has been in the spotlight at every point in its negotiations. again, while this bill is not perfect, it accomplishes a number of things i support. here are just a few. rural hospitals serve our constituents who cannot travel to large hospitals, and, indeed, are being asked not to travel at all. the $100 billion emergency fund is necessary to prevent the imminent shutdowns of these small rural hospitals such as in my hometown of haleyville which were already operating on a razor's edge margin. this bill also includes assistance for our rural health clinics and federally qualified health centers to provide telehealth services during this crisis. likewise, we need for every person, every student, to have access to broadband internet service. during the course of negotiations on this bill, i repeatedly warned that rural americans without access to high-speed internet are being left behind as americans are asked to work from home, take classes online, and utilize telehealth services to combat the spread of the coronavirus. after working alongside colleagues on both sides of the aisle, and also our ranking member of the appropriations committee kay granger of texas, i am pleased to see that this bill contains $340 million for rural broadband deployment, distance learning, and telehealth for rural areas. this is a step in the right direction toward getting rural americans the help that they need during the coronavirus emergency. i applaud the president for his desire to send each family a check to help them in this time of need. likewise, when they spend that money, that act will help sustain our economy. i believe that we will get through this crisis. and when we do, it will be the economy, the workers and families of this great nation who provide the lasting economic recovery we all look forward to. in the meantime, this bill has provisions to preserve our travel industry, our contractors working on the artemis mission to take the first woman astronaut to the moon, as well as scientists who monitor dangerous weather at noaa. i want to thank the tremendous leadership of ranking member granger on those efforts, as well as our house leadership, especially my friend and colleague minority whip scalise, and senator wicker, as well as representatives posey, palazzo, and many others on both sides of the aisle as we move forward. i understand the concerns of many members and senators about how the unemployment provisions work, but i believe that when this crisis passes, our economy will come roaring back. i want to continue to work with my colleagues on possible corrections and possibly another bill this spring. i want to thank our farmers, food processors, and truckers who continue during these difficult times to provide the most basic need: food. also, our hospitals and healthcare workers--the doctors, nurses, nps, pas, crnas, lab workers, technicians, and all the other staff who make our hospitals work--around the country are on the front lines of fighting this virus and we are so grateful for their sacrifice to take care of our citizens. again, i sincerely believe that we will get through this crisis. our country is stronger than this virus. this bill is just one example of how we can come together to find solutions. my prayers are with our families and all families across america as well as with all of our nation's officials, from local government to the white house. i appreciate the feedback from everyone back home, and i hope to continue to do what i can to work on their behalf of all of those i represent. ms. delauro. mr. speaker, with state revenues collapsing at the same time demand for services is skyrocketing, we have had broad agreement that something needs to be done to help the states. although some might have preferred to increase the federal matching rate for medicaid, this legislation goes a different route with a fiscal relief fund for state and local governments. in any case, the key is to help states plug the enormous fiscal gaps they are currently facing. i am pleased that the final legislative language, unlike some earlier proposals that we rejected, gives states broad flexibility in how they spend the money they will receive. at this point, it has become impossible to separate the effects on state budgets of rising demands for services and shortfalls in revenues. states cannot spend the money on new projects unrelated to the public health emergency and its economic fallout. i doubt any state would have done that anyway, but the legislation clearly says that they cannot. beyond that, we trust states' discretion about what expenditures are necessary in light of the current crisis. we also know that states planned many expenditures assuming revenues that they are no longer receiving. an activity without the revenue to support it is not accounted for in the state's budget. states should understand that they can apply this money to prevent the cuts that would devastate their necessary functions that they can no longer cover from their general funds because of the loss of sales and income tax revenues. we are assured that the treasury department appreciates the importance of getting this money out to states quickly, flexibly and with a bare minimum of paperwork. i include in the record the following washington post article, ``states and cities should brace themselves for a downward spiral,'' written by catherine rampell and published yesterday, march 26, 2020. states are facing huge shortages--and not just of ventilators, masks and health-care personnel. they are about to confront enormous budget shortages, too. this is the sleeper issue of the current economic crisis, and aiding states now could well be the difference between a brief recession and a prolonged depression. particularly in ailing regions of the united states that still have not recovered from the last recession. the bill the senate passed wednesday would give state and local governments $150 billion to help plug budget holes. it also includes $31 billion for local schools and colleges. that money is definitely welcome. but it will be nowhere near sufficient to prevent cascading state and local government layoffs and cuts to critical public services that otherwise lie ahead. for context: states suffered a cumulative $600 billion revenue shortfall in the first five years after the great recession hit. and there are ample reasons to believe the fiscal crunch could be worse this time around. many states entered this dual public health and economic emergency in poor budgetary shape, with too little in their ``rainy day'' funds to handle this noah-style deluge. as of late last year, only about half the states had the funds they need to weather even a moderate recession, according to moody's analytics. seemingly every state will take a huge hit, for different reasons. those whose economies are especially dependent on tourism (florida, nevada), energy (texas, oklahoma) and other hard-hit sectors are in trouble. as are those dependent on capital gains revenue (new york, california), given stock market declines. high-fixed-cost public transit systems everywhere will suffer as they lose rider revenue. and so on. among the biggest problems are the expected declines in sales tax collections, which make up about a third of state revenue. with millions of retail stores, restaurants and other businesses shuttered, sales on which those taxes are based have stopped. even the early-pandemic panic-buying is unlikely to help, because groceries, medications and other necessities are often exempt from sales taxes. taking a cue from the feds, many states have delayed their deadlines for filing 2019 income taxes, too, meaning they will not be able to count on an april bump. tax money that would normally be withheld from people's paychecks this year will also be depressed while people are out of work, suggesting revenue shortfalls will continue for a while. depending on how long layoffs last, they could eventually start to depress property values, too--and thus the property taxes that disproportionately pay for schools and local services. which suggests there could be reverberating fiscal effects for years after this pandemic ends. that is just one side of the ledger. meanwhile, states' expenses are spiking, too. this always happens during recessions, as people seek a safety net when their income falls. but the particular cause of this recession--a public health emergency--means there will be even more demand for public services than usual. already, unemployment insurance claims are off the charts, with initial claims filed last week reaching an all-time high of 3.3 million. (the past record was 695,000, in 1982.) that figure probably understates the severity of the need, because government unemployment websites have crashed. the aid package passed the senate wednesday would top off what states will offer workers seeking unemployment benefits, and extend benefits to new categories of workers, but states will still be on the hook for huge obligations. medicaid enrollment also usually rises during a downturn, as jobless people lose their private insurance and reduced earnings make people newly eligible for benefits. but given that this downturn was caused by a pandemic, we should expect that more people than usual will seek public insurance, and that the spending per enrollee will be higher than normal. in its ``phase two'' bill, congress temporarily increased the share of medicaid costs borne by the federal government-- but not by nearly as much as is needed, and not even by as much as it did in response to the great recession. which is a shame, given that medicaid is such a useful vehicle for distributing federal funds to states even when there is not a public health emergency. [[page h1853]] the fastest, most efficient way to get money out to the states is through medicaid, because there is a whole mechanism already that allows for that all in place,'' said scott pattison, former executive director of both the national governors association and the national association of state budget officers. unlike the federal government, most state and local governments are legally required to balance their budgets. without more federal help, states and cities should not expect a swift snapback from this crisis. instead, they should brace for a downward spiral--of service cuts, deteriorating conditions for households and businesses, and depressed economic conditions for years to come. mrs. carolyn b. maloney of new york. mr. speaker, my home is again an epicenter for a national disaster. today, new york city is the frontline of the war against the spread of coronavirus; the united states now has the most confirmed covid-19 cases in the world, and new york city has, by far, the most cases in the united states, reaching more than 23,000 as of this morning. new yorkers are facing this crisis with strength and optimism and we, as we have so often, are providing a model for the other cities and states that will confront similar challenges in the days and weeks to come. my constituents always come first. if i thought that i could help them at this time by breaking every bit of expert medical guidance on containing the coronavirus, then i would travel to the capitol in a heartbeat. but with the outcome assured, i can best serve my constituents and new york by following best practices and staying here, facing down this crisis with the strength for which new yorkers are justly known. had i been present, i would have voted to pass this emergency relief legislation to get immediate help to our hospitals, small businesses, and individual americans. let me be clear: this is disaster relief to address the immediate crisis in front of us; there is much more that needs to be done to help restart the economy, and we will be turning our efforts to that as soon as this $2 trillion relief package is signed into law. this bill is not perfect, but it is essential that we act now. with this bill, more than $40 billion will flow to new york--not just for the state and city but directly to our hospitals and healthcare workers and small businesses, particularly for employee retention. there will also be direct payments to individuals and significantly more resources for those who have lost their job because of this crisis. this bill includes important wins for progressive policy proposals that democrats fought for, including: a large investment in hospitals, our health system, and state and local governments to give them the resources they need during this emergency; a massive increase in unemployment insurance benefits so that these benefits match the average paycheck of laid-off and furloughed workers; a significant expansion of fast relief for small businesses, including making rent, mortgages, and utility costs eligible for small business administration (sba) loan forgiveness; billions of dollars for emergency education funding and the elimination of income tax on student loan repayment assistance by an employer; and accountability and oversight by preventing secret bailouts and adding special oversight requirements. importantly for new yorkers, this expansion of unemployment insurance covers all workers, whether they work for small or larger business, are self-employed, or work in the gig economy. of the $260 billion dedicated for this proposal, $15 billion is projected to come home to new york. additionally, a relief fund for state and local governments is projected to send at least $5.8 billion to new york state and more than $1.4 billion to new york city. this legislation puts workers first by banning stock buybacks and limiting executive compensation for the duration that a company is receiving government assistance plus one year for any company that receives a government loan from this bill. it also establishes robust worker protections attached to most federal loans for businesses. there will be real-time public reporting of any transactions by the treasury department under this bill, including terms of loans, investments, and other assistance to corporations. democrats also added a retention tax credit for employers to encourage all businesses to keep workers on the payroll during this crisis and removed the ``secret bailout'' provision of the initial republican proposal that would have allowed bailouts to be concealed for 6 months. as chair of the committee on oversight and reform, i am proud that the committee will be at the forefront of fulfilling congress' vitally important constitutional responsibility to conduct oversight of the distribution of funds to corporations under this legislation. the bill includes important provisions to ensure that taxpayer dollars are used effectively and efficiently, including dedicated funding and enhanced authorities for inspectors general and the independent government accountability office to fight waste, fraud, and abuse in the government spending that will happen under this bill. the bill includes several provisions that i, along with my counterpart in the senate, senator gary peters, offered. among the provisions we are adopting today are, as follows: pandemic response accountability committee: the pandemic response accountability committee will be made up of independent inspectors general who will conduct and coordinate audits and investigations to provide accountability and identify waste, fraud, and abuse in spending under the act and the response to the coronavirus crisis. this provision will help ensure that inspectors general have the authorities and funding necessary to conduct oversight, including access to documents and testimony from government officials and private sector entities. the bill requires extensive public reporting through oversight.gov on what the inspectors general find during their oversight, and it requires agencies to report information about spending under the bill. $20 million for government accountability office: the bill allocates $20 million to enable the independent government accountability office (gao) to help congress conduct oversight of the spending under this bill and other efforts to respond to the crisis. the bill provides gao with the ability to conduct oversight and inspections of private entities receiving funding under the bill to protect against fraud. the bill also includes several other oversight initiatives including: special inspector general for pandemic recovery: the bill establishes a special inspector general to conduct oversight over stimulus spending by the department of the treasury. the bill requires the special inspector general to track all loans, loan guarantees, and other obligations and expenditures made by the treasury department under the bill. the bill provides $25 million for the special inspector general and authorizes the position for five years. congressional oversight commission: the bill includes the establishment of a congressional oversight commission to oversee stimulus spending by the department of treasury and the board of governors of the federal reserve. the commission will be tasked with evaluating issues such as the impact of loans, loan guarantees, and investments made under the bill on the united states people, economy, financial markets, and financial institutions. the commission will be required to submit reports to congress every 30 days. finally, the bill includes mechanisms to prevent the airline industry from using taxpayer funds for purposes congress never intended, as the industry did after 9/11. to prevent a repeat of these abuses, the house and senate worked together to establish clear requirements for expectations and accountability, including: required assurances from air carriers: the bill requires air carriers to agree to certain conditions in order to accept loans or loan guarantees from the secretary of the treasury. these conditions impose limitations on the ability of air carriers to buy back stocks, pay dividends to shareholders, layoff or furlough employees, and increase executive pay. in closing, i want to offer my deepest appreciation to the democratic negotiating team, led by our peerless speaker and minority leader schumer, which so dramatically improved the legislation from the original bill that senate republicans initially tried to pass. the achievement of this legislation is not the speed with which it was assembled, but the breadth of its vision to focus on direct assistance to individuals and conditioning so much of the aid to companies on keeping our friends and neighbors employed. getting through this moment in history will be eased for many because of the hard-won provisions of this legislation achieved by the democrats. ms. granger. mr. speaker, our nation is facing an unprecedented pandemic, and i am proud that congress has come together again to provide desperately needed resources and relief to the american people. the ``coronavirus aid, relief and economic security (cares) act'' is the third emergency relief bill to provide assistance to millions of americans, especially for our healthcare workers, first responders, small businesses, and individuals who are unable to work because of this outbreak. eighty percent of the $340 billion in emergency funding included in the bill goes directly to state and local governments, supporting their frontline efforts to respond to the virus. more than $125 billion will be used to support our hospitals and purchase medical supplies likes gloves, face masks, and gowns and equipment like ventilators and respirators that our healthcare heroes desperately need. the bill also provides small businesses with the capital to sustain operations and payroll, preserving the jobs of millions and ensuring that those job creators can reopen immediately once the virus passes. our around-the-clock efforts to negotiate this bill paid off--we have reached a historic bipartisan, bicameral agreement. while there [[page h1854]] are some things in this bill that i wish were addressed differently, the bill will do what is intended: support the american people, lessen the impact of the virus, and jumpstart our economy. as many of you know, tarrant country has a ``stay-at-home'' order currently in effect, and due to that order and travel concerns, i disappointingly will not be in d.c. to cast my vote in person today. nevertheless, relief is on its way to the american people. as we continue to fight this invisible enemy, it is vitally important that we remain in it together, follow the recommendations of the president, his task force, and our state and local leaders, and support those that need assistance during this time. the health and safety of our community relies on our partnership. as the situation progresses, i will continue to work with president trump, governor abbott, and local leaders to keep our friends and family safe and ensure we win against this pandemic. mr. cartwright. mr. speaker, i deeply regret that i was unable to be present at today's vote, and so submit this statement in order to officially express my support for the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security (cares) act. had i not been under physician orders to self-quarantine, after coming into contact with an individual who tested positive for covid-19, i would have proudly cast my vote in favor of this legislation. from the very start of this unprecedented public health and economic emergency, my number-one priority has been to put relief for our nation's workers, families, and seniors first. after intense negotiation, this historic $2 trillion stimulus now takes a monumental step in that direction. as the coronavirus continues to gain a foothold in the united states, workers face increasing uncertainty. last week, the number of unemployment claims filed reached a record high, and those numbers are expected to only grow. the legislation that the house passed today offers much needed stability and peace of mind for american workers, by dramatically expanding our unemployment insurance program. as a result, jobless workers will see an increase of $600 per week in their unemployment benefits for a period of four months, as well as an extension of regular unemployment benefits by 13 weeks. moreover, for the first time in history, independent contractors, gig workers, and self-employed individuals will be universally eligible to collect unemployment benefits. as with our public health response, congress recognizes the centrality of prevention to our nation's economic response. blunting the impact of this pandemic and necessary social distancing on workers will require not only that we strengthen the social safety net, but that we also provide robust assistance to america's economic backbone: small businesses. over the past week, democrats have fiercely negotiated for enhanced relief for small businesses, and in the end we were able to secure $377 billion in funding. these loans and grants will help small businesses continue to make payroll and rent payments, and ultimately, keep workers employed. from day one, we have understood that limiting economic fallout from coronavirus requires a multi-pronged approach. the direct payments, under this bill, will quickly inject cash into the pockets of american workers, families, and seniors, so that they can continue to make ends meet. while i would have liked to have seen even more generous payments go to our low- and middle-income americans, i am nevertheless pleased with this start. finally, i am extremely grateful that democrats and republicans were able to come together to direct more than $150 billion to our hospitals and health care system. anything less would have been shortsighted, and would have represented a grave failing on congress's part. now, hospitals will have the resources needed to increase surge capacity. in addition, these funds will go towards supporting covid-19 medical research and providing frontline health care workers with personal protective equipment, ventilators, and other critically-needed medical supplies. if we hope to slow the spread of this virus, save american lives--including those of our heroic frontline health care workers--and help restore normalcy to our lives and economy, we must equip our health care system with the resources it needs to operate effectively. over the coming months, it will be imperative that congress continues to invest in the health care infrastructure. like any compromise, this bill is far from perfect. still, the investments that the house has made today will go a long way toward delivering swift, meaningful relief to americans, during this challenging time. going forward, i will continue to push for further investment in our hard-hit communities. i am under no misconceptions that our work combating this pandemic is done. in the meantime, particularly in this era of sharp partisan division, i hope today's uniquely bipartisan effort will serve as a comforting reminder to the american people of their government's ability to come together in times of crisis to put them first. ms. tlaib. mr. speaker, as individuals, families, and communities across this country and the world deal with the covid-19 pandemic, i know residents in the 13th congressional district are looking for immediate, lasting relief. i know that our medical workers and first responders are looking for resources and enough personal protection equipment to be able to do their jobs caring for the sick. our hospitals are overloaded and need immediate support to provide enough beds and facilities to care for our communities. it is for our residents, frontline medical workers, and hospitals who desperately need help today that i support the passage of the cares act--but this is only the beginning of our fight for relief that goes to the people first. this bill does not go far enough. however, residents are in dire need of direct payments to help replace the loss of income they have experienced. we know residents who are now unemployed cannot wait for an increase in unemployment insurance amounts. small businesses and non- profits will now have access to loans that may be forgiven. hospitals, health care facilities, and medical providers will receive $100 billion dollars to protect communities across the country. and the state of michigan will receive nearly $3.9 billion in funding to help stop this pandemic, including $351 million for public transit systems and nearly $74 million for housing (hud) emergency solution grants. we have already begun the work of pushing for a fourth covid-19 response package that includes critical provisions i have been fighting for in washington. our local governments, municipalities, and states have been at the forefront of responding to this crisis. they have sprung into action and must have the resources they need to save lives, and are now being forced to go without crucial revenues and divert funds to covid-19 relief. i have continuously advocated that we do more to prevent the financial collapse of state and local governments through the federal reserve's toolbox. this bill provides some mechanisms for the fed to provide financial relief to our cities and states, but we need stronger requirements for the fed to purchase debt and support our local governments. a one-time payment is not enough to provide relief to the thousands of our residents who have been laid off or will lose income for the foreseeable future. our residents need monthly payments, like i have proposed, to continue until after the economic shocks caused by this pandemic end. we need to immediately implement a water shutoff prohibition, which 80 members of the house supported in a letter i led with reps. dingell and kildee to house leadership. it is imperative that we ensure households have clean, safe water running from the faucets, especially during a time where hand washing is essential in preventing the spread of covid-19. these critical provisions should have been prioritized over giving corporations a half-trillion dollar handout, which i am concerned that the cares act does. congress must begin working immediately to develop and pass a fourth stimulus bill, one that delivers on these provisions and more for the people who will suffer most during this crisis. ms. degette. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of the coronavirus economic recovery package being considered today. never in our lifetimes have we experienced a public health crisis such as the one we are experiencing right now. from the employees who are losing their jobs, to the small business owners who are being forced to shut down, every facet of our society has been impacted by this pandemic. with millions of american families struggling to make ends meet, congress must take immediate action to bring them relief. the legislation before us today puts us on the path to do just that. most importantly, this package puts workers and their families first. the bill would provide direct payments to most american workers to help them get by while much of our economy is shut down. this extra money is critical to many of my constituents that have had hours slashed or income lost as result of this crisis. the bill also dramatically expands unemployment insurance, including for workers with non-traditional employment. this is vitally important for many of my constituents who work in the gig-economy or are self- employed. under this package, these workers, along with those that work for traditional businesses, would be eligible for unemployment insurance that would, on average, ensure they receive their full pay for four months. and for those that were already on the edge of housing insecurity, this bill would provide billions of dollars in support for affordable housing and homelessness assistance programs. the bill also provides essential support to the small businesses that fuel our local economies and contribute to our communities. [[page h1855]] if we do not take bold action right now, many of these businesses may not survive. we cannot let that happen. this package includes billions of dollars in much-needed assistance for small businesses, that will incentivize them to maintain payroll and avoid laying off workers. and it will help these small businesses afford rent or mortgages as they work tirelessly to navigate this crisis. our students are also hurting from this crisis. this bill would provide billions in emergency education funding and eliminate income tax on a large chunk of student loan repayment assistance paid for by an employer. finally, this package would direct billions of dollars toward hospitals and other health care providers on the frontlines of this pandemic. it will continue our efforts to provide our health care workers with the life-saving protective equipment they need to do their jobs safely and effectively. it is no question that this relief package would provide critical assistance to american workers and their families. but it is also no question that there is more work to be done. we still must do more to protect our immigrant communities, incarcerated individuals, undocumented people, and many more. we also must do more to protect reproductive rights. the inclusion of hyde restrictions on yet another federal funding stream is absolutely unacceptable and should never have been allowed. exploiting the urgent need to pass this emergency funding bill by adding unnecessary abortion coverage restrictions only further harms the health of our communities and shows just how far the administration and anti-abortion politicians will go to push their agenda. furthermore, i am strongly disappointed that the small business administration has been given broad discretion to exclude critical businesses, such as planned parenthood and ymca, from participating in the new small business loan program. this move will only take away imperative resources, particularly essential health services, that our communities need to respond to this public health crisis. despite these concerns, i urge my colleagues to come together and pass this critical package to bring immediate relief to our families, workers, and small businesses. but tomorrow, we must continue our work on the next major piece of legislation to protect the health and well-being of all. mr. carter of texas. mr. speaker, as the coronavirus continues to sweep across our nation, there is nothing more important to me than the health and safety of the american people. i strongly support rapid passage of the cares act to accelerate much-needed resources to our nation's health care professionals and provide critical aide to americans, small businesses, and families. as ranking member of the milcon/va appropriations subcommittee, i am proud to have worked on securing $19.6 billion for veterans' programs to help combat covid-19. i am honored to represent the largest population of veterans in texas and am committed to ensuring congress continues providing top-level care to the brave men and women who have sacrificed to keep our nation and free, many of whom are at-risk of serious complications should they contract covid-19. in this challenging time, it is critical that congress continue working in a bipartisan manner to provide aid, relief, and economic security to the nation. continuing to work across the aisle to provide our country the resources it needs is the only way forward. i am grateful to the incredible health care professionals, first responders and essential service employees who are working tirelessly to keep our nation healthy. i also salute americans who are following guidelines and doing their part to flatten the curve for not only their own health but for their neighbors. together, we will get through this. ms. johnson of texas. mr. speaker, i rise in strong support of h.r. 748, the cares act. this bill is far from perfect, nor do i think this bill contains all that i think is important at this time. we will continue to work. however, this landmark piece of legislation will take a step in providing economic relief for the thousands of texans in my district that are either at home or on the front lines as essential workers, as we fight to bend the curve of this pandemic that is sweeping across our country. again, this is the best we can do at this time, but we will continue to work to ensure the needs of the american people are met. this bipartisan bill that we are debating here today provides economic protection to americans during this crisis by providing expanded unemployment benefits for those that have been laid off, direct cash assistance to our constituents so that they can use this relief to continue meeting their everyday expenses, and much needed funding to our small businesses so that they can meet payroll and overhead costs. furthermore, this bill provides critically needed funding and resources to our hospitals, community health centers, and local and state governments. we must ensure that when our communities are faced with this public health emergency, our systems can provide the urgent medical attention they need. we have also successfully agreed to the requirement for health insurance companies to pay for coronavirus testing, thus eliminating a significant barrier to ensuring that each and every person that needs to be tested can access testing. mr. speaker, this is a public health crisis that has vast economic consequences. our job in congress should be to ensure the safety and prosperity of our constituents as we fight this pandemic, this bill takes a step in doing exactly that. it will not be the only step we take in addressing both the public health and economic issues that this we will face throughout this fight, but it is a step in the right direction. i urge my colleagues to come together and support this monumental legislation. ms. underwood. mr. speaker, the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security (cares) act puts the health and well-being of families and workers first in order to provide support and relief to americans suffering from the health and economic impacts of the devastating covid-19 pandemic. throughout my time in congress and especially now, i have consistently prioritized policies that save lives and support northern illinois families. the best way we can do this is to take immediate action to help our economy and support the everyday people who make it work. this has been a terribly hard time for our community. according to the johns hopkins university & medicine coronavirus resource center, today, there are 549,604 cases globally, and 85,996 cases in the united states. the illinois department of public health reports 2,538 positive cases and 26 deaths in illinois as of march 26, 2020. we have lost beloved community members across illinois's 14th congressional district. countless others are in need of testing, and thousands of our frontline health care providers need personal protective equipment (ppe). and, all across our community, families are being thrown into economic distress--over 114,000 illinoisans applied for unemployment last week alone. many of us are coming together during these times. that extension of kindness and grace must extend to our neighbors of asian descent who are facing an increased amount of discrimination and hate-filled acts. this type of division, along with the dissemination of false information about covid-19, is dangerous for public health and safety and cannot be tolerated. i have spent the last weeks talking with hundreds of people all across our community. during some conversations i heard from parents trying to balance working from home, educating their children, and caring for elderly loved ones. for some, it meant talking to small business owners trying to figure out how to make sure their family businesses and their employees come back from this. for other calls, it meant listening to folks who are scared that they will run out of money before they can work again and that they do not know how to keep their family afloat. and i heard from the husband of a nurse who is terrified his wife is at risk because she is bravely going into work every day without sufficient protective equipment. our community is struggling in all kinds of different ways. but we know that we will get through this unsettling and extremely challenging time together. one of the best tools we have to help right now is the cares act: a robust legislative package developed with bipartisan, bicameral cooperation at record speed over the last week in order to protect our community's health--including health care providers on the front lines of this crisis--and our economy. notably, this legislation contains updates to ensure that americans will not have to pay out of pocket for covid-19 testing, and it ensures medicare will cover a covid-19 vaccine as soon as our brilliant scientists get one to market. in the face of a pandemic, all americans should have access to a reliable covid-19 diagnostic test if they need one. tests are not yet widely available in our northern illinois community, and our three public health labs in illinois are working around the clock to deliver results for patients. we will keep working to expand testing capacity in our communities, a critical step towards disease surveillance. the incredible contribution of our most trusted health providers, nurses, has been on full display throughout the coronavirus response. from student nurses surging to help care for sick patients in new york city to recently retired nurses stepping up to serve our community at home in illinois, nurses continue to lead on the front lines of clinical research and practice. importantly, the cares act invests in the heroic americans who are giving everything right now to save lives: health care providers. [[page h1856]] the cares act secures $100 billion to help hospitals, health systems, and community providers cover costs related to covid-19. this will help northwestern medicine, the largest employer in my district, as well as community health centers like the center for family health in sycamore, which will see their funding boosted and extended. these clinics are lifelines in our community and i am proud to support their work. there is not a health care facility in illinois right now that is not in need of additional personal protective equipment for the brave americans serving our ill neighbors. all health providers, caregivers, essential personnel, and first responders should have complete sets of ppe that is required to do their jobs safely--they are mission critical and key to our recovery from covid-19. there have been widespread shortages of ppe, certainly in our community, but also in many others across the country. this is unacceptable, and i hope the administration's new supply chain stabilization task force will quickly increase the availability of needed ppe, including by utilizing the full force of the defense production act, which could make desperately needed testing supplies and ppe available in the communities that need them most. in the meantime, heroic members of my community, like anna haley fielder of antioch, are stepping up to fill the unmet need by organizing neighbors to sew face masks to help protect health providers and other essential workers. this should never have had to happen in the first place. that is why i support the cares act's provision of $16 billion to replenish covid-19 supplies in the strategic national stockpile. this builds on the $3.1 billion allocated for the public health and social services emergency fund, which supports the strategic national stockpile, in h.r. 6074, the coronavirus preparedness and response supplemental appropriations act of 2020. first responders have a critical need for ppe as well. over the past week, many mayors have expressed their concern to me that firefighters and law enforcement officers without the ppe needed to safely protect our community during this pandemic may fall victim to covid-19, impairing their public safety mission. the cares act includes $100 million for the assistance to firefighters grant program, which can pay for ppe and other supplies our first responders need. our health care workforce is being tested at greater levels than we have seen in recent decades, which is why the inclusion of the title viii nursing workforce reauthorization act of 2019 (h.r. 728) in the cares act is so critically important. i championed this bipartisan legislation early in my congressional tenure because i know that an investment in nursing education yields exponential return in our communities. one of the principles of effective preparedness is ensuring a supply chain that can provide needed supplies during times of emergencies and public health crises like a global pandemic. the cares act includes bipartisan legislation, the commission on u.s. medical security act (h.r. 6282), which i helped introduce with dr. raul ruiz, dr. phil roe, and my illinois colleague senator dick durbin. our legislation will strengthen the security of the u.s. medical supply chain. supporting seniors who are at high risk for infection is a priority in the cares act, which includes $200 million to help mitigate covid-19 spread in nursing homes. i am pleased that many improvements to medicare, funding to support our health system and family caregivers, and critical support services like meals on wheels were also included in the legislation. these resources will be critical to prevent outbreaks and save lives. this month, wall street's response to this crisis led to trading suspensions and record shifts in the stock market. swift intervention to stabilize our economy, and embracing policies to support workers, families, and small businesses first allows us to invest in the critical economic engines that fuel northern illinois. my legislative agenda has long centered on economic security and opportunity for the working families of the 14th district. this commitment has been demonstrated through supporting a broad approach to job creation and championing legislation that provides flexibility to entrepreneurs seeking to start a small business. small businesses are the foundation of our economy throughout the 14th congressional district, and the cares act recognizes their unique challenges. a new $350 billion paycheck protection program will make zero-fee loans available to small businesses, with the ability to have up to eight weeks of payroll and other costs forgiven from the loan if a business retains employees and their salary levels--an important incentive to support workers. another $10 billion in grants will support small businesses and nonprofits that have suffered economic injury in response to covid-19, a provision that will make a difference for illinois families. this is on top of the first wave of billions of dollars for small business disaster loans that are already being processed. many families will receive direct financial assistance from the u.s. treasury, to stimulate consumer confidence and provide a needed boost to many families experiencing difficult and unanticipated related economic circumstances related to covid-19. individuals can receive a recovery rebate of up to $1,200 each (up to $2,400 for a married couple) with an additional $500 per child. with an unexpected layoff or sharp decrease in earning potential, many families find themselves with limited income and difficulty affording rent, mortgage payments, and other housing-related obligations. as part of our efforts to offer relief to workers and families, the cares act allows forbearance on federally-backed mortgages for family homes for up to 12 months and sets a moratorium on foreclosures and evictions in many properties receiving federal subsidies or assistance. employers are also receiving needed financial support and flexibility for their workforces, including loans from the small business administration. i hope many employers take advantage of these new programs quickly in order to retain their skilled and loyal workers and facilitate a quicker economic recovery. the cares act also supports self-employed and gig economy workers through a temporary pandemic unemployment assistance program. this legislation also expands the unemployment insurance available to those who have lost work through this crisis by $600 per week, and immediately extends the period for which coverage is available by 13 weeks. on march 26, 2020, we learned that 3.28 million americans filed for unemployment during the previous week, more than four times higher than ever recorded. the department of labor reports that in reporting these numbers, ``states continued to cite services industries broadly, particularly accommodation and food services.'' this is no surprise to illinois workers who have seen in-restaurant dining closed since march 16. the united states postal service has been a steady presence in our communities, offering essential mail and supply delivery services to even the most remote homes in our country with their six-day delivery schedule. the cares act includes some assistance for the postal service, and i will work to further support our postal system in future legislation. so many families across my community are experiencing hardship due to covid-19. whether helping families through sickness or loss of income, our local charities and nonprofits have quickly stepped up to serve our seven counties and i am pleased the cares act creates a $300 above-the- line deduction for charitable contributions from taypayers who take the standard deduction. the department of veterans affairs is also responding to the covid-19 crisis. the cares act offers $14.4 billion for testing kits, personal protective equipment, and medical supplies to support growing demand for health care services at the va. the bill also allows for new agreements to temporarily expand telemental health for veterans in rural areas who may lack local providers who could offer those needed services. governor pritzker of illinois ordered all schools closed by march 17, 2020, to slow the spread of covid-19. in response to my conversations with superintendents, i prioritized securing resources to facilitate e- learning for our k-12 students. many school districts in the 14th congressional district also need funding flexibility due to disruption in the academic year from covid-19, and i am pleased that the cares act begins to deliver. the bill includes $13.5 billion in grants to states for k-12 education, which can be used for the costs of responding to covid-19, including for hardware to support e-learning. the legislation also supports college students whose semesters were disrupted due to covid-19. while the cares act falls short of offering the comprehensive relief from student loans that is necessary in this grave economic period, the bill offers much-needed temporary relief. i will continue to work for more in future relief packages. on march 17, 2020, illinois held primary elections, allowing residents to safely participate in our democracy. we must already start making plans to ensure the remaining states can complete their primary elections with the same emphasis on health and safety for the american people. the cares act makes a $400 million down payment towards protecting our democracy during this crisis through election security grants to states, but more must be done. the take responsibility for workers and families act provided $4 billion to secure our elections during this crisis, and would implement needed reforms, like easier voter registration, 15-day early voting periods, and vote by mail expansions. these reforms have been implemented in illinois, are popular and effective, and should be implemented in any upcoming federal legislation responding to covid-19. keeping america safe from terrorism and other national security threats must remain a [[page h1857]] priority in times of pandemics. we cannot let our preparedness posture suffer under the weight of a whole-of-government pandemic response or distracted attention from ongoing homeland security initiatives. as a result, i am pleased the cares act reauthorizes the chemical facility anti-terrorism standards program through july 2020 and provides $9 million for the cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency to help secure our supply chains and critical infrastructure during this crisis. this important legislation is not the end, our families will need more. we need to improve health care affordability, expand access to care, and offer protections from the surprise medical bills that could arise as a result of covid-19 testing or treatment. we need a special open enrollment period to allow uninsured individuals to sign up for affordable health care. we will need to expand paid family and medical leave and we will need increased health care worker and pension protections. our state and local governments will need more resources to support their leadership on the ground. and we will likely need more in payments directly into the hands of americans so they can continue to support their families and their local economies. i will fight for our community's needs and work with my colleagues to get these priorities included in the next congressional relief package. the cares act puts the health and well-being of families and workers first, to allow us to recover from covid-19 and rebuild the u.s. economy. i am so deeply grateful to the health care providers, first responders, grocery store clerks, and all the people on the front lines of this crisis. i am grateful to serve our country at this time of immense need to care for individuals, families and these united states of america. together we will rise. let us take care of our neighbors. wash our hands. and be well. i will see you again soon. ms. haaland. mr. speaker, new mexicans, americans, and people around the world are facing a crisis: the coronavirus pandemic is giving us an opportunity to question what we value most. how do we value the workers who grow and harvest our food, deliver it to our stores, and help put it on our tables? how do we value the people who put their lives on the line in hospitals and healthcare centers to keep our loved ones healthy? how do we value the people who educate and care for our children during the day so that they are ready for the future? our lives and our way of life are threatened by this virus, and the only way we can battle that threat is to do it together. i have spoken with doctors, nurses, and first responders in albuquerque who put their own lives at risk every day to help identify those who are infected and treat those who are sick, and they are running out of personal protective equipment and testing supplies. they are worried that hospitals do not have the capacity to handle all the patients who will fall ill. democrats fought to make sure that the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act includes comprehensive support for health care workers. the bill provides $150 billion to help all types of hospitals and providers that are most affected by covid-19 and will fund whatever is needed to fight this virus. it also creates a $150 billion coronavirus relief fund to help state, local, and tribal governments' efforts to fight the pandemic. i am pleased that a minimum of $1.25 billion of this funding is allocated for new mexico, and i fought to make sure that $8 billion will go to indian tribes across the country. in addition, the bill includes over $30 billion for states, school districts, and institutions of higher education to address coronavirus costs. we all have an important role to play in the battle against the coronavirus, too. humans are responsible for the spread, but that also means we have the power to stop it. we must protect our seniors and keep our distance from each other while the virus runs its course. i know this is not easy, and it creates challenges of its own. i had a virtual small business forum with the albuquerque hispano chamber--we heard stories about the tough choices small businesses must make. do they layoff the workers who rely on the income they provide to support their families? do they pay as much as they can, as long as they can and then close their doors for good? this bill provides a lifeline so folks can make it through this time when we must change our behavior to stop the spread of the virus. i know what it is like to live paycheck to paycheck, to not know if i would be able to care for a family member if they were sick, or if i would be able to afford a hospital bill. this stimulus package provides direct payments to working class families of $1,200 per adult, with an additional $500 available per child. it also provides a $600 per week increase in unemployment payments for every american, which pays 100 percent of wages for the average american struggling through this crisis without a paycheck. it also extends benefits for an additional 13 weeks and gives part-time, self- employed, tipped employees, and gig economy workers access to unemployment benefits. and it protects the contractors who keep our critical national labs running. we are also acting to protect new mexico small businesses. the bill's small business rescue plan includes $350 billion in loan forgiveness grants to small businesses and non-profits to maintain their existing workforce and help pay expenses like rent, mortgage and utilities and $10 billion for emergency grants of up to $10,000 to provide immediate relief of small business operating costs. while the bill does a lot, this is not the last action congress must take. even after we stop the spread of the virus, our families will need more support. i will be working to ensure that future bills make health the top priority for all people; that we provide economic relief directly to the people of this country, that we rescue workers and communities, not corporate executives; that we protect our democratic process; and that we support the transition to a an economy that will promote economic security for all; i wish these things were in the bill we are voting on today, but we needed to get this bill passed quickly with broad bipartisan support, so there was not time to do everything each of us wanted. i am supporting the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act today, and i will keep fighting to protect the health, safety, and economic security of all new mexicans and all of us as we battle this pandemic. mr. buchanan. mr. speaker, i would like to take this opportunity to express my strong support the bipartisan coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security (cares) act. the coronavirus is one of the most serious public health threats we have ever faced, particularly for our seniors and people with underlying health conditions. that is why i was pleased to see members of congress on both sides of the aisle and the trump administration work together to craft this $2 trillion emergency relief bill addressing the coronavirus pandemic--the largest emergency aid bill in history. this legislation provides much-needed financial assistance for individuals, families, small and medium-sized businesses, hospitals, medical facilities and state and local governments. the bill also includes significant resources for our front-line health care workers and first responders to ensure they have the vital equipment and medical supplies they need to protect the american public and themselves. going forward, we need to dramatically ramp-up the supply of test kits, increase the number of locations where people exhibiting symptoms can easily get tested, and accelerate the process of getting results back--hopefully in less than 24 hours. we also need to accelerate the development of an affordable, effective vaccine, continue to implement proper quarantine and self- isolation procedures, and ensure the safety of our health workers who are testing, diagnosing, and treating confirmed cases. and while i am confident that the legislation before us today is a significant step in the right direction, there is still much more work to be done to help my constituents and the american people during this unprecedented period of health and economic challenges. with that, mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues on both side of the aisle to support this sweeping rescue package and look forward to president trump signing it into law. mr. quigley. mr. speaker, this legislation is a bold, bipartisan deal to address the ongoing health care crisis, protect workers, and assist small businesses. this is first and foremost a health care crisis. until we address this pandemic, our economy will not recover. i was proud to lead a bipartisan letter with dave joyce in support of the $130 billion direct hospital funding included in this bill. the most important thing congress can do after addressing the health care crisis is to provide direct assistance to the american people. thanks to the tireless work of leadership from both parties, many individuals with working class salaries will receive a one-time direct payment of around $1200. and we have provided unemployment assistance that goes well beyond the initial proposal by ensuring that every worker--including gig workers--are protected. we cannot ask taxpayers to foot the bill for rescuing our economy without the promise of accountability. this bill prevents any secret bailouts and ensures no member of this administration can benefit from this crisis. each legislative measure we pass is just a single step. there will be more need and congress will need to act to address those needs as they arise. [[page h1858]] i will be keeping in close contact with my constituents, so i know exactly what their needs are on the ground and bring that back to congress so no one is forgotten or left behind. mr. connolly. mr. speaker, americans are scared. we are in the midst of the worst public health pandemic in more than 100 years. across our country, more than 85,000 americans have now been touched by coronavirus, and more than one thousand lives have been lost. loved ones are making the difficult and heartbreaking choice to be absent from grandparents and elderly mothers and fathers, so that they do not get exposed to this deadly virus. our hospitals and medical first responders are doing heroic work, but worry they cannot meet the demands that may walk through the door tomorrow. schools have been shuttered, while moms and dads are forced to figure out how to continue on and bring some normalcy to this new way of life. businesses and restaurants are struggling, and many have been forced to close or lay-off workers. just yesterday, we got our first glimpse into the devastating unemployment outlook--3.3 million americans applied for assistance last week. we have all heard these stories of this painful new reality. our communities are reeling. they are seeking leadership, guidance, truth, empathy, assistance and most of all, hope for a better tomorrow. we need to be all of those things for our constituents--and this package is another important step. nothing in life is ever perfect and this bill is no exception. but we cannot make perfect be the enemy of the good. there is much i would like added to this legislation, there are offensive provisions i would like deleted. but the balance of aid to a hurting nation demands we act and act now. we are providing unprecedented unemployment insurance and a lifeline during this trying time to those who have lost their job. this package provides billions of dollars to hospitals and first responders so that they have the personal protective gear, ventilators, and the medical supplies they need to meet this crisis. nearly every family will receive a direct payment to help cover rent, or groceries, or just make ends meet. small businesses will have resources so that they can hopefully remain open and keep their employees on payroll. states and localities will see an infusion of federal investment to cover the challenges they face in providing for our neighbors. but our work is not done. the postal service, which every american relies on for prescription drugs, care packages, and critical services, is in crisis and must be addressed. states and local communities who are the frontlines will require more assistance. we must continue to meet those needs. this bill is congress' reaffirmation of the unstinting strength of the american people, a clarion statement in our faith in the future, a clear and forceful renewal in our unshakeable belief that our country will rise from the present travail, tested, resilient and renewed. mr. sablan. mr. speaker, even amid crisis--and particularly in these days of social distancing--we should not forget to say thank you. for the third time in as many weeks speaker pelosi has led this house to respond forcefully to the coronavirus. to give healthcare providers the resources they need to heal and halt the spread of this disease. to give families the financial aid they need to weather the crisis. and now to support the workers and businesses that are the heart of our economy. throughout this unprecedented effort, negotiated at lightning speed late into many nights, with ideologies at loggerheads and the eye of history upon them, always the speaker and her leadership team remembered the united states of america includes the people of the mariana islands. and for that i am grateful. the legislation we have enacted to stop the coronavirus is not perfect. no legislation ever is. we have more work to do, until we defeat this disease and revive our nation. but i can work every day confident in the knowledge the people of the marianas are considered every bit as much a part of this battle as every other american--not to be left behind, not forgotten. and for that i am grateful. ms. bonamici. mr, speaker, i rise today in strong support of h.r. 748, the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security (cares) act. our country is suffering from a pandemic on an unimaginable scale, and this legislation will provide critical support to workers and families, small businesses, healthcare providers, student loan borrowers, and people struggling to make ends meet. during the global covid-19 pandemic, it is clear that we need direct payments to individuals to strengthen and rebuild our economy and to assist everyone with basics needs, such as rent and groceries. the pandemic has caused businesses to shutter without clarity about if or when they will be able to reopen, and it has left workers with the uncertainty of whether they will have a job to return to when this crisis ends. i am pleased that this bill provides a direct cash payment of up to $1200 for individuals making up to $75,000, and at least $2400 for families making up to $150,000. this is a good start, but congress will need to extend this assistance if the pandemic continues as expected. last week more than 3 million people applied for unemployment insurance benefits, including more than 76,500 claims in oregon. this is the highest number in our country's recorded history. the bill we are passing today will expand unemployment insurance to part-time, self-employed, and gig economy workers and it bolsters the weekly benefit by an additional $600. incentives for states to eliminate waiting periods for enrollment of ui and an additional 13 weeks of federal funded unemployment benefits are also included. additionally, the bill includes rent assistance and additional funding for snap. in addition to providing for cash payments and enhanced ui benefits, the bill greatly increases wraparound services that families across the country need. the bill includes an increase in low income home energy assistance program funding to help people heat and cool their homes, a moratorium on many evictions and foreclosures, more than $30 billion to help school districts and higher education institutions, and a six- month pause on payment and interest accrual of federal student loans. furthermore, i advocated for the treasury department to temporarily halt wage garnishment and collection programs for certain unpaid debts, and this bill incorporates provisions to suspend involuntary collections of student loans, including garnishing wages, tax refunds, and essential benefits like social security. we also know that now, more than ever, we need to be taking care of our seniors and the most vulnerable. my legislation, the advocating for older americans during coronavirus crisis act, was included in the bill. these provisions will make sure that seniors in long-term care facilities have access to support advocates during the crisis. i also led my colleagues in advocating for funding for workforce development programs for workers displaced or dislocated by the covid-19 pandemic. although i am pleased that this bill includes some funding for employment services, much more is needed to support our nation's economic recovery and the success of workers. as a leader on the education and labor committee, i will continue to fight to protect workers, families, students, and seniors throughout this crisis. additionally, many small business owners have had to close because of the pandemic. their owners have told me that they do not know if or when they will be able to return to normal operations. this legislation provides $377 billion for small businesses, including $350 billion in loans for small businesses and non-profits to use to cover their expenses. importantly, these loans may be forgiven if the proceeds are used to retain employees and keep the businesses open. i also advocated on behalf of the arts and humanities community to make sure that relief for non-profits was included in this bill. small and medium sized farms in northwest oregon are continuing to supply our food chain, but this pandemic is disrupting the livelihoods of farmers, their families, and their employees. i advocated for additional funding to send directly to farmers, and i am pleased that this package includes $9.5 billion in emergency funding for agriculture, including growers of our prized specialty crops. our health care workers and hospitals have been on the front lines of fighting this pandemic, and this legislation secures $150 billion in funding to support those efforts. the bill makes sure those critical care providers have the resources they need to respond to the crisis by making additional investments in public health infrastructure, community health systems, vaccine development, and funds for the purchase of critical medical supplies. importantly, that funding will be used to acquire urgently needed personal protective equipment (ppe) and testing supplies, as well as new facility construction to meet the demand. there is more we need do to get ppe into the hands of our health care providers and first responders, and i will be focusing my efforts on increasing production of domestic manufacturing in the days and weeks ahead. our frontline workers would not be able to do their lifesaving work without robust child care support. this bill provides an additional $3.5 billion in child care development block [[page h1859]] grant funding to make sure that nurses, firefighters, doctors, and others who are still working are able to access child care, and that our child care providers have the financial support necessary to keep their doors open and safely care for children. there is also additional funding for head start programs. for weeks, states have been shouldering the burden of combating the pandemic, and this bill provides critical funding to support their ongoing efforts. the legislation creates a coronavirus relief fund for states, and oregon will receive more than $1.6 billion to help pay for the costs associated with fighting coronavirus. the bill also contains funding for community development block grants, which will help our local communities rebuild. as we continue to battle this pandemic, i am so grateful for manufacturers across oregon and around the country are stepping up and working on innovative ways to provide assistance. the bill will make it easier for manufacturers to make personal protective equipment and get it into the hands of those who need it most. i championed a provision in the bill that increases federal funding for manufacturing usa institutes and our local manufacturing extension partnerships, and a cost share waiver so that partnerships like the oregon manufacturing extension partnership can begin their work without delay. i also advocated for strengthening of the defense production act to support our manufacturers in meeting the ppe shortage, and i am pleased that this bill includes $1. billion in dpa funding to strengthen the domestic supply chain. finally, this bill includes $500 billion in loans to companies to provide security to our economy. we fought tirelessly to make sure that these loans are subject to strong oversight and robust guardrails to provide accountability and protect the american workforce. companies that participate in the bill's loan program must not engage in stock buyback for the life of the loan plus one year, there are restrictions on executive compensation increases, and collective bargaining agreements are protected. the bill creates a treasury department special inspector general for pandemic recovery and a pandemic response accountability committee, as well as a congressional oversight committee to make sure that the loan program is fully transparent and accountable to the american people. importantly, the bill prohibits businesses controlled by the president, his family, and members of congress from receiving loans under the program. we will continue to provide vigorous oversight over these companies and further advance the needs of workers in future legislation to promote economic recovery. i thank speaker pelosi for her leadership in negotiating this critical package. there is much more work we must do on behalf of oregonians and people around the country, and i will continue to work with my colleagues to enact policies to help working families. ms. mccollum. mr. speaker, i rise today in strong support of the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act (h.r. 748). as america responds to the global coronavirus (covid-19) pandemic, i am proud that the house and the senate have worked together in bipartisan fashion to produce an emergency relief package that will rescue our economy from collapse and put the needs of america's working families, our hospitals, and frontline responders first. in this unprecedented crisis facing our nation, congress has the obligation to take immediate and bold action to protect the health and economic security of all americans. that is why congress has already passed two emergency relief bills that provided billions of dollars for testing, vaccine development, food security for vulnerable populations, and paid sick leave for workers. this third bill before us today builds on those down payments and addresses the economic security of our nation. h.r. 748 will ensure that america's working families, our small businesses, and industries vital to our economic strength will survive this crisis and continue to thrive. this legislation will assist low and middle-income americans by providing them immediate financial relief in the form of direct cash payments and expanded access to unemployment benefits. it will provide $349 billion in loans and grants to small businesses to ensure that they are able to pay their bills and meet their payroll obligations. and, h.r. 748 will provide $150 billion to state, local, and tribal governments to assist them with their public health response and short-term spending shortages. additionally, i was proud to work to include $1 billion in funding for the community services block grant (csbg) to assist our national network of over a thousand community action agencies as they respond to this crisis. these agencies are in almost every county in america and will serve as a first line of defense for millions of americans facing unemployment and economic hardship. h.r. 748 will also provide over $100 billion in urgently needed assistance to our hospitals, including $1 billion for the indian health service. our health care workers are risking their own safety on the frontlines of this crisis, fighting every hour of the week to save american lives. we must ensure that they have the protective personal equipment needed to keep them safe. h.r. 748 will help give them those tools. as we pass this legislation today, we know that our work on behalf of america's families is nowhere near complete. the 116th congress will now turn to additional legislation to assist the sick, the unemployed, and the most vulnerable as we move through this period of national and global crisis. again, i urge my colleagues to support this legislation. mr. turner. mr. speaker, today, i cast my vote for the coronavirus relief package. the coronavirus pandemic has affected americans deeply in every facet of their lives. our government has asked, and in ohio our governor has ordered, that americans stay home other than for essential needs. our president and governor's goal has been to keep americans safe. this has put a dire strain on our economy. in addition, our hospitals are having increased costs and decreased revenue. small businesses are struggling to make payroll or even stay open. employees are being furloughed or laid off. families are struggling to keep food on the table and make their mortgage or rent payments. we must now provide necessary financial relief to families, individuals, and businesses bearing the burden of the covid-19 crisis. i want to thank our health care workers, grocers, law enforcement, and national guard for showing up to work, fighting coronavirus on the frontlines, and keeping our communities safe. mrs. lowey. mr. speaker, i rise in strong support of this historic families and workers-first legislation. my own community is an epicenter of the coronavirus. families in the lower hudson valley--as in other areas of the country--have lost loved ones, and even as we all hunker down for our lives, too many fear that their livelihoods are still at risk when this crisis ends. congress must come together in this historic, bipartisan way to meet this crisis head-on and ease some of the burden on our communities. this legislation will provide increased testing capacity, personal protective equipment for health workers, funding for hospitals and health care providers, and research and development on vaccines and therapeutics as well as much needed resources for small businesses, schools, and state and local governments. this country is resilient, and i am pleased that this third package will give hundreds of millions of dollars in federal assistance to help westchester and rockland counties recover from this pandemic. we must send this bill to the president's desk today to reassure the american people that the federal government is united in protecting every american's health and economic security. mr. rogers of kentucky. mr. speaker, i rise today to express my strong support for h.r. 748, the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act. simply put, the challenges that the covid-19 coronavirus pose to our country are without precedent. as the president has said, we are at war. but it is not a war against another country or a terrorist network, it is a war against a silent enemy that is ravaging our people and forcing us to sacrifice our economic wellbeing. this is especially hurting us in rural america, where small businesses, rural hospitals, barber shops, non-profits, and the like are scrambling for answers and hope, my people in southern and eastern kentucky have responded to this crisis with incredible courage and compassion. without being prompted, our people are filling in the gaps. i have heard story after story about healthcare workers on the frontlines despite not having the protective equipment they need; churches are shifting online and offering assistance to local families; and neighbors, teachers and community leaders are making sure our school children and seniors do not miss a meal. and this bill provides the necessary confidence they need to know a plan is in place to get through this crisis together. i was proud to work with house and senate leadership to ensure that this bill protects our small businesses, keeps our hospitals afloat, and provides financial stability to our hardworking families. it also provides much needed funding for medical supplies, and ensures our cities, counties, and states have the resources necessary to ensure the safety of our citizens. as ranking member of the state, foreign operations, and related programs subcommittee, i would also like to note that this bill provides critical funding for the state department to respond to the pandemic at united states diplomatic facilities around the globe, to support continued consular services to americans abroad, and for costs associated with [[page h1860]] bringing home americans that have been stranded overseas. funding is also provided to ensure all peace corps volunteers get home safe. lastly, funds are included to support humanitarian assistance needs related to the coronavirus internationally. but above all else, the most important thing this bill does is bring hope to americans searching for a way to protect the health of their families and their livelihood. mr. speaker, since our country's birth nearly 250 years ago, the american people have faced a myriad of challenges. and in every one of these instances, we have pulled together and overcome. i have full faith that we will do so again, and this bill helps ensure that we will be victorious. i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 748. mr. thompson of california. mr. speaker, this bill represents a critical compromise between both parties whose members came together in light of the corona virus pandemic. it is not perfect, but it is an important step forward. i have said since the start we had to help workers, small businesses, and the health care providers who have been hit and intense negotiations have produced a bill that prioritizes the needs of our health system and of working families ahead of big corporations. i have spent the last several days reviewing the bill and discussing the fine points with leaders in our district who agree this is a good start--this bill will help our communities and get them the assistance they need right away. it gives hospitals a massive infusion of support, including medical supplies, such as personal protective equipment. it helps people who are struggling financially with rebate checks and a strong emergency unemployment program. and it boosts our small businesses with grants and emergency loans so they can keep going despite the economic toll this virus is taking on our communities. i am proud to support this bill because it puts workers and their families first by providing direct, individual assistance to households. it includes rebates up to $2,400 for families, expands unemployment benefits by providing up to four months of an additional $600 per week of unemployment insurance, waives the 10 percent early withdrawal penalty on retirement account distributions for taxpayers facing virus-related challenges, protects the right to collective bargain, and ensures small businesses have the resources they need through the small business administration. moreover, this legislation provides a massive and essential boost to our overall health care system. it provides $100 billion for hospitals and other facilities to cover the costs of the covid-19 outbreak, $16 billion for the acquisition of personal protective equipment for medical personnel, and over $50 billion for state, local and tribal health departments. i am particularly pleased that the bill expanded on legislation of mine signed into law earlier this month, expanding the use of telehealth and telemedicine for medicare and medicaid patients. this package not only broadened the scope of telehealth for these patients, but also adopted my legislation to ensure that beneficiaries can access telehealth services at rural health clinics and federally qualified health centers. i would also note the importance of language in the bill staving off scheduled cuts to disproportionate share hospitals (dsh) through december 1, 2020. i am hopeful that congress can come together to permanently address these cuts, but applaud legislators for ensuring that these harmful cuts do not take place at precisely the worst possible time. as chairman of the house subcommittee on select revenue measures, i am pleased the legislation establishes a refundable employee retention tax credit, to be taken against federal payroll taxes, for struggling businesses that retain and pay their workers, rather than lay them off. the amount of the credit is equal to 50 percent of an employee's qualified wages, up to a $10,000 per employee cap. further, the bill includes modifications of the limitation on losses for taxpayers other than corporations, like sole proprietors; modifications of the credit for prior year minimum tax liability of corporations; modifications of the limitation on business interest; a technical amendment to allow businesses to write off costs associated with improving their facilities; and a temporary exception from the excise tax for alcohol used to produce hand sanitizer. the bill provides $350 billion in loan forgiveness grants to small businesses and nonprofits to maintain existing workforce and help pay for other expenses like rent, mortgage, and utilities; $10 billion for sba emergency grants of up to $10,000 to provide immediate relief for small business operating costs; and $17 billion for sba to cover six months' worth of payments for small businesses with existing sba loans. in addition, the bill establishes a new guaranteed loan program at sba for small businesses to cover payroll during the immediate crisis called the paycheck protection program that would support $349 billion in 100 percent guaranteed, low interest, no fee loans of up to $10 million with repayment deferred for at least six months; and forgive up to 100 percent of the loan if the borrower has retained the same number of employees as when they received the loan. our law enforcement and first responders are on the front line of this crisis and i am proud that this bill provides $850 million for the byrne-justice assistance grant program (byrne-jag). byrne-jag is the most flexible federal law enforcement grant program and will allow local police departments and jails to meet local needs, including the purchase of personal protective equipment and other needed medical items to support officers on the front lines. for states and local governments this bill provides $1 billion for the community development block grant (cdbg) program to enable nearly 1,240 states, counties, and cities to rapidly respond to covid-19 and the economic and housing impacts caused by it. this includes the expansion of community health facilities, child care centers, food banks, and senior services. to ensure resources are quickly deployed and meet the unique response needs to covid-19, the bill eliminates the cap on the amount of funds a grantee can spend on public services, removes the requirement to hold in-person public hearings to comply with national and local social gathering requirements, and allows grantees to be reimbursed for covid-19 response activities regardless of the date the costs were incurred. i am continuously impressed with americans' generosity during a crisis. however, during this particular emergency, we are asked to stay away from people. that brings a significant financial strain on many industries, especially those who supply/stock food. with many americans losing their jobs and an inability to buy groceries, an increase to the emergency food assistance program (tefap) is a necessity to keep food banks fully stocked and supply americans with nutritious meals. we must also ensure that our supplemental nutrition assistance program can provide food for our most vulnerable populations. while $15.5 billion was allocated to snap, we could use more. the last thing students, especially pell grant recipients, need to worry about is how to pay for their student loans or if they can keep their grant. i am grateful this act defers student loan payments for six months and allows students to keep their entitlements. the $30.750 billion that is allocated to the state's education stabilization fund will ensure america's learners are still able to operate remotely and can continue to develop to their full potential, regardless of their learning location. to alleviate the anticipated strain on our healthcare system, the bill provides funds for the department of defense to contribute its unique capabilities to the whole-of-government response to the pandemic. these funds will support the deployment of the usns mercy hospital ship to los angeles and the usns comfort to new york, deployments of the national guard to support state and local response efforts, and the expansion of military hospitals and expeditionary hospitals. to help bolster the supply chains for medical equipment, the bill provides $1 billion for the defense production act to help industry ramp up production of personal protective equipment, ventilators, and other urgently needed medical supplies for federal, state, and local health agencies. the bill protects our veterans by ensuring the department of veterans affairs (va) has the equipment, tests, and services necessary to support a surge in demand and provide the additional care they need at facilities nationwide. in particular, i am pleased the bill supports the needs of veterans at an increased risk of infection. funding is included for the health care for homeless veterans program and for keeping veterans within va-run nursing homes and community living centers safe from the coronavirus. this is not our last legislative effort to help our nation and the people we represent. i have already begun conversations with our local leaders and with my colleagues in congress about what will be in our next relief package. we will get through this together. mr. courtney. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of the third covid-19 relief package--the cares act. house and senate leadership has worked tirelessly around-the-clock to find middle ground to deliver tangible relief to communities around the country reeling from the impacts of covid-19. the final bipartisan compromise that was negotiated over the last few days included some meaningful changes with input from the house of representatives, including major additional investments in the health care sector that was missing from the original bill. these investments include an additional $100 billion for hospitals and health care providers, $16 billion for the production and purchase of personal protective equipment (ppe) and ventilators, and $11 billion to fund critical, lifesaving [[page h1861]] medical research so that we may better understand this virus and someday soon, have a vaccine to stop it. while our state and local governments are making heroic efforts to combat covid-19, there is no doubt they need additional support. the revised cares act does just that--providing over one billion dollars at a minimum to every state in the nation to fight this, including $1.38 billion for connecticut. this funding will be critical to make sure we can get the job done. mr. speaker, while there is more work to be done to support our constituents through this crisis, the cares act is a much-needed step in the right direction, and i urge its immediate passage. mr. blumenauer. mr. speaker, today's vote is a welcome sign to the hundreds of thousands of oregonians i represent who are worried about staying healthy, keeping their job, and paying their bills. this legislation is by no means perfect, nor does it do nearly enough to stop the spread of covid-19, but it is immeasurably better than the senate's initial bill. i strongly support this legislation today, but it is critical that we start working immediately on the next bill to speed the recovery of our economy and strengthen the healthcare system. americans need a coordinated, whole-of-government response to provide healthcare and economic security during the coronavirus pandemic. the coronavirus aid, relief and economic security (cares) act of 2020 includes many of the provisions that i advocated for in my economic stabilization plan. first, the bill includes direct cash assistance of $1,200 per individual and $2,400 for married couples. the bill also includes a temporary expansion of unemployment insurance so that workers affected by covid-19 and eligible for unemployment compensation--including non-traditional employment like the self- employed and gig workers--receive an extra $600 per week, resulting in weekly benefits that replace 100 percent of wages for the average worker. for local businesses, the bill provides nearly $350 billion in forgivable loans and grants to small businesses and non-profits so they can continue to pay their employees and cover other expenses during this crisis, like rent, mortgage payments, or utilities. small businesses also will have access to emergency grants of up to $10,000 to provide immediate relief for operating costs once a small business or non-profit has applied for an economic injury disaster loan. finally, this legislation creates a new employee retention tax credit for employers to encourage businesses to keep workers on payroll during the crisis. importantly, house and senate democrats fixed a glaring flaw in the republican bill by adding important restrictions on the federal loan assistance for larger businesses, including a prohibition on excessive executive compensation and stock buybacks and a requirement that the businesses keep workers employed. we also set up an independent inspector general and congressional oversight panel to closely monitor this program, a marked improvement to the no-strings attached bailout we saw in 2008. while i still have strong concerns about how the trump administration will administer this program, i am committed to closely monitoring the program and working with my colleagues to add even more restrictions in future legislation. this crisis is of course a health crisis, and this bill includes hundreds of billions of dollars in funding to support america's healthcare system. in particular, the bill creates a $100 billion fund for hospitals and providers hit hardest by the outbreak. these funds can be used to purchase personal protective equipment for health workers, testing supplies, additional equipment to deal with a surge of severely ill patients, and other necessities that hospitals desperately need. the cares act of 2020 also provides funding for our public health infrastructure, like community health centers, which are critical to our covid-19 response. i am also pleased that this legislation protects the integrity of our elections during this pandemic by providing resources to states to increase election accessibility, which could include voting by mail. i am working with speaker pelosi and chairperson lofgren to expand upon this language in the next coronavirus legislation to guarantee that every american can do what we do already in oregon--vote by mail. i also commend the important safeguards we have put in place so that no new money intended to help keep our country safe is diverted to building a wall on the southern border or used to further separate immigrant families. while this legislation provides more resources for healthcare workers and temporarily stabilizes parts of the economy, it is only one step congress must take. i urge my colleagues to join me in working on the next phase of our legislative response. any future package must have more resources for healthcare workers to effectively stop the spread of covid-19, additional funding for long-term economic certainty for workers and families, and actions to permanently strengthen the social safety net. we must do more to provide for safe and secure elections and must also address the climate crisis head on. i look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues and the people i represent to build on this legislation to do more of what is needed. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. speaker, i did not come to the u.s. house of representatives to vote for stimulus packages or bailouts. i did not come here to spend trillions of dollars or grow the size of government. however, the situation we are in today, in the united states and across the world, is different. we are not in this situation because we have come to the end of a business cycle. we are not here because mortgage lenders or wall street made bad decisions. we are here because our economy, with the help of regulatory and tax relief, was going strong, and we want to resume that strength when conditions permit. three million americans applied for unemployment benefits last week, not because the fundamentals of our economy changed, but because president trump, and governors and mayors across our country, asked them to stay home as much as possible for a while, to help protect their families, friends, and neighbors. we should all be proud of how well most americans have heeded that request. we owe americans the opportunity to resume their lives, return to their jobs, resume their education, keep their homes, and feed their families just as they were before this pandemic arrived, and this bill addresses many barriers to that happening. employers do not want to shut down and lay employees off. this bill will help many avoid having to. americans want to work and support their families. the short-term changes to unemployment help those who do not currently have that choice. this bill also ensures our commercial aviation system, including the contractors who support it, which were strong prior to this pandemic, can resume serving our nation, including its most rural parts, when this pandemic ends. hospitals want to be there for everyone in their community. provisions like the enhanced advance-pay assistance will help the 55 critical-access hospitals in nebraska keep their doors open as they pause addressing less immediate needs, and expanded telehealth availability will benefit rural americans even after this crisis is over. and provisions such as funding for the commodity credit corporation will help our ag producers get through this difficult time and continue to feed americans, who more than ever are understanding the complexity and reliability of our food production system, from farm to table. mr. speaker, this is not the bill any single one of us would have written on our own, but i will support it today because it is a strong compromise which provides our best available opportunity to help americans get through this difficult period and return to their jobs, schools, churches, friends, and regular daily lives in the shortest time possible. ms. brownley of california. mr. speaker, i am unable to vote on the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security (cares) act. had i been present, i would have voted aye. mr. ruiz. mr. speaker, i rise in support of the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act. the coronavirus has changed our lives. hospitals are being overwhelmed, businesses are closing, and the american people are anxious of getting covid-19 or losing a loved one to the disease. workers are asking: when will i be able to go back to work? how will i be able to pay my bills? small business owners are asking: can my business stay afloat? in my own community, california's 36th district, i have heard from single mothers who are worried about how they will pay their rent, workers who have been laid off and wondering how will they put food on their table, and small business owners who cannot afford to pay their employees or even their rent. that is why we must pass the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act immediately. the bipartisan cares act will help american families, workers, and businesses through this uncertain and tumultuous time by: providing $1200 in direct payments to individuals and $2400 for families, and $500 for every child; expanding unemployment insurance benefits to match the average paycheck of laid off or furloughed workers; providing $377 billion dollars in relief for small businesses; investing $200 billion in our hospitals, health care infrastructure, and research, among other things. [[page h1862]] by passing this bill, we are telling the small business owner that help is on the way. we are telling the health care workers that we support you. we are telling the single mother who is now unemployed that you are not alone, that we are fighting for you, and that together, we will get through this. the american people need a comprehensive, whole-of-government response to keep our nation safe. that is why i urge the house to immediately and unanimously pass the cares act to help fight the spread of the virus, provide financial security to american families and businesses, and ultimately, save lives. ms. craig. mr. speaker, i rise to recognize the small businesses and nonprofits that are experiencing tremendous impacts from the coronavirus right now. i have talked to dozens of small business owners, some of whom have taken out second mortgages to keep their businesses afloat and their employees paid. i have talked with many nonprofits in the second district, all of whom are feeling overextended but tirelessly showing up everyday to meet the needs of their communities. it is clear that small businesses are the economic engine in suburbs, rural towns and cities and nonprofits keep our neighborhoods strong. that is why i pushed for no interest, forgivable loans to get back to our districts as fast as possible. i am glad to see these loans included in the cares act. i believe supporting our local economic engines is something we can all agree on. i look forward to seeing this swiftly become law and get these resources to hard working minnesotans. ms. craig. mr. speaker, in minnesota and across the country, schools are closing and distance learning is being implemented. i led an effort with my colleagues rep. pete stauber from northern minnesota and rep. jared huffman from california to make sure our schools have the additional idea funding to support all their students, including those with special needs during this exceptionally difficult time. i am proud that the cares act includes $30 billion to support our students and educators--and that $13 billion of this is available to school districts and schools to make sure that students who have ieps get high quality education they would in school, in their homes. i urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting our teachers, paraprofessionals, and school administrators who are working tirelessly to continue to educate all students in our communities through equal access to quality education. mr. nunes. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of h.r. 748, the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act. the dire situation facing our nation's businesses today are not of their own creation. instead, businesses are endangered by the drastic actions taken by governments at the local, state, and federal level to combat the spread of the coronavirus. the stark truth is that without immediate government action to assist these hard-hit businesses, many of them will not survive the current crisis. we have already seen record unemployment claims during the coronavirus shutdown, and our nation cannot afford for businesses to continue to go under and millions of employees to lose their jobs, their livelihoods, and their ability to pay rent and make ends meet. the cares act will provide crucial assistance to keep businesses solvent during this emergency, keep people employed, and to help individuals and families struggling with these extraordinary circumstances. i regret that the democrats, from the beginning, have exploited this bill to try to ram through extraneous and partisan measures with no connection whatsoever to helping families and businesses overcome their current hardships. nevertheless, at a time when many americans are unsure how they will pay next month's rent and many american businesses are unsure how much longer they can last, this bill will provide vital support to the american economy. that is why i will vote for the cares act. mr. steil. mr. speaker, americans' health and american jobs are being attacked by an invisible virus. and this house is called to respond. families and workers across the nation desperately need our help. and they need it now. every american has to pay rent, pay their mortgage, and buy groceries. over the past week, i have heard stories of people struggling. a young mother concerned about losing her job while caring for her kids. a small gym owner concerned that she will have to lay off her eight employees. and a doctor concerned about the coming weeks and lack of space, supplies, and ventilators for patients. america is fighting on two fronts--a public health crisis and an economic crisis. on one side, we have a public health crisis. our nurses, doctors, and health professionals are on the front lines of this pandemic. their work is keeping thousands of americans safe, healthy, and alive. and on the other, we have the crippling economic impacts. businesses are shuttered and record numbers are becoming unemployed. families need relief now. while far from perfect, the cares act provides relief. we are ensuring that coronavirus testing is free and accessible for everyone. we are giving doctors, nurses, and hospitals supplies needed to keep themselves and their patients safe. we are protecting the paychecks of people working at places like restaurants and hotels. we are supporting states' efforts to address the pandemic. we are providing assistance to workers who lose their jobs due to the corona virus crisis. importantly, this bill continues to fix past mistakes made by this house. the cares act includes yet another fix to the poorly drafted medicaid language included in the original version of the second corona virus emergency response legislation. it is vital that we get this language right so states like wisconsin have the dollars we need to ensure health care is available to our most vulnerable populations. at times, this bill leaves much to be desired. i remain concerned about unnecessary provisions included in the bill. this exacerbates congress' unnecessary spending habits, including $25 million for a washington, d.c. theater. i am disappointed that no amendments were allowed to be added to this bill. however, the senate did its job. president trump continues to do his. now, the house must do ours. we cannot let the perfect be the enemy of the good. mr. emmer. mr. speaker, as we adopt the third installment of covid relief in one month, millions of americans are counting on congress to chart a course forward and lead the nation out of this crisis. today's vote delivers significant resources to the american people, our economy, and our nation's health care delivery system. the hundreds of billions of dollars included for our health providers, paired with a massive injection of economic assistance for our small businesses will give medical professionals and financial institutions the tools they need to help our nation weather this storm. unfortunately, this bill also spends millions of taxpayer dollars on programs unrelated to combating the coronavirus. efforts to fund pet projects and attempts to further a political agenda at a time like this are completely unacceptable, and i, like so many of my constituents, am disgusted and appalled with the partisan maneuvering that delayed passage of this legislation. the important relief included in this bill is now not only several days overdue, but it saddles future generations with an even larger federal debt burden they will be forced to grapple with, in the years to come, all because of ``politics as usual'' in washington. i supported today's relief package because i believe in the resolve of the american people and the resiliency of the american economy. i will continue to support the countless men and women working around the clock to provide lifesaving medical care, and i look forward to working with our community lenders and small businesses as they remind the world of just how dynamic they can be. by working together, we will overcome this crisis and reemerge a stronger and more prosperous nation. mr. long. mr. speaker, the seventh congressional district of missouri's economy has a significant dependence on seasonal outdoor amusement and entertainment including the ozark empire fair, the carnivals on the midways of county fairs, and the nation's favorite vacation spot, branson. these for profit and not for profit enterprises employ thousands of ozarkians, some year-round and the majority just in the season. branson in the missouri ozarks draws about nine million visitors a year, mainly during a nine-month season. from the world-famous silver dollar city to the celebrated country music venues and all attractions in between, including excellent bass fishing, world class golf, youth baseball tournaments, and endless outdoor adventures, branson is a premier destination in america. but these are not normal times. springfield, missouri is home to the international association of fairs and expositions (iafe). agricultural fairs--county fairs, state fairs and regional ag shows-- are deeply rooted in our heritage and history, with the mission to promote and advance agriculture, horticulture, domestic industry, with a focused emphasis on youth leadership development through competitions, education, and leadership opportunities. most fairs, a total of 2,092 in the us, also provide exceptional educational activities to help today's americans understand the importance of farming and the source of the food on their plate. fairs cannot function without a complex arrangement of carnival midway operations, food and beverage operations, livestock shows, exhibits and demonstrations. with nearly 300 fairs happening across america in july alone [[page h1863]] each year, it is impossible to reschedule a fair for a different time. according to the iafe, each year the operation of agricultural fairs results in $4.67 billion for the us economy and provides thousands of jobs. fairs and their carnival partners on the midway have been devastated by the cancellation of events thus far. iafe estimates a loss of revenue exceeding $1.4 billion to the fair and festival core organizations just for march through may. the outdoor amusement business association (oaba) represents some 200 carnivals, 15 circuses and hundreds of traveling food/game concessionaires in the united states. the vast majority of their members are small, family businesses, many in their third or more generation of ownership. the oaba estimates 350 carnival events have currently been closed through may i. based on historical attendance data and this estimated performance cancellations, the lost revenue to carnival operators is near $250 million. should the need for social distancing or total quarantine exist into the summer, the economic devastation will inevitably put these community organizations as well as many of the small businesses in the allied sectors out of business. thousands of jobs will be lost. because both the not-for-profit fair sector and the outdoor amusement business segment are unique subsets of our economic and commercial activities, we must ensure they are not excluded from any current or new sba programs and they are just as eligible for federal support from the new $500 billion fund provided to the treasury as any wall street traded company. ms. lofgren. mr. speaker, i rise in support of the bipartisan agreement reached on the senate amendment to h.r. 748, the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security (cares) act. this bill will provide immediate relief to my constituents in california's 19th district by providing direct cash payments to families, expanding unemployment, infusing $150 billion investment in our healthcare system, and supporting small businesses with hundreds of billions that will also ensure continued employment for america's workers. as one of the hardest hit communities in the country, we know that santa clara county cannot afford to wait any longer. our hospitals, health centers, and county health officials specifically need the healthcare investment immediately to add capacity, work toward universal testing, and procure more masks, gloves, and gowns to guarantee our healthcare workers have the appropriate protections to do their jobs safely and effectively. families in our community and around the country need immediate assistance in the form of direct cash payments and expanded unemployment insurance (ui). this week a record number of americans filed unemployment claims. they need this substantial expansion and reform of ui benefits, which includes a $600 increase in the weekly maximum benefit and coverage for self-employed and gig economy workers, like the thousands of tech industry workers in silicon valley. california small businesses need the $350 billion lifeline to help cover rent, mortgage, and utility payments and keep workers employed so that they can pick up where they left off when this crisis is over. in addition, the $10 billion for small business emergency grants will provide entrepreneurs and family-sustaining employers in santa clara county with more immediate assistance. the cares act also includes $25 billion for public transit agencies, like the santa clara valley transportation authority, to keep service running while keeping employees and passengers safe. an additional $3 billion dollars in grants will keep contracted workers employed at our nation's airports, including at san jose mineta international airport. this bill will provide much needed and awaited relief for american workers, families, small businesses, and healthcare systems, but it is apparent that more will need to be done. i will continue to work with my colleagues in the house and senate to address specific community needs in future legislation. ms. lofgren. mr. speaker, americans have voted during times of great strife in the past. they voted during the civil war, and in the shadow of world war ii. americans stand united to vote this year, as well. coronavirus must not impede our elections. some states are postponing primaries and planning for a large increase in absentee voting this november. state and local officials need time and adequate resources to ensure an orderly election. the senate amendment to h.r. 748, the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security (cares) act, provides $400 million to the election assistance commission to make grants that prevent, prepare for, and respond to the pandemic and the 2020 elections. the money will be provided as ``election security grants.'' although this is an important down payment and a first step, i am concerned that it falls short of what is necessary. by contrast, the house's take responsibility for workers and families act (h.r. 6379), which i coauthored, would have provided $4 billion in funding to states to carry out this year's elections. it would require officials to mail an absentee ballot to all registered voters during an emergency, including covid-19. the ballot would be provided with prepaid return postage and a self-sealing envelope. it would set a minimum nationwide standard of 15 consecutive days of early voting and no-excuse absentee voting. the house bill would also require online voter registration and same-day registration--important solutions to cover voters who may have been wrongfully purged or otherwise unregistered. there is more to do to protect our democracy and bolster its resilience. the house's package provides those milestones. i will continue to work with my house and senate colleagues to address election preparedness in future legislation to respond to this pandemic. ms. foxx of north carolina. mr. speaker, time is of the essence. our country has been upended by covid-19. businesses have shuttered their doors, families sitting around their kitchen tables are struggling to make ends meet, our healthcare workers are stretched thin, and our economy has been hurt. yet, earlier this week, some of my colleagues across the aisle attempted to commandeer negotiations to advance socialist provisions that are antithetical to combatting covid-19. now is not the time for political showmanship. the eyes of our nation are affixed to congress, and it is our solemn duty to protect the american people. to our nation's deeply committed healthcare workers who put their lives on the line to treat and protect patients, our nation's truck drivers who deliver food and critical supplies to grocery stores and businesses, manufacturers who have stepped up to the plate to produce ppe's and other essential equipment, and our steadfast police officers and first responders on the front lines of this crisis, we truly owe you a debt of gratitude. may god bless you all. mr. wilson of south carolina. mr. speaker, during a time when our nation is facing an unprecedented crisis, i am grateful to join president donald trump in supporting the cares act to provide american families recovery from the coronavirus. even though i am not completely happy with every aspect of this bill, it does addresses multiple parts of our economy, specifically, it expedites resources to healthcare providers and patients, supports small businesses, to keep jobs alive, and provides direct assistance to american families. to fast track a national recovery, i ask that we all do our part in stopping the spread of the coronavirus by following the center for disease control's guidelines. the health and safety of our nation is the top priority, i am confident we will push through and come out of this crisis stronger than ever. mr. latta. mr. speaker, i include in the record this statement of intent on data required for general recognition of safety and effectiveness. the otc drug monograph reform legislation requires that nonprescription drugs be shown to be generally recognized as safe and effective. this standard of general recognition is based on statutory language that has been in the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act since its enactment in 1938, and it was incorporated in the regulations issued by the food and drug administration when the otc drug review was established in 1972. in particular, 21 cfr 330.10(a)(4)(i) states that: . . . proof of safety shall consist of adequate tests by methods reasonably applicable to show the drug is safe under the prescribed, recommended, or suggested conditions of use. this proof shall include results of significant human experience during marketing. general recognition of safety shall ordinarily be based upon published studies which may be corroborated by unpublished studies and other data. similarly, 21 cfr 330.10(a)(4)(ii) states that: . . . proof of effectiveness shall consist of controlled clinical investigations as defined in sec. 314.126(b) of this chapter, unless this requirement has been waived on the basis of a showing that it is not reasonably applicable to the drug or essential to the validity of the investigation and that an alternative method of investigation is adequate to substantiate effectiveness. investigations may be corroborated by partially controlled or uncontrolled studies, documented clinical trials by qualified experts, and reports of significant human experience during marketing. isolated case reports, random experience, and reports lacking the details which permit scientific investigation will not be considered. general recognition shall ordinarily be based upon published studies which may be corroborated by unpublished studies and other data. these regulations clearly recognize the importance of what is now termed ``real world evidence,'' including experience from marketing, in determining general recognition of [[page h1864]] safety and effectiveness. in addition, they recognize that results of clinical studies supporting general recognition of safety and effectiveness will in most instances be contained in the published scientific literature. such publications seldom, if ever, contain the same level of detail as the clinical study reports and data tabulations submitted in support of new drug applications, but it has long been understood that they may form the basis for determinations of general recognition of safety and effectiveness under the otc monograph system. finally, the regulations clearly permit determinations of general recognition of safety and effectiveness to be based on sources of information other than the published scientific literature, including, for example, unpublished data from studies carried out by federal government agencies or other competent bodies which are made available to the fda in the process of administering the otc monograph system. it is our intent that the fda should continue to apply these standards in making determinations of general recognition of safety and effectiveness under the monograph reform legislation. statement of intent as to minor changes provision under current law, dosage forms for monograph otc drugs have largely been limited to the technology in use in 1972, when the otc drug review began. the only mechanism for introducing truly innovative dosage forms has been through the new drug application (nda) process, which entails disproportionate costs and delays. this has proved to be a significant hurdle to use of new technologies that could offer consumers greater convenience and choice in otc drug products. the legislation creates two new procedures for introducing innovative dosage forms for monograph otc drugs that would not otherwise be permitted under subsection (b). first, sponsors may initiate proceedings for the issuance of administrative orders under subsection (c) to provide for use of novel dosage forms. second, in appropriate cases, sponsors may make minor changes in dosage forms without prior approval from fda, using the procedure in subsection (d). the sponsor must maintain information necessary to demonstrate that the change will not affect the safety or effectiveness of the drug or materially affect the extent of absorption or other exposure to the drug in comparison to a suitable reference product. the sponsor must also submit updated drug listing information to fda within 30 days of introducing the new product to the market. fda will have the right to demand access to the relevant files, and there will be a quick and simple procedure to resolve any disagreement between fda and the sponsor as to the adequacy of the data supporting the change. before the subsection (d) procedure takes effect, fda must issue administrative orders setting out the type of information required to support minor changes in dosage forms. in issuing those orders, fda will take account of standard procedures and practices for evaluating the quality of drug products, including applicable provisions of the united states pharmacopeia/national formulary, as well as special needs of populations, including children. the procedures in subsections (c) and (d) will only be required for changes that would not otherwise be permitted under subsection (b). thus, changes in excipients or other inactive ingredients and similar aspects of formulation of monograph otc drug products will be permitted without prior approval provided they are fully consistent with requirements of applicable monographs or administrative orders and with general requirements for monograph otc drugs, including, among other things, requirements for the use of suitable inactive ingredients which are safe in the amounts administered and do not interfere with the effectiveness of the preparation or with suitable tests or assays. when such changes are made, sponsors will be required to submit updated drug listing information to fda within 30 days of introducing a product to the market. usp and international conference on harmonization as sources for standards descriptions in minor changes administrative order with guidances by route of administration an important objective of this legislation is to create procedures that will promote innovation by permitting manufacturers to introduce certain new and improved dosage forms for nonprescription monograph drugs without the need for prior fda approval. manufacturers will be required to maintain files containing data showing that such changes will not affect the safety or effectiveness of their products and provide those files to fda on request. the bill directs fda to issue administrative orders and guidances describing the types of changes that can be made without prior approval and the data that manufacturers should have on file. subsection (d)(3)(b) requires that, in issuing such orders and guidances, fda should take account of relevant public standards for evaluating the quality of drug products. examples of the standards that fda should take into account include the monographs and other provisions of united states pharmacopeia/national formulary and guidelines issued by the international conference on harmonization of technical requirements for registration of pharmaceuticals for human use (ich). fda is a major stakeholder in both organizations, and it is appropriate that any administrative orders it adopts should take account of relevant requirements issued by them. labeling considerations under minor changes provision this bill establishes procedures under which fda can issue binding administrative orders setting forth the requirements under which nonprescription drugs will be regarded as generally recognized as safe and effective and may be lawfully marketed without an approved new drug application. it is intended that these orders will be similar in content to the monographs that fda has issued under the current procedures of the over-the-counter (otc) drug review. that is, they will contain provisions concerning active ingredients, dosages and dosage forms, and instructions for safe use of the products to which they apply and, where appropriate, other conditions required to assure safety and effectiveness. nonprescription drugs marketed under such orders must also comply with general requirements of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act and applicable fda regulations, including general requirements for labeling and quality. as is true under the current regulatory system, labels and labeling for nonprescription drugs may contain additional information, including brand names, promotional statements, and other information, provided that any such information is truthful and non-misleading. mr. hill of arkansas. mr. speaker, the health and economic crisis caused by covid-19 is unprecedented in our lifetimes. we are seeing the number of cases rise throughout the country, including in my home state of arkansas. after being in nearly constant communication with the arkansas governor's office, hospitals, first responders, and business leaders in arkansas, relief from the federal government is needed to help fight this virus and help keep our businesses from going under. it is for these reasons that if a roll call vote is called for the vote on the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act, i will vote yes. mr. flores. mr. speaker, i rise to state that if there is a recorded vote, i would vote: ``yea'' on h.r. 748, coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act, as amended. as referenced in my earlier remarks during the h.r. 748 debate, this legislation takes vital steps to send cash to struggling texas families, provide economic relief for small businesses and working americans, and give our healthcare providers more of the resources they need. the speaker pro tempore. all time for debate has expired. pursuant to house resolution 911, the previous question is ordered on the motion. the question is on adoption of the motion. the question was taken; and the speaker pro tempore announced that the ayes appeared to have it. recorded vote mr. massie. mr. speaker, i demand a recorded vote. a recorded vote was refused. mr. massie. mr. speaker, i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present. the speaker pro tempore. the chair will count for a quorum. a quorum is present. the motion to concur was agreed to. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. ____________________