[congressional record volume 165, number 170 (monday, october 28, 2019)] [house] [pages h8491-h8493] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] {time} 1630 preventing online sales of e-cigarettes to children act ms. bass. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 3942) to apply requirements relating to delivery sales of cigarettes to delivery sales of electronic nicotine delivery systems, and for other purposes, as amended. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 3942 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``preventing online sales of e-cigarettes to children act''. sec. 2. amendments to the jenkins act. (a) in general.--the act entitled ``an act to assist states in collecting sales and use taxes on cigarettes'', approved october 19, 1949 (commonly known as the ``jenkins act'') (15 u.s.c. 375 et seq.), is amended-- (1) in section 1 (15 u.s.c. 375)-- (a) in paragraph (2)(a)(ii)-- (i) by striking ``includes roll-your-own tobacco'' and inserting the following: ``includes-- ``(i) roll-your-own tobacco''; (ii) in subclause (i), as so designated, by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and (iii) by adding at the end the following: ``(ii) an electronic nicotine delivery system.''; (b) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through (14) as paragraphs (8) through (15), respectively; and (c) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following: ``(7) electronic nicotine delivery system.--the term `electronic nicotine delivery system'-- ``(a) means any electronic device that, through an aerosolized solution, delivers nicotine, flavor, or any other substance to the user inhaling from the device; ``(b) includes-- ``(i) an e-cigarette; ``(ii) an e-hookah; ``(iii) an e-cigar; ``(iv) a vape pen; ``(v) an advanced refillable personal vaporizer; ``(vi) an electronic pipe; and ``(vii) any component, liquid, part, or accessory of a device described in subparagraph (a), without regard to whether the component, liquid, part, or accessory is sold separately from the device; and ``(c) does not include a product that is-- ``(i) approved by the food and drug administration for-- ``(i) sale as a tobacco cessation product; or ``(ii) any other therapeutic purpose; and ``(ii) marketed and sold solely for a purpose described in clause (i).''; and (2) in section 2a(b)(1) (15 u.s.c. 376a(b)(1)), by inserting ``nicotine/'' after ``cigarettes/''. (b) effective date.--this section, and the amendments made by this section, shall take effect on the date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this act. sec. 3. nonmailability of electronic nicotine delivery systems. (a) regulations.--not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this act, the united states postal service shall promulgate regulations to clarify the applicability of the prohibition on mailing of cigarettes under section 1716e of title 18, united states code, to electronic nicotine delivery systems, in accordance with the amendment to the definition of ``cigarette'' made by section 2. (b) effective date.--the prohibition on mailing of cigarettes under section 1716e of title 18, united states code, shall apply to electronic nicotine delivery systems on and after the date on which the united states postal service promulgates regulations under subsection (a) of this section. sec. 4. determination of budgetary effects. the budgetary effects of this act, for the purpose of complying with the statutory pay-as-you-go act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled ``budgetary effects of paygo legislation'' for this act, submitted for printing in the congressional record by the chairman of the house budget committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentlewoman from california (ms. bass) and the gentleman from north dakota (mr. armstrong) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from california. general leave ms. bass. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on the bill under consideration. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentlewoman from california? there was no objection. [[page h8492]] ms. bass. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, h.r. 3942, the preventing online sales of e-cigarettes to children act, is an important bill to protect our young people. i applaud the gentlewoman from connecticut (ms. delauro) for taking the lead on this issue and introducing this bipartisan legislation. this bill addresses a very serious public health crisis in our country, one which is tragically affecting our children. since last summer, a mysterious and severe pulmonary disease associated with the use of e-cigarettes and the practice of vaping has sickened over 1,000 mostly young and otherwise healthy people, 18 of whom have died. public health advocates place the blame for this crisis on the aggressive marketing of vaping products that appeal to kids, including e-liquids with fruit, bubble gum, or even cotton candy flavors in packaging that features superhero or cartoon characters. advocates also cite the mushrooming popularity of usb flash drive-like e-cigarettes, which have a high nicotine content, appealing flavors, and can easily be concealed. evidence of the attractiveness of these products to young people is reflected in some staggering statistics. according to the 2018 national youth tobacco survey, between 2017 and 2018 there was a 78 percent increase in e-cigarette use among high school students and a 48 percent increase among middle school students. h.r. 3942 will play an important role in addressing this crisis. congress regulates the sales of tobacco products via interstate shipment through the 1949 jenkins act. in 2010, congress extended the jenkins act to regulate delivery sales of tobacco products over the internet through the prevent all cigarette trafficking act, or pact act. among other things, the pact act curbed internet sales of cigarettes to underage people by encouraging and requiring that delivery agents check identification in person when the product is delivered. h.r. 3942 amends current law to curb online sales of e-cigarettes to minors. it amends the definition of ``cigarette'' to extend to any electronic nicotine delivery system, which includes e-cigarettes, vape pens, and other electronic devices. a violation of the provisions of the jenkins act is a federal felony, punishable by up to 3 years in prison. amending current law to extend these protections to e-cigarettes is the right thing to do. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important bill, and i reserve the balance of my time. house of representatives, committee on oversight and reform, washington, dc, october 28, 2019. hon. jerrold nadler, chairman, committee on the judiciary, house of representatives, washington, dc. dear mr. chairman: i am writing to you concerning h.r. 3942, the preventing online sales of e-cigarettes to children act. there are certain provisions in the legislation which fall within the rule x jurisdiction of the committee on oversight and reform. in the interest of permitting your committee to proceed expeditiously on this bill, i am willing to waive this committee's right to sequential referral. i do so with the understanding that by waiving consideration of the bill, the committee on oversight and reform does not waive any future jurisdictional claim over the subject matters contained in the bill which fall within its rule x jurisdiction. i request that you urge the speaker to name members of this committee to any conference committee which is named to consider such provisions. please place this letter into the congressional record during consideration of the measure on the house floor. thank you for the cooperative spirit in which you have worked regarding this matter and others between our respective committees. sincerely, carolyn b. maloney, acting chairwoman. mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of h.r. 3942, the preventing online sales of e-cigarettes to children act. this bill can be summarized in this way: if minors cannot buy e- cigarettes in a store, they should not be able to buy e-cigarettes online. today, anyone who purchases alcohol or tobacco at a brick-and-mortar retail store is subject to age verification requirements. online retailers of alcohol must also verify a purchaser's age to ensure the sales comply with state and federal law. however, online retailers of e-cigarettes are exempted from verifying the age of their customers. when the pact act was passed in 2010, it did a great job of curbing youth smoking. unfortunately, e-cigarettes were not in existence yet. this loophole exists at a time when youth vaping is at epidemic levels. today, one in five high school students is using e-cigarettes. kids can have e-cigarettes delivered right to their door without requiring an adult signature. teen vaping rates have doubled since 2017, and over 3 million minors used e-cigarettes last year. the lack of age verification requirements is hurting kids. the preventing online sales of e-cigarettes to children act would require age verification upon delivery of online purchases of e- cigarettes and other vapor products. it closes the online delivery loophole and will prevent the underage purchase of e-cigarettes online. this bill has a broad coalition of support. i thank representative rosa delauro for her partnership on this legislation to protect the next generation, as well as house judiciary committee ranking member doug collins. this bill also has bipartisan support in the senate, with senators dianne feinstein, john cornyn, and chris van hollen all on board. patient advocacy organizations like the american cancer society cancer action network and the american lung association also support this legislation. business and trade associations like the national association of convenience stores, the petroleum marketer association of america, and the convenience distribution association all also support this bill. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. bass. mr. speaker, i notice that there are a number of young people who are in the gallery, so i am hoping that they pay close attention to this debate since it is all about you guys. the speaker pro tempore. the chair would remind members to avoid referencing occupants of the gallery. ms. bass. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from florida (ms. mucarsel-powell). ms. mucarsel-powell. mr. speaker, today i rise in support of h.r. 3942, the preventing online sales of e-cigarettes to children act. the spread of e-cigarettes is a public health crisis. i have had multiple conversations with parents who are seeing their children become addicted to tobacco products, and, as a mom, i refuse to stand idly by as a new generation of children become addicted to this substance. we have seen multiple deaths from the use of vaping products and several hundred lung disease cases in florida alone. approximately 5,600 kids in florida are becoming new daily smokers each year. this is affecting children regardless of zip code or income level. for years, e-cigarette companies have targeted our children using specialty flavors like cotton candy and made their products easy to purchase online without any age verification. we have the responsibility to do everything we can to keep this addictive substance out of the hands of our kids, including requiring online and in-person verification for e-cigarette purchases. the health of our nation's children is at risk because of e- cigarettes and vaping products. the time to act is now. mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. bass. mr. speaker, h.r. 3942 is an important measure to address a threat to the health of our children and young people. for the reasons discussed here today, i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bipartisan legislation, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, i have a 12-year-old daughter; i have a 9-year-old son. there are schools across the country that are removing doors on bathroom stalls and banning hoodies. teen vaping and youth vaping is a real [[page h8493]] issue. this bill is a small step forward to start canceling that. at its simplest, this bill works to modernize federal law to treat e- cigarettes the same as any other nicotine product, and that is a good thing. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. bass. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this bipartisan legislation, and i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentlewoman from california (ms. bass) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 3942, as amended. the question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. ____________________