[congressional record volume 170, number 108 (thursday, june 27, 2024)] [house] [pages h4354-h4389] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] department of defense appropriations act, 2025 general leave mr. calvert. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to include extraneous material on h.r. 8774, and that i may include tabular material on the same. the speaker pro tempore (mr. ellzey). is there objection to the request of the gentleman from california? there was no objection. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to house resolution 1316 and rule xviii, the chair declares the house in the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the consideration of the bill, h.r. 8774. the chair appoints the gentleman from north dakota (mr. armstrong) to preside over the committee of the whole. {time} 1304 in the committee of the whole accordingly, the house resolved itself into the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the consideration of the bill (h.r. 8774) making appropriations for the department of defense for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2025, and for other purposes, with mr. armstrong in the chair. the clerk read the title of the bill. the chair. pursuant to the rule, the bill is considered read the first time. general debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 1 hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on appropriations. the gentleman from california (mr. calvert) and the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. mccollum) each will control 30 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from california. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i rise today to offer h.r. 8774, the 2025 department of defense appropriations act. i want to start by thanking chairman cole for his leadership in this process. i also thank the defense subcommittee ranking member, ms. mccollum, for her friendship and partnership through this. finally, i thank the defense subcommittee staff for their tireless work on this year's bill. h.r. 8774 provides $833 billion for the department of defense and the intelligence community. consistent with the fiscal responsibility act, this is 1 percent, or $8.5 billion, above fiscal year 2024 enacted levels. while $833 billion is the discretionary cap, the subcommittee has little discretion over 62 percent of this bill. the funding goes toward must-pay bills, including troop and civilian pay; military benefits, medical care, and family services; sustainment of current weapons systems; fuel, utilities, it, basic supplies; and training and education. this is to say nothing of necessary investments in major weapons systems to keep our military dominant in an intensifying threat environment. these factors are why i believe the current defense top line is too low for today's needs. present and emerging threats mandate a robust u.s. military, which, as former secretary of defense james mattis said, requires at least 3 to 5 percent real growth above inflation. finally, due to the decision to consolidate our defense industry over 30 years ago, america's defense industrial base is brittle and unable to mobilize without significant investment. while the defense allocation under the fra is too low to meet america's national security needs, it is the law of the land. this bill is written to be consistent with this law. [[page h4355]] today's threats mandate a resolute united states made credible with a capable, lethal, and ready military. the appropriations defense subcommittee scrutinized the fiscal year 2025 budget request line by line and conducted rigorous oversight. this resulted in $18 billion in cuts of requests that were unnecessary or unjustified. this bill provides no blank checks. instead, this bill builds on the priorities from fiscal year 2024. these include prioritizing the fight against china, promoting innovation and modernization, supporting our servicemembers and their families, optimizing the pentagon's civilian workforce, increasing the department's role in countering the flow of illicit fentanyl and synthetic opioids, supporting america's close ally, israel, and ensuring the department focuses on its core mission of training and equipping our warfighters and not culture wars. time is not on our side. president xi is planning to invade taiwan potentially by 2027, if not sooner. the only way to prevent chinese aggression is by fielding and operating capabilities that demonstrate america's military advantage. to this end, the bill increases investments in fifth- and sixth- generation aircraft, procures deliverable capability including several indopacom unfunded priorities. it prohibits the divestment of certain naval and air assets that are still combat-credible. it provides $200 million for taiwan security cooperation programs while prioritizing defense articles and services to the threatened island. the bill also continues investments in the reawakening and acceleration of american defense innovation. our defense industrial base is fragile, and competition is stifled. almost every major defense acquisition program is plagued by persistent inflation, an aging workforce, costly infrastructure, weak supply chains, overly optimistic schedules, unrealistic budgets, and ultimately overpromised results. we can trace this back to then-secretary of defense aspin's defense contractor version of the last supper back in 1993 when the defense industrial base consolidated from two dozen defense prime contractors to the five that we have today. the consequences of this decision mandate action, which must be achieved through an innovation intervention. america's legacy of innovation and entrepreneurs gives us an asymmetric advantage our competitors could never replicate. this bill seeks to tap into that opportunity with over $1.3 billion for the department of defense innovation unit and related innovation efforts, including $400 million for the highly successful apfit program. modern and innovative practices are needed in more than just our defense capability. the pentagon workforce and business practices also need to enter into the 21st century. this bill cuts $916 million in unjustified civilian workforce requests and finds more efficient ways to do business. recognizing the national security threat posed by china's supply of fentanyl-based chemicals to mexican drug cartels, this bill maintains high levels of funding for dod's drug interdiction and counterdrug activities with $1.14 billion. this includes an increase for the national guard counterdrug program and the national guard youth challenge program, empowering states to take a more active role in the defense of their communities from our number one foreign adversary. this bill also transfers mexico from northcom to southcom for improved coordination and prioritization. as i mentioned at the outset, this bill focuses the department on its warfighting mission. the bill includes multiple general provisions from the house fiscal year 2024 bill that pivot the pentagon away from divisive partisan policies and toward military readiness. finally, underpinning all of these priorities funded in the bill is the imperative to support our servicemembers and their families. the bill includes a 4.5 percent pay raise for all military personnel plus $2.5 billion toward an additional 15 percent pay raise for junior enlisted servicemembers. this will have a positive effect on recruitment and retention and will improve the quality of life for our servicemembers and their families serving with them. i am proud of this year's defense appropriations bill, which adheres to the fiscal year constraints while providing a strong military to defend america, our allies, and our partners. this bill procures where we can, trains where we must, and invests in capability that will make our adversaries wake up every day and say: today is not the day to provoke the united states of america. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support this bill, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i rise today in opposition to h.r. 8774, the department of defense appropriations act, 2025, but i want to start by recognizing the outstanding work of the staff: jennifer chartrand and jason gray on the minority side here with me, ben peterson and my defense fellow, patrick carr, in my personal office. i also acknowledge the great work of the majority staff, with a big shout-out to johnnie kaberle. i thank them for their hard work. i thank chairman calvert as well for his leadership on the subcommittee and for his warm friendship. i recognize three members particularly because this will be their last defense bill. first and foremost is chairwoman kay granger, the very first woman to lead this subcommittee, and on my side of the aisle are dutch ruppersberger and derek kilmer. we will miss them greatly. i thank each and every one of them for their years of work on our subcommittee and for their commitment to america's national security. turning to the bill, the fiscal year 2025 defense appropriations act totals $833 billion, slightly over president biden's budget request. i appreciate that the bill conforms to the fiscal responsibility act, however, i do have deep concerns with this bill on how it will impact our military's readiness and unit cohesion. to honor the sacrifice of those who have fought for freedom, we need to foster a climate in our military that appreciates and supports all americans who choose to take the oath to serve. unfortunately, at this time, this bill does not reflect that sentiment. in 1948, in a speech to the british house of commons, winston churchill said: ``those that fail to learn from history are doomed to repeat it.'' the bill before us repeats the same mistakes as the fy24 house proposal. once again, this bill includes partisan social riders that led to continuing resolutions spanning over 5 months of this fiscal year. all these riders were just rejected in the fy24 conference committee agreement we passed in march. {time} 1315 now, we all understand we are in a new geopolitical era where our nation faces grave threats that we must respond to swiftly, but once again, the majority has included riders that they know will not become law. this will only serve to repeat a process that nearly ended in a full-year continuing resolution. if that is not enough, there are provisions in this bill that are simply outside the jurisdiction of the defense subcommittee. that includes prohibiting funds for the united nations relief and works agency, an organization the department of defense has never funded, or a provision related to the irs tax treatment of individuals who hold a belief that marriage is a union between one man and one woman only. these provisions, and some of the amendments yet to be considered, are just not germane to this bill. this subcommittee, i believe, must stop wasting valuable time on issues outside of our jurisdiction because our national security cannot afford to waste another 5 months as we did last year. these provisions, again, only create division in congress, which will impact our armed forces. i will address a few of them. this bill, once again, prohibits the department of defense's policy to ensure that servicemembers and their families have access to leave and travel allowances for basic reproductive healthcare. i am extremely disappointed that the rules committee failed to make my amendment in order, which would have struck down this outrageous provision from the bill. we know that the department's policy is legal under federal law. the justice department has [[page h4356]] concluded that fact. in fact, the department of justice stated: ``the department of defense may lawfully expend funds to pay for servicemembers and their dependents to travel to obtain abortions that dod cannot itself perform due to statutory requirements.'' the statutory requirement that they are talking about is the hyde amendment, mr. chair. to be clear, i do not support the hyde amendment. like last year, i think it is important to address it and for america to understand what the provision in this bill does to the services that would be legally provided under the hyde amendment. hyde prohibits the dod from using funds or facilities to perform abortions except in the case of rape, incest, or when the life of the mother is in danger. eighteen states have enacted total or 6-week abortion bans. some of these states do not even have an exception for rape or for incest. this bill interprets the hyde amendment in a way that it was never intended. if your assigned duty station is one of these 18 states, you have no access to the hyde amendment exceptions. you must travel for your healthcare, and you are entitled to do that. those living in the 18 states comprise 80,000 servicewomen and 170,000 spouses. that is a total of 250,000 women in military communities without access to reproductive healthcare. this language is a de facto national abortion ban for women who serve alongside and in the military. women will exit the force because of this. husbands and fathers will not want to serve in states where their families could be negatively impacted. i only wish the majority would have had the courage to bring my amendment to the floor. our servicemembers and their families deserve that debate. once again, there are provisions in this bill that disenfranchise lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender servicemembers, rather than making our military a welcoming and inclusive place for all of those who wish to serve this country. there are approximately 79,000 lgbtq+ americans that serve in our armed forces, yet these provisions included in this bill needlessly attack the inclusion efforts and the diversity efforts by the department. our military is the only institution in our country that most broadly reflects the entire american population, and that includes over one- third of active-duty servicemembers who identify with a minority group. we know we are facing recruitment challenges in the service, but we did hear from the army and the navy this year that they are seeing improvements in their recruitment numbers. that is great news. why would this congress want to include provisions that might dissuade any american, regardless of their background, from taking the oath of service? beyond the contentious social policies, there are other elements of this bill i cannot support. first, the bill continues to treat climate change as if it is not happening and it is not a national security threat. we know for a fact that it is. we have seen the impacts of severe weather events on installations year after year. just look at guam as a recent example. over $50 billion in repairs will be needed for the installations on guam which were damaged by a typhoon last year. with all of the military construction funding going to guam, the infrastructure vulnerability on this island is very clear, and we must address it. then there is alaska. alaska continues to experience melting permafrost, which damages runways and radar stations all across the state. we are spending sustainment and research dollars to protect these installations in the best way we can. by cutting climate programs, we harm resiliency, and, mr. chair, we are going to pay for it on the back end. second, the bill cuts the security funding for the ukraine security assistance initiative. i recently met with president zelenskyy, and he expressed how grateful the ukrainian people were that the united states had finally delivered additional ammunition to help ukraine repel putin's invasion. we know this bill should include the long-term assistance that ukraine needs. this funding has been in the base bill, in fact, since 2016. the funding that we put in the base bill signals that the west stands with them in their fight for their own self-determination. it is assistance that will continue to enhance ukraine's military ability to work with nato forces. failure to continue funding that has been a longstanding, bipartisan initiative to support ukraine sends a terrible signal that will only embolden putin. third, the bill again limits the ability of our government to address disinformation. our foreign adversaries use social media to spread disinformation here at home in the united states. just look at what russia did leading up to the invasion in ukraine. russia used social media to spread harmful lies about nonexistent ukrainian-american chemical and biological weapons programs. none of it was true. none of it existed. what was true is that russia had an active chemical weapons program of their own. they were in violation of the international obligations under the chemical weapons convention. this bill deprives the department of their responsibility to set the facts straight. it would let bad actors like russia continue to spread disinformation unchallenged, and that is downright dangerous. mr. chair, regrettably, at this time i will be unable to vote for passage of this bill, and i cannot recommend to my colleagues that they support it. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from texas (mr. ellzey), a member of the defense subcommittee. mr. ellzey. mr. chair, today, i rise in strong support of this bill as a member of the defense appropriations subcommittee. i commend chairman calvert and his team behind us for legislation that makes investments in our national defense. this bill invests in technology, innovation, and people with an eye on tomorrow while sustaining today's important platforms, such as the f-35 strike fighter. if we prioritize social issues over lethality, our enemies will take note. our colleagues across the aisle seem to prioritize shaking a fist at mother nature over standing strong against our enemies. make no mistake: this bill comes at a time of global conflict. today seems a lot more like june 1938 than june 2024. in the middle east, iran is sponsoring houthis to shut down commerce in the red sea, which directly affects prices here at home. they are sponsoring, training, funding, and directing hamas and hezbollah in conflict with our good friends in israel. on the european continent, for the first time since world war ii and the formation of both nato and the u.n., russia's full-scale invasion of ukraine foreshadows more imperial expansion and the desire to reconstitute the soviet union. on the korean peninsula, we are technically still at war. finally, china is waging cyber warfare and chemical warfare here in our own homes and on our own border. through the proliferation of fentanyl, all of the compounds which come from china, they are killing our future cops, teachers, servicemembers, and welders at numbers not seen since world war ii, to the tune of 300 americans every day. they aspire to control the entire south china sea, the maritime highway for one-third of the world's commerce. if they shut that down, imagine what happens to prices here at home and indeed world trade. with a jealous eye on taiwan, they are watching our every move to understand how the u.s. responds, or more importantly does not respond, to unprovoked attacks on our allies. this bill counters those threats in a sensible way, and that is why i am proud to support it. the chair. the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i yield an additional 30 seconds to the gentleman from texas. mr. ellzey. mr. chair, it contains important investments that i supported in satellite technology, advanced manufacturing, autonomous air and surface vehicles, tankers and fighting aircraft, cutting-edge software, and advanced projectiles. [[page h4357]] i am proud of the work of the appropriations committee. through this bill, we will maintain our edge and we will win, if necessary. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i yield 6 minutes to the gentlewoman from connecticut (ms. delauro), the distinguished ranking member of the appropriations committee, who is a great mentor. ms. delauro. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to the republican majority's defense appropriations bill. first, i would also like to thank the majority and minority staff, particularly jennifer chartrand and jason gray for their efforts, and i extend my deep thanks to chairman calvert and ranking member mccollum for their work on this bill. unfortunately, i cannot support this bill at this time. with this bill, congress has the unique and solemn responsibility of appropriating the funds necessary to defend and to protect our nation. i come from a defense-dependent state. i understand the importance of making investments and the kinds of investments we make in this bill, but this bill still does not advance our national defense capabilities. there is a path laid out for us to responsibly strengthen america's national security and support our armed servicemembers. instead, under the majority's partisan process, we are considering a bill that promotes chaos in congress over prioritizing our national security, which sows division instead of supporting our servicemembers' morale and unity. this bill undermines democracy here and around the world, and it disarms our military in the face of the climate crisis. especially in an election year, we should not consider legislation that would neutralize the department of defense's ability to counter disinformation campaigns when we know foreign actors and our adversaries are seeking to meddle in our elections and our democratic processes. why, after this congress has repeatedly demonstrated broad bipartisan support for ukraine in its fight against russian tyranny, are we considering a bill that fails to fund the ukraine security assistance initiative, rewarding russia? in addition to fighting russian aggression, usai helps ukraine integrate with nato and western forces, directly supporting our broader national security and defense objectives. recklessly, this bill ignores our military leaders. even under president trump, our military acknowledged and warned about the dangers of climate change, what it poses to our national security, our military assets, and our servicemembers around the world. secretary mattis said in testimony to the senate armed services committee: ``climate change is impacting stability in areas of the world where our troops are operating today. it is appropriate for the combatant commands to incorporate drivers of instability that impact the security environment in their areas into their planning.'' {time} 1330 we ought to be ensuring our military's readiness and adaptability in the face of a changing climate and worsening disasters, not denying the scientific and strategic reality of the threats that we face. finally, this bill contains a laundry list of partisan proposals that divide americans and divide the congress, including provisions that hurt women and lgbtq+ servicemembers and obstruct diversity efforts. it furthers republicans' goal of making abortion illegal nationally by making it harder for women in our military to obtain reproductive care. no woman deserves to have her healthcare and family planning decisions made by politicians, but especially those who have put their lives on the line to protect americans' rights and freedoms. every servicemember who wears our nation's flag is a critical piece of our national defense. american servicemembers come from all over the country and the world. the sum of their skills, their determination, their experiences, and their perspectives is the greatest asset our military has. fostering an environment where every american, who would willingly put their lives on the line to protect and serve this nation, feels that they are welcome and supported should not be controversial. these policy riders do not belong in appropriations bills, and like last year, we will defeat them, but it is disappointing that we are going through this charade again just months after republicans and democrats voted for the 2024 appropriations bills. looking across all 12 appropriations bills, the majority is failing to meet the agreement signed into law. the democrats will accept nothing less than a 1 percent increase over 2024 in defense and nondefense funding. that is what the law provides for. i cannot support this bill. i urge my colleagues to focus on the end goal of funding our government and preserving america's military strength rather than pushing messaging bills that have no future. please join us at the table to protect our national security and our military readiness. it is time to govern. mr. calvert. mr. chairman, i yield to the gentlewoman from missouri (mrs. wagner) for the purpose of engaging in a colloquy. mrs. wagner. mr. chairman, i thank the chairman very, very much for engaging me in this colloquy and for his work on this very important piece of legislation. last year's national defense authorization act, which passed on an overwhelmingly bipartisan basis, expressed serious concern that our nation's tactical fighter capacity is not sufficient to meet combatant commander warfighting requirements. yet, the air force is proposing the premature closure of one of the united states' two major fighter manufacturing lines, the f-15ex. the f-15ex is a critical asset, particularly for the national guard. the national guard's unfunded priorities list included a request for additional ex production. if this line shuts down in the fiscal year 2025, as proposed in the president's budget, the u.s. will be down to a single tactical aviation manufacturing line, and this is unacceptably risky. over 44 members of congress, republicans and democrats, supported the additional funding to keep the important f-15ex program going. i understand that top-line constraints this year present tough challenges, mr. chairman, but this manufacturing line is in my home state of missouri, and it is a strategic asset and a national security imperative. may i have your commitment, sir, to work with me on the issue as the process continues? mr. calvert. this committee recognizes the importance and the role of the f-15ex. i thank the gentlewoman from missouri for raising this issue, and i look forward to working with her as we move forward with this bill. mrs. wagner. i thank the chairman for agreeing to work with me on this critically important issue and for his leadership on this legislation and in so many other important things that come before this body. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from hawaii (mr. case). mr. case. mr. chairman, i rise in opposition to this measure as currently drafted. i do so with true regret because hidden inside all of the rhetoric and surplusage of this measure as drafted is, in fact, the foundation of a solid and responsible bill to fund our national defense as our chair and ranking member have both highlighted. this is very regrettable overall since our national defense funding measure has largely escaped these diversions and focused on national defense. however, instead, we have before us today, in reality, a proposal that is crippled by avoidance of inconvenient realities, sacrifice of long-term goals for short-term expediency, pandering to extreme viewpoints, and to my friend and colleague, the chair's comments in opening statements, too narrow, i believe, a definition of warfighting and military readiness. especially telling in all of this is that in virtually all of these categories, our military disagrees with the deletions, with the cuts, and with the initiatives. our military has a broader view. our military, i believe, does have the proper perspective on the panoply of efforts that are required for true warfighting and military readiness. [[page h4358]] there are many, many examples. we are going to hear about them. we already have. we are debating them in amendments, but i want to highlight two that are perhaps small in the big picture but that i think illustrate exactly what the issue is that we face with this particular measure. first of all, i would highlight environmental remediation. our military is, obviously, out there in our country and in our world, and their activities have consequences to our environment. they are charged with avoiding those consequences and with remediating where there are consequences. yet, this particular bill would slash the environmental remediation and restoration activities budget, which is a small part in the big picture of the defense department's budget, by somewhere around 10 percent. this is of great concern to all of us because this is part of warfighting and military readiness. i would just cite a small example of this to make the point. in my home state of hawaii, a major center of our military activities on the island of maui, on the top of mount haleakala, the largest mountain, there is an effort by the u.s. space force to build seven small telescopes that are critical to the national defense, as anybody who knows this knows. in the vicinity is an air force facility at which there was a fuel spill. that fuel spill is being remediated by the air force right now. it is critical. the air force is committed to remediating it. it obviously needs the funding to do so. whether the military, through the air force, does, in fact, remediate fully, fairly, and completely is a major issue to the community in whether they will support critically important space force telescopes. there is, obviously, a direct line in terms of the efforts to remediate to a national security interest, which i think we would all agree is truly in the range of military readiness. another small example is the readiness and environmental protection integration program, or repi, which includes the acquisition of real property interest in land from willing landowners to prevent development and encroachment around our military facilities. it fulfills the military's own desire to protect native habitat and improve our military installation resilience to climate change and extreme weather. this program is also the subject of the budget cutting knife under this program. the military wants repi. they realize the benefit of repi to their military readiness, to their warfighting capability. these, again, are very, very small examples, but i hope that they illustrate the basic point that when we take a look at the larger defense budget, if we allow ourselves to get distracted, to exercise on denial tendencies, to focus on the short term without contemplating the long term, by taking extreme viewpoints into these areas, and, again, by constructing too narrow a definition of warfighting and military readiness, then we are going to miss the mark on this defense budget. mr. chair, i believe in this draft we, unfortunately, have. luckily we are early in this process. i think there is plenty of room for us to debate and discuss these issues. i very much hope that we correct these deficiencies and that we produce a bill, as i hope and believe we have in the past and will again, that i can support. mr. calvert. mr. chairman, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from louisiana (mr. higgins). mr. higgins of louisiana. mr. chairman, i appreciate the work that has been done on the underlying bill. i rise on behalf of my amendment no. 60 to h.r. 8774, the department of defense appropriations act for 2025. my amendment specifies that the united states navy shall use $19.44 million to procure 40-foot patrol boats. the navy has a stated need for these new boats to replace the aging feet, the old 38-foot boats. in today's battle environment, it is essential that we have the most advanced technology and capabilities. it is well understood the 40-foot patrol boats are essential to the navy's mission, and the navy requires the shipyards by contract to be capable of producing one boat every 45 days in order to sustain maximum efficiency. yet, the navy does not fully fund the program through the president's budget request year after year to ensure this objective is accomplished. my amendment does not increase the actual cost of the 40-foot patrol boat program. instead, the amendment simply specifies within appropriations the funds needed for the efficiency of the navy and the shipyards working together to build these vessels. overall efficiency requires that the rate of funding match the rate of vessel production, and any pause in the delivery of funding leads to a loss of the existing workforce, the supply chain, the vendors, the materials, et cetera. coordinating funding with production is essential, and we should support this commonsense funding delivery adjustment which is essentially what my amendment calls for. it is critical that we ensure our armed forces have the vessels and technology required to secure america. i will always advocate for a strong maritime industry that bolsters our national security and supports thousands of american jobs. i am grateful for this opportunity to speak on behalf of my amendment, mr. chairman. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. mike garcia), who is a member of the defense subcommittee. mr. mike garcia of california. mr. chair, i thank the chairman of the subcommittee, ken calvert, who has been a true leader on the bill. mr. chair, i rise in support of the bill. the minority will talk about environmentalism and social justice messaging, but the reality is that this bill goes beyond those. we must remember that the goal of the military is to deter a war, and if unable to deter a war, then to win a war. today, especially, the pacing threat is china. this bill does just that. it helps us not only accelerate programs but keep pace with china in a budget constrained environment of only $833 billion. we are trying to gain efficiency so that it behaves like $1 trillion. it supports all the weapons systems from high to low, b-21s, as well as supporting and protecting u-2 classified programs. in my opinion, the most important thing is a 20 percent pay raise for e-1s through e-4s. i strongly urge support of the defense appropriations bill, and i applaud chairman calvert's leadership on this issue as we try to make the world a safer place. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, this bill is a good bill. it moves the country in the right direction. i encourage all our members to support the bill. mr. chair, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from iowa (mr. nunn). {time} 1345 mr. nunn of iowa. mr. chair, i thank my colleagues for their work on h.r. 8774. mr. chairman, as a counterintelligence officer who operated against china, i have witnessed firsthand how the chinese communist party can threaten our national security. therefore, this bill is critical to our nation's security. the department of defense appropriations act, 2025, will fight against communist china by strengthening our military deterrence efforts and investing in the next generation of military technology, innovation, and our workforce. i thank chairman calvert for including my amendment to increase research and development of cutting-edge drone technology. wireless power transfer for u.s.-made drones allows for providing endurance, long-range capabilities, and dual-use technology to help protect america both at home and abroad. this includes our border security, counter-drug operations, extensive terrain mapping in the case of natural disasters, even air-to-air refueling, and, certainly, extending communications networks in contested environments. most importantly, they are highly effective, low-cost capabilities with a high-yield impact when it comes to kinetic conflict. i appreciate the work and leadership of the chairman and the work of the committee, and i urge members on both sides of the aisle to continue to [[page h4359]] support our advance in drone technology made domestically, independent of china, for a safer, stronger america. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, may i inquire if the majority has additional speakers. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i have no additional speakers. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, the fiscal year 2024 appropriations process was plagued by continuing resolutions and a wasted 5 months of this fiscal year. i know chairman cole and chairman calvert agree with me that we live in an increasingly dangerous world, and i look forward to working with chairman calvert to improve this bill. we know how this process ends. the partisan riders will come out, just like they did in 2024. we have a blueprint on how to write these bills, and i am ready to get this appropriations process back on track and not waste time as we did last year. let us give our servicemembers and their families the bipartisan defense bill they deserve. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to oppose this bill at this time, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support this bill. i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair (mr. thompson of pennsylvania). all time for general debate has expired. pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be considered for amendment under the 5-minute rule. an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of rules committee print 118-40 shall be considered as adopted and the bill, as amended, shall be considered as an original bill for the purpose of further amendment under the 5-minute rule and shall be considered as read. the text of the bill, as amended, is as follows: h.r. 8774 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, that the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2025, for military functions administered by the department of defense and for other purposes, namely: title i military personnel military personnel, army for pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the army on active duty (except members of reserve components provided for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of the reserve officers' training corps; and for payments pursuant to section 156 of public law 97-377, as amended (42 u.s.c. 402 note), and to the department of defense military retirement fund, $51,485,904,000. military personnel, navy for pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the navy on active duty (except members of the reserve provided for elsewhere), midshipmen, and aviation cadets; for members of the reserve officers' training corps; and for payments pursuant to section 156 of public law 97-377, as amended (42 u.s.c. 402 note), and to the department of defense military retirement fund, $39,103,278,000. military personnel, marine corps for pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the marine corps on active duty (except members of the reserve provided for elsewhere); and for payments pursuant to section 156 of public law 97-377, as amended (42 u.s.c. 402 note), and to the department of defense military retirement fund, $16,261,321,000. military personnel, air force for pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the air force on active duty (except members of reserve components provided for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of the reserve officers' training corps; and for payments pursuant to section 156 of public law 97-377, as amended (42 u.s.c. 402 note), and to the department of defense military retirement fund, $37,376,591,000. military personnel, space force for pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence, interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between permanent duty stations, for members of the space force on active duty and cadets; for members of the reserve officers' training corps; and for payments pursuant to section 156 of public law 97-377, as amended (42 u.s.c. 402 note), and to the department of defense military retirement fund, $1,308,675,000. reserve personnel, army for pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and related expenses for personnel of the army reserve on active duty under sections 10211, 10302, and 7038 of title 10, united states code, or while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, united states code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 10, united states code, or while undergoing reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, united states code; and for payments to the department of defense military retirement fund, $5,584,691,000. reserve personnel, navy for pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and related expenses for personnel of the navy reserve on active duty under section 10211 of title 10, united states code, or while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, united states code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 10, united states code, or while undergoing reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, united states code; and for payments to the department of defense military retirement fund, $2,607,677,000. reserve personnel, marine corps for pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and related expenses for personnel of the marine corps reserve on active duty under section 10211 of title 10, united states code, or while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, united states code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 10, united states code, or while undergoing reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty, and for members of the marine corps platoon leaders class, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, united states code; and for payments to the department of defense military retirement fund, $948,708,000. reserve personnel, air force for pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and related expenses for personnel of the air force reserve on active duty under sections 10211, 10305, and 9038 of title 10, united states code, or while serving on active duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, united states code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 10, united states code, or while undergoing reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, united states code; and for payments to the department of defense military retirement fund, $2,619,717,000. national guard personnel, army for pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and related expenses for personnel of the army national guard while on duty under sections 10211, 10302, or 12402 of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, united states code, or while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, united states code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 10, united states code, or while undergoing training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, united states code; and for payments to the department of defense military retirement fund, $9,975,860,000. national guard personnel, air force for pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities, travel, and related expenses for personnel of the air national guard on duty under sections 10211, 10305, or 12402 of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, united states code, or while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, united states code, in connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a) of title 10, united states code, or while undergoing training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, united states code; and for payments to the department of defense military retirement fund, $5,383,100,000. title ii operation and maintenance operation and maintenance, army for expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the operation and maintenance of the army, as authorized by law, $59,178,129,000: provided, that not to exceed $7,000,000 may be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended upon the approval or authority of the secretary of the army, and payments may be made upon the secretary's certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes. operation and maintenance, navy for expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the operation and maintenance of the navy and the marine corps, as authorized by law, $74,754,688,000: provided, that not to exceed $7,000,000 may be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended upon the approval or authority of the secretary of the navy, and payments may be made upon the secretary's certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes. [[page h4360]] operation and maintenance, marine corps for expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the operation and maintenance of the marine corps, as authorized by law, $10,454,504,000. operation and maintenance, air force for expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the operation and maintenance of the air force, as authorized by law, $64,560,558,000: provided, that not to exceed $7,000,000 may be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended upon the approval or authority of the secretary of the air force, and payments may be made upon the secretary's certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes. operation and maintenance, space force for expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the operation and maintenance of the space force, as authorized by law, $5,146,272,000. operation and maintenance, defense-wide (including transfer of funds) for expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the operation and maintenance of activities and agencies of the department of defense (other than the military departments), as authorized by law, $53,074,990,000: provided, that not more than $2,981,000 may be used for the combatant commander initiative fund authorized under section 166a of title 10, united states code: provided further, that not to exceed $10,000,000 may be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be expended upon the approval or authority of the secretary of defense, and payments may be made upon the secretary's certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes: provided further, that of the funds provided under this heading, not less than $22,738,000 shall be made available for the procurement technical assistance cooperative agreement program, of which not less than $5,000,000 shall be available for centers with eligible entities defined in 10 u.s.c. 4951(1)(d): provided further, that none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to plan or implement the consolidation of a budget or appropriations liaison office of the office of the secretary of defense, the office of the secretary of a military department, or the service headquarters of one of the armed forces into a legislative affairs or legislative liaison office: provided further, that of the funds provided under this heading, $3,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026, shall be available only for expenses relating to certain classified activities: provided further, that of the funds provided under this heading, $26,777,000, to remain available until expended, shall be available only for expenses relating to certain classified activities, and may be transferred as necessary by the secretary of defense to operation and maintenance appropriations or research, development, test and evaluation appropriations, to be merged with and to be available for the same time period as the appropriations to which transferred: provided further, that any ceiling on the investment item unit cost of items that may be purchased with operation and maintenance funds shall not apply to the funds described in the preceding proviso: provided further, that of the funds provided under this heading, $2,107,432,000, of which $1,423,630,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026, shall be available to provide support and assistance to foreign security forces or other groups or individuals to conduct, support or facilitate counterterrorism, crisis response, or other department of defense security cooperation programs: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall provide quarterly reports to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate on the use and status of funds made available in this paragraph: provided further, that the transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this act. counter-isis train and equip fund for the ``counter-islamic state of iraq and syria train and equip fund'', $528,699,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026: provided, that such funds shall be available to the secretary of defense in coordination with the secretary of state, to provide assistance, including training; equipment; logistics support, supplies, and services; stipends; infrastructure repair and renovation; construction for facility fortification and humane treatment; and sustainment, to foreign security forces, irregular forces, groups, or individuals participating, or preparing to participate in activities to counter the islamic state of iraq and syria, and their affiliated or associated groups: provided further, that amounts made available under this heading shall be available to provide assistance only for activities in a country designated by the secretary of defense, in coordination with the secretary of state, as having a security mission to counter the islamic state of iraq and syria, and following written notification to the congressional defense committees of such designation: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall ensure that prior to providing assistance to elements of any forces or individuals, such elements or individuals are appropriately vetted, including at a minimum, assessing such elements for associations with terrorist groups or groups associated with the government of iran; and receiving commitments from such elements to promote respect for human rights and the rule of law: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall, not fewer than 15 days prior to obligating from this appropriation account, notify the congressional defense committees in writing of the details of any such obligation: provided further, that the secretary of defense may accept and retain contributions, including assistance in-kind, from foreign governments, including the government of iraq and other entities, to carry out assistance authorized under this heading: provided further, that contributions of funds for the purposes provided herein from any foreign government or other entity may be credited to this fund, to remain available until expended, and used for such purposes: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall prioritize such contributions when providing any assistance for construction for facility fortification: provided further, that the united states may accept equipment procured using funds provided under this heading that was transferred to security forces, irregular forces, or groups participating, or preparing to participate in activities to counter the islamic state of iraq and syria and returned by such forces or groups to the united states, and such equipment may be treated as stocks of the department of defense upon written notification to the congressional defense committees: provided further, that equipment procured using funds provided under this heading and not yet transferred to security forces, irregular forces, or groups participating, or preparing to participate in activities to counter the islamic state of iraq and syria may be treated as stocks of the department of defense when determined by the secretary to no longer be required for transfer to such forces or groups and upon written notification to the congressional defense committees: provided further, that stipend support for the kurdish peshmerga may only be reduced commensurate with support provided from other sources, including iraqi national funds: provided further, that none of the funds made available under this heading may be used to procure or transfer man-portable air defense systems: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall provide quarterly reports to the congressional defense committees on the use of funds provided under this heading, including, but not limited to, the number of individuals trained, the nature and scope of support and sustainment provided to each group or individual, the area of operations for each group, and the contributions of other countries, groups, or individuals. operation and maintenance, army reserve for expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and administration, of the army reserve; repair of facilities and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and communications, $3,279,177,000. operation and maintenance, navy reserve for expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and administration, of the navy reserve; repair of facilities and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and communications, $1,333,993,000. operation and maintenance, marine corps reserve for expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and administration, of the marine corps reserve; repair of facilities and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and communications, $338,080,000. operation and maintenance, air force reserve for expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the operation and maintenance, including training, organization, and administration, of the air force reserve; repair of facilities and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and communications, $4,062,711,000. operation and maintenance, army national guard for expenses of training, organizing, and administering the army national guard, including medical and hospital treatment and related expenses in non-federal hospitals; maintenance, operation, and repairs to structures and facilities; hire of passenger motor vehicles; personnel services in the national guard bureau; travel expenses (other than mileage), as authorized by law for army personnel on active duty, for army national guard division, regimental, and battalion commanders while inspecting units in compliance with national guard bureau regulations when specifically authorized by the chief, national guard bureau; supplying and equipping the army national guard as authorized by law; and expenses of repair, modification, maintenance, and issue of supplies and equipment (including aircraft), $8,591,745,000. operation and maintenance, air national guard for expenses of training, organizing, and administering the air national guard, including medical and hospital treatment and related expenses in non-federal hospitals; maintenance, operation, and repairs to structures and facilities; transportation of things, hire of passenger motor vehicles; supplying and equipping the air national guard, as authorized by law; expenses for repair, modification, maintenance, and issue of supplies and equipment, including those furnished from stocks under the control of agencies of the department of defense; travel expenses (other than mileage) on the same basis as authorized by law for air national guard personnel on active federal duty, for air national guard commanders while inspecting units in compliance with national guard bureau regulations when specifically authorized by the chief, national guard bureau, $7,270,145,000. [[page h4361]] united states court of appeals for the armed forces for salaries and expenses necessary for the united states court of appeals for the armed forces, $21,035,000, of which not to exceed $10,000 may be used for official representation purposes. environmental restoration, army (including transfer of funds) for the department of the army, $268,069,000, to remain available until transferred: provided, that the secretary of the army shall, upon determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the department of the army, or for similar purposes, transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to other appropriations made available to the department of the army, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to which transferred: provided further, that upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as this appropriation: provided further, that amounts transferred back under the preceding proviso, and amounts credited to appropriations made under this heading pursuant to section 2703(e) of title 10, united states code, are available until transferred under conditions set forth in the preceding provisos: provided further, that the transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this act. environmental restoration, navy (including transfer of funds) for the department of the navy, $343,591,000, to remain available until transferred: provided, that the secretary of the navy shall, upon determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the department of the navy, or for similar purposes, transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to other appropriations made available to the department of the navy, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to which transferred: provided further, that upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as this appropriation: provided further, that amounts transferred back under the preceding proviso, and amounts credited to appropriations made under this heading pursuant to section 2703(e) of title 10, united states code, are available until transferred under conditions set forth in the preceding provisos: provided further, that the transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this act. environmental restoration, air force (including transfer of funds) for the department of the air force, $320,256,000, to remain available until transferred: provided, that the secretary of the air force shall, upon determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the department of the air force, or for similar purposes, transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to other appropriations made available to the department of the air force, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to which transferred: provided further, that upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as this appropriation: provided further, that amounts transferred back under the preceding proviso, and amounts credited to appropriations made under this heading pursuant to section 2703(e) of title 10, united states code, are available until transferred under conditions set forth in the preceding provisos: provided further, that the transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this act. environmental restoration, defense-wide (including transfer of funds) for the department of defense, $8,800,000, to remain available until transferred: provided, that the secretary of defense shall, upon determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of the department of defense, or for similar purposes, transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to other appropriations made available to the department of defense, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to which transferred: provided further, that upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as this appropriation: provided further, that amounts transferred back under the preceding proviso, and amounts credited to appropriations made under this heading pursuant to section 2703(e) of title 10, united states code, are available until transferred under conditions set forth in the preceding provisos: provided further, that the transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this act. environmental restoration, formerly used defense sites (including transfer of funds) for the department of the army, $234,475,000, to remain available until transferred: provided, that the secretary of the army shall, upon determining that such funds are required for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris at sites formerly used by the department of defense, transfer the funds made available by this appropriation to other appropriations made available to the department of the army, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriations to which transferred: provided further, that upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as this appropriation: provided further, that amounts transferred back under the preceding proviso, and amounts credited to appropriations made under this heading pursuant to section 2703(e) of title 10, united states code, are available until transferred under conditions set forth in the preceding provisos: provided further, that the transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this act. overseas humanitarian, disaster, and civic aid for expenses relating to the overseas humanitarian, disaster, and civic aid programs of the department of defense (consisting of the programs provided under sections 401, 402, 404, 407, 2557, and 2561 of title 10, united states code), $115,335,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026. cooperative threat reduction account for assistance, including assistance provided by contract or by grants, under programs and activities of the department of defense cooperative threat reduction program authorized under the department of defense cooperative threat reduction act, $246,876,000, to remain available until september 30, 2027. department of defense acquisition workforce development account for the department of defense acquisition workforce development account, $56,176,000: provided, that no other amounts may be otherwise credited or transferred to the account, or deposited into the account, in fiscal year 2025 pursuant to section 1705(d) of title 10, united states code. title iii procurement aircraft procurement, army for construction, procurement, production, modification, and modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, ground handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, $3,518,727,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. missile procurement, army for construction, procurement, production, modification, and modernization of missiles, equipment, including ordnance, ground handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, $5,175,541,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. procurement of weapons and tracked combat vehicles, army for construction, procurement, production, and modification of weapons and tracked combat vehicles, equipment, including ordnance, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and government and contractor- owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, $3,624,159,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. [[page h4362]] procurement of ammunition, army for construction, procurement, production, and modification of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including ammunition facilities, authorized by section 2854 of title 10, united states code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, $2,675,456,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. other procurement, army for construction, procurement, production, and modification of vehicles, including tactical, support, and non-tracked combat vehicles; the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; communications and electronic equipment; other support equipment; spare parts, ordnance, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, $8,460,305,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. aircraft procurement, navy for construction, procurement, production, modification, and modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; expansion of public and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and government and contractor- owned equipment layaway, $17,073,401,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. weapons procurement, navy for construction, procurement, production, modification, and modernization of missiles, torpedoes, other weapons, and related support equipment including spare parts, and accessories therefor; expansion of public and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway, $6,049,095,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. procurement of ammunition, navy and marine corps for construction, procurement, production, and modification of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including ammunition facilities, authorized by section 2854 of title 10, united states code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, $1,599,221,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. shipbuilding and conversion, navy for expenses necessary for the construction, acquisition, or conversion of vessels as authorized by law, including armor and armament thereof, plant equipment, appliances, and machine tools and installation thereof in public and private plants; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; procurement of critical, long lead time components and designs for vessels to be constructed or converted in the future; and expansion of public and private plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title, as follows: columbia class submarine, $3,346,235,000; columbia class submarine (ap), $6,215,939,000; carrier replacement program (cvn-80), $1,123,124,000; carrier replacement program (cvn-81), 674,930,000; virginia class submarine, $3,615,904,000; virginia class submarine (ap), $3,720,303,000; cvn refueling overhauls, $1,061,143,000; ddg-1000 program, $61,100,000; ddg-51 destroyer, $6,409,190,000; ddg-51 destroyer (ap), $41,724,000; lpd flight ii, $1,561,963,000; lha replacement (ap), $61,118,000; tao fleet oiler (ap), $334,461,000; towing, salvage, and rescue ship, $60,000,000; medium landing ship, $29,668,000; ship to shore connector, $417,000,000; service craft, $41,426,000; auxiliary personnel lighter, $76,168,000; lcac slep, $45,087,000; auxiliary vessels, $204,939,000; for outfitting, post delivery, conversions, and first destination transportation, $585,967,000; and completion of prior year shipbuilding programs, $1,930,024,000. in all: $31,617,413,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2029: provided, that additional obligations may be incurred after september 30, 2029, for engineering services, tests, evaluations, and other such budgeted work that must be performed in the final stage of ship construction: provided further, that none of the funds provided under this heading for the construction or conversion of any naval vessel to be constructed in shipyards in the united states shall be expended in foreign facilities for the construction of major components of such vessel: provided further, that none of the funds provided under this heading shall be used for the construction of any naval vessel in foreign shipyards: provided further, that funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act for columbia class submarine (ap) may be available for the purposes authorized by subsections (f), (g), (h) or (i) of section 2218a of title 10, united states code, only in accordance with the provisions of the applicable subsection. other procurement, navy for procurement, production, and modernization of support equipment and materials not otherwise provided for, navy ordnance (except ordnance for new aircraft, new ships, and ships authorized for conversion); the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; expansion of public and private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway, $15,510,478,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027: provided, that such funds are also available for the maintenance, repair, and modernization of ships under a pilot program established for such purposes. procurement, marine corps for expenses necessary for the procurement, manufacture, and modification of missiles, armament, military equipment, spare parts, and accessories therefor; plant equipment, appliances, and machine tools, and installation thereof in public and private plants; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; vehicles for the marine corps, including the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; and expansion of public and private plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title, $3,804,948,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. aircraft procurement, air force for construction, procurement, and modification of aircraft and equipment, including armor and armament, specialized ground handling equipment, and training devices, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; expansion of public and private plants, government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and transportation of things, $20,842,652,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. missile procurement, air force for construction, procurement, and modification of missiles, rockets, and related equipment, including spare parts and accessories therefor; ground handling equipment, and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and transportation of things, $4,016,939,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. procurement of ammunition, air force for construction, procurement, production, and modification of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, including ammunition facilities, authorized by section 2854 of title 10, united states code, and the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes, $629,930,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. other procurement, air force for procurement and modification of equipment (including ground guidance and electronic control equipment, and ground electronic and communication equipment), and supplies, materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise provided for; the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; lease of passenger motor vehicles; and expansion of public and private plants, government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such plants, erection of [[page h4363]] structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon, prior to approval of title; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway, $29,865,521,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. procurement, space force for construction, procurement, and modification of spacecraft, rockets, and related equipment, including spare parts and accessories therefor; ground handling equipment, and training devices; expansion of public and private plants, government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and transportation of things, $3,933,719,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. procurement, defense-wide for expenses of activities and agencies of the department of defense (other than the military departments) necessary for procurement, production, and modification of equipment, supplies, materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise provided for; the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement only; expansion of public and private plants, equipment, and installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land for the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; reserve plant and government and contractor-owned equipment layaway, $5,691,355,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027. defense production act purchases for activities by the department of defense pursuant to sections 108, 301, 302, and 303 of the defense production act of 1950 (50 u.s.c. 4518, 4531, 4532, and 4533), $446,377,000, to remain available for obligation until expended, which shall be obligated and expended by the secretary of defense as if delegated the necessary authorities conferred by the defense production act of 1950. national guard and reserve equipment account for procurement of rotary-wing aircraft; combat, tactical and support vehicles; other weapons; and other procurement items for the reserve components of the armed forces, $800,000,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027: provided, that the chiefs of national guard and reserve components shall, not later than 30 days after enactment of this act, individually submit to the congressional defense committees the modernization priority assessment for their respective national guard or reserve component: provided further, that none of the funds made available by this paragraph may be used to procure manned fixed wing aircraft, or procure or modify missiles, munitions, or ammunition. title iv research, development, test and evaluation research, development, test and evaluation, army for expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, $15,335,703,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2026. research, development, test and evaluation, navy for expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, $26,668,304,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2026: provided, that funds appropriated in this paragraph which are available for the v-22 may be used to meet unique operational requirements of the special operations forces. research, development, test and evaluation, air force for expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, $48,648,586,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2026. research, development, test and evaluation, space force for expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific research, development, test and evaluation, including maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, $18,279,469,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026. research, development, test and evaluation, defense-wide for expenses of activities and agencies of the department of defense (other than the military departments), necessary for basic and applied scientific research, development, test and evaluation; advanced research projects as may be designated and determined by the secretary of defense, pursuant to law; maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment, $36,742,144,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2026. operational test and evaluation, defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the independent activities of the director, operational test and evaluation, in the direction and supervision of operational test and evaluation, including initial operational test and evaluation which is conducted prior to, and in support of, production decisions; joint operational testing and evaluation; and administrative expenses in connection therewith, $348,709,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2026. title v revolving and management funds defense working capital funds for the defense working capital funds, $1,712,921,000. national defense stockpile transaction fund for the national defense stockpile transaction fund, $7,629,000, for activities pursuant to the strategic and critical materials stock piling act (50 u.s.c. 98 et seq.). title vi other department of defense programs defense health program for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for medical and health care programs of the department of defense as authorized by law, $41,159,039,000; of which $38,521,736,000 shall be for operation and maintenance, of which not to exceed one percent shall remain available for obligation until september 30, 2026, and of which up to $20,299,477,000 may be available for contracts entered into under the tricare program; of which $398,867,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027, shall be for procurement; and of which $2,238,436,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2026, shall be for research, development, test and evaluation: provided, that of the funds provided under this heading for research, development, test and evaluation, not less than $1,164,000,000 shall be made available to the defense health agency to carry out the congressionally directed medical research programs: provided further, that, notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the amount made available under this heading for research, development, test and evaluation, not less than $12,000,000 shall be available for hiv prevention educational activities undertaken in connection with united states military training, exercises, and humanitarian assistance activities conducted primarily in african nations: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees quarterly reports on the current status of the electronic health record program: provided further, that the comptroller general of the united states shall perform quarterly performance reviews of the electronic health record program. chemical agents and munitions destruction, defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the destruction of the united states stockpile of lethal chemical agents and munitions in accordance with the provisions of section 1412 of the department of defense authorization act, 1986 (50 u.s.c. 1521), $775,507,000, of which $20,745,000 shall be for operation and maintenance for the chemical stockpile emergency preparedness program, consisting of $13,945,000 for activities on military installations and $6,800,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026, to assist state and local governments; and of which $754,762,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026, shall be for research, development, test and evaluation and shall only be for the assembled chemical weapons alternatives program. drug interdiction and counter-drug activities, defense (including transfer of funds) for drug interdiction and counter-drug activities of the department of defense, for transfer to appropriations available to the department of defense for military personnel of the reserve components serving under the provisions of title 10 and title 32, united states code; for operation and maintenance; for procurement; and for research, development, test and evaluation, $1,143,269,000, of which $673,702,000 shall be for counter-narcotics support; $139,567,000 shall be for the drug demand reduction program; $305,000,000 shall be for the national guard counter-drug program; and $25,000,000 shall be for the national guard counter-drug schools program: provided, that the funds appropriated under this heading shall be available for obligation for the same time period and for the same purpose as the appropriation to which transferred: provided further, that upon a determination that all or part of the funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this appropriation: provided further, that the transfer authority provided under this heading is in addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this act: provided further, that funds appropriated under this heading may be used to support a new start program or project only after written prior notification to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate. office of the inspector general for expenses and activities of the office of the inspector general in carrying out the provisions of the inspector general act of 1978, $539,769,000, of which $536,533,000 shall be for operation and maintenance, of which not to exceed $700,000 is available for emergencies and extraordinary expenses to be expended upon the approval or authority of the inspector general, and payments may be made upon the inspector [[page h4364]] general's certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes; of which $1,336,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2027, shall be for procurement; and of which $1,900,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026, shall be for research, development, test and evaluation. title vii related agencies central intelligence agency retirement and disability system fund for payment to the central intelligence agency retirement and disability system fund, to maintain the proper funding level for continuing the operation of the central intelligence agency retirement and disability system, $514,000,000. intelligence community management account for necessary expenses of the intelligence community management account, $641,585,000. title viii general provisions sec. 8001. no part of any appropriation contained in this act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the congress. sec. 8002. during the current fiscal year, provisions of law prohibiting the payment of compensation to, or employment of, any person not a citizen of the united states shall not apply to personnel of the department of defense: provided, that salary increases granted to direct and indirect hire foreign national employees of the department of defense funded by this act shall not be at a rate in excess of the percentage increase authorized by law for civilian employees of the department of defense whose pay is computed under the provisions of section 5332 of title 5, united states code, or at a rate in excess of the percentage increase provided by the appropriate host nation to its own employees, whichever is higher: provided further, that this section shall not apply to department of defense foreign service national employees serving at united states diplomatic missions whose pay is set by the department of state under the foreign service act of 1980: provided further, that the limitations of this provision shall not apply to foreign national employees of the department of defense in the republic of turkey. sec. 8003. no part of any appropriation contained in this act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, unless expressly so provided herein. sec. 8004. no more than 20 percent of the appropriations in this act which are limited for obligation during the current fiscal year shall be obligated during the last 2 months of the fiscal year: provided, that this section shall not apply to obligations for support of active duty training of reserve components or summer camp training of the reserve officers' training corps. (transfer of funds) sec. 8005. upon determination by the secretary of defense that such action is necessary in the national interest, the secretary may, with the approval of the director of the office of management and budget, transfer not to exceed $6,000,000,000 of working capital funds of the department of defense or funds made available in this act to the department of defense for military functions (except military construction) between such appropriations or funds or any subdivision thereof, to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation or fund to which transferred: provided, that such authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher priority items, based on unforeseen military requirements, than those for which originally appropriated and in no case where the item for which funds are requested has been denied by the congress: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall notify the congress promptly of all transfers made pursuant to this authority or any other authority in this act: provided further, that no part of the funds in this act shall be available to prepare or present a request to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate for reprogramming of funds, unless for higher priority items, based on unforeseen military requirements, than those for which originally appropriated and in no case where the item for which reprogramming is requested has been denied by the congress: provided further, that a request for multiple reprogrammings of funds using authority provided in this section shall be made prior to june 30, 2025: provided further, that transfers among military personnel appropriations shall not be taken into account for purposes of the limitation on the amount of funds that may be transferred under this section. sec. 8006. (a) with regard to the list of specific programs, projects, and activities (and the dollar amounts and adjustments to budget activities corresponding to such programs, projects, and activities) contained in the tables titled explanation of project level adjustments in the explanatory statement regarding this act and the tables contained in the classified annex accompanying this act, the obligation and expenditure of amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in this act for those programs, projects, and activities are hereby required by law to be carried out in the manner provided by such tables to the same extent as if the tables were included in the text of this act. (b) amounts specified in the referenced tables described in subsection (a) shall not be treated as subdivisions of appropriations for purposes of section 8005 of this act: provided, that section 8005 of this act shall apply when transfers of the amounts described in subsection (a) occur between appropriation accounts, subject to the limitation in subsection (c): provided further, that the transfer amount limitation provided in section 8005 of this act shall not apply to transfers of amounts described in subsection (a) if such transfers are necessary for the proper execution of such funds. (c) during the current fiscal year, amounts specified in the referenced tables in titles iii and iv of this act described in subsection (a) may not be transferred pursuant to section 8005 of this act other than for proper execution of such amounts, as provided in subsection (b). sec. 8007. (a) not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the department of defense shall submit a report to the congressional defense committees to establish the baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer authorities for fiscal year 2025: provided, that the report shall include-- (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column to display the president's budget request, adjustments made by congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level; (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation both by budget activity and program, project, and activity as detailed in the budget appendix; and (3) an identification of items of special congressional interest. (b) notwithstanding section 8005 of this act, none of the funds provided in this act shall be available for reprogramming or transfer until the report identified in subsection (a) is submitted to the congressional defense committees, unless the secretary of defense certifies in writing to the congressional defense committees that such reprogramming or transfer is necessary as an emergency requirement: provided, that this subsection shall not apply to transfers from the following appropriations accounts: (1) ``environmental restoration, army''; (2) ``environmental restoration, navy''; (3) ``environmental restoration, air force''; (4) ``environmental restoration, defense-wide''; (5) ``environmental restoration, formerly used defense sites''; and (6) ``drug interdiction and counter-drug activities, defense''. (transfer of funds) sec. 8008. during the current fiscal year, cash balances in working capital funds of the department of defense established pursuant to section 2208 of title 10, united states code, may be maintained in only such amounts as are necessary at any time for cash disbursements to be made from such funds: provided, that transfers may be made between such funds: provided further, that transfers may be made between working capital funds and the ``foreign currency fluctuations, defense'' appropriation and the ``operation and maintenance'' appropriation accounts in such amounts as may be determined by the secretary of defense, with the approval of the director of the office of management and budget, except that such transfers may not be made unless the secretary of defense has notified the congress of the proposed transfer: provided further, that except in amounts equal to the amounts appropriated to working capital funds in this act, no obligations may be made against a working capital fund to procure or increase the value of war reserve material inventory, unless the secretary of defense has notified the congress prior to any such obligation. sec. 8009. funds appropriated by this act may not be used to initiate a special access program without prior notification 30 calendar days in advance to the congressional defense committees. sec. 8010. none of the funds provided by this act shall be available to initiate: (1) a multiyear contract that employs economic order quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year of the contract or that includes an unfunded contingent liability in excess of $20,000,000; or (2) a contract for advance procurement leading to a multiyear contract that employs economic order quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000 in any one year, unless the congressional defense committees have been notified at least 30 days in advance of the proposed contract award: provided, that no part of any appropriation contained in this act shall be available to initiate a multiyear contract for which the economic order quantity advance procurement is not funded at least to the limits of the government's liability: provided further, that no part of any appropriation contained in this act shall be available to initiate multiyear procurement contracts for any systems or component thereof if the value of the multiyear contract would exceed $500,000,000 unless specifically provided in this act: provided further, that no multiyear procurement contract can be terminated without 30- day prior notification to the congressional defense committees: provided further, that the execution of multiyear authority shall require the use of a present value analysis to determine lowest cost compared to an annual procurement: provided further, that none of the funds provided by this act may be used for a multiyear contract executed after the date of the enactment of this act unless in the case of any such contract-- (1) the secretary of defense has submitted to congress a budget request for full funding of units to be procured through the contract and, in the case of a contract for procurement of aircraft, that includes, for any aircraft unit to be procured through the contract for which procurement funds are requested in that budget request for production beyond advance procurement activities in the fiscal year covered by the budget, full funding of procurement of such unit in that fiscal year; (2) cancellation provisions in the contract do not include consideration of recurring manufacturing costs of the contractor associated with the production of unfunded units to be delivered under the contract; (3) the contract provides that payments to the contractor under the contract shall not be made [[page h4365]] in advance of incurred costs on funded units; and (4) the contract does not provide for a price adjustment based on a failure to award a follow-on contract. funds appropriated in title iii of this act may be used for multiyear procurement contracts for ch-53k heavy lift helicopters, and uss virginia class (ssn-774). sec. 8011. within the funds appropriated for the operation and maintenance of the armed forces, funds are hereby appropriated pursuant to section 401 of title 10, united states code, for humanitarian and civic assistance costs under chapter 20 of title 10, united states code: provided, that such funds may also be obligated for humanitarian and civic assistance costs incidental to authorized operations and pursuant to authority granted in section 401 of title 10, united states code, and these obligations shall be reported as required by section 401(d) of title 10, united states code: provided further, that funds available for operation and maintenance shall be available for providing humanitarian and similar assistance by using civic action teams in the trust territories of the pacific islands and freely associated states of micronesia, pursuant to the compact of free association as authorized by public law 99-239: provided further, that upon a determination by the secretary of the army that such action is beneficial for graduate medical education programs conducted at army medical facilities located in hawaii, the secretary of the army may authorize the provision of medical services at such facilities and transportation to such facilities, on a nonreimbursable basis, for civilian patients from american samoa, the commonwealth of the northern mariana islands, the marshall islands, the federated states of micronesia, palau, and guam. sec. 8012. (a) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of defense shall submit to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate a report on excessive contractor payments that exceed the thresholds established in 10 u.s.c. chapter 271 ``truthful cost or pricing data (truth in negotiations)'' or 41 u.s.c. chapter 35 ``truthful cost or pricing data'' and with respect to which none of the exceptions to certified cost or pricing data requirements apply. (b) the report required by subsection (a) shall also include the following: (1) the amounts collected, adjusted, or offset from contractors as a result of providing defective cost and pricing data; (2) the mechanisms used to identify violations of 10 u.s.c. chapter 271 or 41 u.s.c. chapter 35; (3) disciplinary actions taken by the department of defense when violations of 10 u.s.c. chapter 271 or 41 u.s.c. chapter 35 are identified, regardless of whether they are included in the system for award management; and (4) any referrals made to the department of justice. sec. 8013. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act shall be used in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional action on any legislation or appropriation matters pending before the congress. sec. 8014. none of the funds available in this act to the department of defense, other than appropriations made for necessary or routine refurbishments, upgrades, or maintenance activities, shall be used to reduce or to prepare to reduce the number of deployed and non-deployed strategic delivery vehicles and launchers below the levels set forth in the report submitted to congress in accordance with section 1042 of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2012. (transfer of funds) sec. 8015. (a) funds appropriated in title iii of this act for the department of defense pilot mentor-protege program may be transferred to any other appropriation contained in this act solely for the purpose of implementing a mentor- protege program developmental assistance agreement pursuant to section 4902 of title 10, united states code, under the authority of this provision or any other transfer authority contained in this act. (b) the secretary of defense shall include with the budget justification documents in support of the budget for fiscal year 2026 (as submitted to congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, united states code) a description of each transfer under this section that occurred during the last fiscal year before the fiscal year in which such budget is submitted. sec. 8016. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be available for the purchase by the department of defense (and its departments and agencies) of welded shipboard anchor and mooring chain unless the anchor and mooring chain are manufactured in the united states from components which are substantially manufactured in the united states: provided, that for the purpose of this section, the term ``manufactured'' shall include cutting, heat treating, quality control, and testing of chain and welding (including the forging and shot blasting process): provided further, that for the purpose of this section substantially all of the components of anchor and mooring chain shall be considered to be produced or manufactured in the united states if the aggregate cost of the components produced or manufactured in the united states exceeds the aggregate cost of the components produced or manufactured outside the united states: provided further, that when adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet department of defense requirements on a timely basis, the secretary of the service responsible for the procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire capability for national security purposes. sec. 8017. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act shall be used for the support of any nonappropriated funds activity of the department of defense that procures malt beverages and wine with nonappropriated funds for resale (including such alcoholic beverages sold by the drink) on a military installation located in the united states unless such malt beverages and wine are procured within that state, or in the case of the district of columbia, within the district of columbia, in which the military installation is located: provided, that, in a case in which the military installation is located in more than one state, purchases may be made in any state in which the installation is located: provided further, that such local procurement requirements for malt beverages and wine shall apply to all alcoholic beverages only for military installations in states which are not contiguous with another state: provided further, that alcoholic beverages other than wine and malt beverages, in contiguous states and the district of columbia shall be procured from the most competitive source, price and other factors considered. sec. 8018. none of the funds available to the department of defense may be used to demilitarize or dispose of m-1 carbines, m-1 garand rifles, m-14 rifles, .22 caliber rifles, .30 caliber rifles, or m-1911 pistols, or to demilitarize or destroy small arms ammunition or ammunition components that are not otherwise prohibited from commercial sale under federal law, unless the small arms ammunition or ammunition components are certified by the secretary of the army or designee as unserviceable or unsafe for further use. sec. 8019. no more than $500,000 of the funds appropriated or made available in this act shall be used during a single fiscal year for any single relocation of an organization, unit, activity or function of the department of defense into or within the national capital region: provided, that the secretary of defense may waive this restriction on a case-by- case basis by certifying in writing to the congressional defense committees that such a relocation is required in the best interest of the government. sec. 8020. of the funds made available in this act under the heading ``procurement, defense-wide'', $25,169,000 shall be available only for incentive payments authorized by section 504 of the indian financing act of 1974 (25 u.s.c. 1544): provided, that a prime contractor or a subcontractor at any tier that makes a subcontract award to any subcontractor or supplier as defined in section 1544 of title 25, united states code, or a small business owned and controlled by an individual or individuals defined under section 4221(9) of title 25, united states code, shall be considered a contractor for the purposes of being allowed additional compensation under section 504 of the indian financing act of 1974 (25 u.s.c. 1544) whenever the prime contract or subcontract amount is over $500,000 and involves the expenditure of funds appropriated by an act making appropriations for the department of defense with respect to any fiscal year: provided further, that notwithstanding section 1906 of title 41, united states code, this section shall be applicable to any department of defense acquisition of supplies or services, including any contract and any subcontract at any tier for acquisition of commercial items produced or manufactured, in whole or in part, by any subcontractor or supplier defined in section 1544 of title 25, united states code, or a small business owned and controlled by an individual or individuals defined under section 4221(9) of title 25, united states code. sec. 8021. (a) notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of the air force may convey at no cost to the air force, without consideration, to indian tribes located in the states of nevada, idaho, north dakota, south dakota, montana, oregon, minnesota, and washington relocatable military housing units located at grand forks air force base, malmstrom air force base, mountain home air force base, ellsworth air force base, and minot air force base that are excess to the needs of the air force. (b) the secretary of the air force shall convey, at no cost to the air force, military housing units under subsection (a) in accordance with the request for such units that are submitted to the secretary by the operation walking shield program on behalf of indian tribes located in the states of nevada, idaho, north dakota, south dakota, montana, oregon, minnesota, and washington. any such conveyance shall be subject to the condition that the housing units shall be removed within a reasonable period of time, as determined by the secretary. (c) the operation walking shield program shall resolve any conflicts among requests of indian tribes for housing units under subsection (a) before submitting requests to the secretary of the air force under subsection (b). (d) in this section, the term ``indian tribe'' means any recognized indian tribe included on the current list published by the secretary of the interior under section 104 of the federally recognized indian tribe act of 1994 (public law 103-454; 108 stat. 4792; 25 u.s.c. 5131). sec. 8022. of the funds appropriated to the department of defense under the heading ``operation and maintenance, defense-wide'', not less than $19,861,000 may be made available only for the mitigation of environmental impacts, including training and technical assistance to tribes, related administrative support, the gathering of information, documenting of environmental damage, and developing a system for prioritization of mitigation and cost to complete estimates for mitigation, on indian lands resulting from department of defense activities. sec. 8023. funds appropriated by this act for the defense media activity may not be used for [[page h4366]] any national or international political or psychological activities. sec. 8024. (a) of the funds made available in this act, not less than $73,500,000 shall be available for the civil air patrol corporation, of which-- (1) $56,500,000 shall be available from ``operation and maintenance, air force'' to support civil air patrol corporation operation and maintenance, readiness, counter- drug activities, and drug demand reduction activities involving youth programs; (2) $15,000,000 shall be available from ``aircraft procurement, air force''; and (3) $2,000,000 shall be available from ``other procurement, air force'' for vehicle procurement. (b) the secretary of the air force should waive reimbursement for any funds used by the civil air patrol for counter-drug activities in support of federal, state, and local government agencies. sec. 8025. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to establish a new department of defense (department) federally funded research and development center (ffrdc), either as a new entity, or as a separate entity administrated by an organization managing another ffrdc, or as a nonprofit membership corporation consisting of a consortium of other ffrdcs and other nonprofit entities. (b) except when acting in a technical advisory capacity, no member of a board of directors, trustees, overseers, advisory group, special issues panel, visiting committee, or any similar entity of a defense ffrdc, or any entity that contracts with the federal government to manage or operate one or more ffrdcs, or any paid consultant to a defense ffrdc shall receive funds appropriated by this act as compensation for services as a member of such entity: provided, that a member of any such entity shall be allowed travel expenses and per diem as authorized under the federal joint travel regulations, when engaged in the performance of membership duties: provided further, that except when acting in a technical advisory capacity, no paid consultant shall receive funds appropriated by this act as compensation by more than one ffrdc in a calendar year. (c) notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds available to the department from any source during the current fiscal year may be used by a defense ffrdc, through a fee or other payment mechanism, for construction of new buildings not located on a military installation, for payment of cost sharing for projects funded by government grants, for absorption of contract overruns, or for certain charitable contributions, not to include employee participation in community service and/or development. (d) notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the funds available to the department during fiscal year 2025, not more than $2,886,300,000 may be funded for professional technical staff-related costs of the defense ffrdcs: provided, that within such funds, not more than $461,300,000 shall be available for the defense studies and analysis ffrdcs: provided further, that this subsection shall not apply to staff years funded in the national intelligence program and the military intelligence program: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall, with the submission of the department's fiscal year 2026 budget request, submit a report presenting the specific amounts of staff years of technical effort to be allocated for each defense ffrdc by program during that fiscal year and the associated budget estimates, by appropriation account and program. sec. 8026. for the purposes of this act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' means the armed services committee of the house of representatives, the armed services committee of the senate, the subcommittee on defense of the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives, and the subcommittee on defense of the committee on appropriations of the senate. sec. 8027. for the purposes of this act, the term ``congressional intelligence committees'' means the permanent select committee on intelligence of the house of representatives, the select committee on intelligence of the senate, the subcommittee on defense of the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives, and the subcommittee on defense of the committee on appropriations of the senate. sec. 8028. during the current fiscal year, the department of defense may acquire the modification, depot maintenance and repair of aircraft, vehicles and vessels as well as the production of components and other defense-related articles, through competition between department of defense depot maintenance activities and private firms: provided, that the senior acquisition executive of the military department or defense agency concerned, with power of delegation, shall certify that successful bids include comparable estimates of all direct and indirect costs for both public and private bids: provided further, that office of management and budget circular a-76 shall not apply to competitions conducted under this section. sec. 8029. (a) none of the funds appropriated in this act may be expended by an entity of the department of defense unless the entity, in expending the funds, complies with the buy american act. for purposes of this subsection, the term ``buy american act'' means chapter 83 of title 41, united states code. (b) if the secretary of defense determines that a person has been convicted of intentionally affixing a label bearing a ``made in america'' inscription to any product sold in or shipped to the united states that is not made in america, the secretary shall determine, in accordance with section 4658 of title 10, united states code, whether the person should be debarred from contracting with the department of defense. (c) in the case of any equipment or products purchased with appropriations provided under this act, it is the sense of the congress that any entity of the department of defense, in expending the appropriation, purchase only american-made equipment and products, provided that american-made equipment and products are cost-competitive, quality competitive, and available in a timely fashion. sec. 8030. none of the funds appropriated or made available in this act shall be used to procure carbon, alloy, or armor steel plate for use in any government-owned facility or property under the control of the department of defense which were not melted and rolled in the united states or canada: provided, that these procurement restrictions shall apply to any and all federal supply class 9515, american society of testing and materials (astm) or american iron and steel institute (aisi) specifications of carbon, alloy or armor steel plate: provided further, that the secretary of the military department responsible for the procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate that adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet department of defense requirements on a timely basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire capability for national security purposes: provided further, that these restrictions shall not apply to contracts which are in being as of the date of the enactment of this act. sec. 8031. (a)(1) if the secretary of defense, after consultation with the united states trade representative, determines that a foreign country which is party to an agreement described in paragraph (2) has violated the terms of the agreement by discriminating against certain types of products produced in the united states that are covered by the agreement, the secretary of defense shall rescind the secretary's blanket waiver of the buy american act with respect to such types of products produced in that foreign country. (2) an agreement referred to in paragraph (1) is any reciprocal defense procurement memorandum of understanding, between the united states and a foreign country pursuant to which the secretary of defense has prospectively waived the buy american act for certain products in that country. (b) the secretary of defense shall submit to the congress a report on the amount of department of defense purchases from foreign entities in fiscal year 2025. such report shall separately indicate the dollar value of items for which the buy american act was waived pursuant to any agreement described in subsection (a)(2), the trade agreements act of 1979 (19 u.s.c. 2501 et seq.), or any international agreement to which the united states is a party. (c) for purposes of this section, the term ``buy american act'' means chapter 83 of title 41, united states code. sec. 8032. none of the funds appropriated by this act may be used for the procurement of ball and roller bearings other than those produced by a domestic source and of domestic origin: provided, that the secretary of the military department responsible for such procurement may waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate, that adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet department of defense requirements on a timely basis and that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire capability for national security purposes: provided further, that this restriction shall not apply to the purchase of ``commercial products'', as defined by section 103 of title 41, united states code, except that the restriction shall apply to ball or roller bearings purchased as end items. sec. 8033. none of the funds in this act may be used to purchase any supercomputer which is not manufactured in the united states, unless the secretary of defense certifies to the congressional defense committees that such an acquisition must be made in order to acquire capability for national security purposes that is not available from united states manufacturers. sec. 8034. (a) the secretary of defense may, on a case-by- case basis, waive with respect to a foreign country each limitation on the procurement of defense items from foreign sources provided in law if the secretary determines that the application of the limitation with respect to that country would invalidate cooperative programs entered into between the department of defense and the foreign country, or would invalidate reciprocal trade agreements for the procurement of defense items entered into under section 4851 of title 10, united states code, and the country does not discriminate against the same or similar defense items produced in the united states for that country. (b) subsection (a) applies with respect to-- (1) contracts and subcontracts entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this act; and (2) options for the procurement of items that are exercised after such date under contracts that are entered into before such date if the option prices are adjusted for any reason other than the application of a waiver granted under subsection (a). (c) subsection (a) does not apply to a limitation regarding construction of public vessels, ball and roller bearings, food, and clothing or textile materials as defined by section xi (chapters 50-65) of the harmonized tariff schedule of the united states and products classified under headings 4010, 4202, 4203, 6401 through 6406, 6505, 7019, 7218 through 7229, 7304.41 through 7304.49, 7306.40, 7502 through 7508, 8105, 8108, 8109, 8211, 8215, and 9404. sec. 8035. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used for the purchase or manufacture of a flag [[page h4367]] of the united states unless such flags are treated as covered items under section 4862(b) of title 10, united states code. sec. 8036. during the current fiscal year, amounts contained in the department of defense overseas military facility investment recovery account shall be available until expended for the payments specified by section 2687a(b)(2) of title 10, united states code. sec. 8037. during the current fiscal year, appropriations which are available to the department of defense for operation and maintenance may be used to purchase items having an investment item unit cost of not more than $350,000: provided, that upon determination by the secretary of defense that such action is necessary to meet the operational requirements of a commander of a combatant command engaged in a named contingency operation overseas, such funds may be used to purchase items having an investment item unit cost of not more than $500,000. sec. 8038. up to $8,132,000 of the funds appropriated under the heading ``operation and maintenance, navy'' may be made available for the asia pacific regional initiative program for the purpose of enabling the united states indo- pacific command to execute theater security cooperation activities such as humanitarian assistance, and payment of incremental and personnel costs of training and exercising with foreign security forces: provided, that funds made available for this purpose may be used, notwithstanding any other funding authorities for humanitarian assistance, security assistance or combined exercise expenses: provided further, that funds may not be obligated to provide assistance to any foreign country that is otherwise prohibited from receiving such type of assistance under any other provision of law. sec. 8039. the secretary of defense shall issue regulations to prohibit the sale of any tobacco or tobacco- related products in military resale outlets in the united states, its territories and possessions at a price below the most competitive price in the local community: provided, that such regulations shall direct that the prices of tobacco or tobacco-related products in overseas military retail outlets shall be within the range of prices established for military retail system stores located in the united states. sec. 8040. (a) during the current fiscal year, none of the appropriations or funds available to the department of defense working capital funds shall be used for the purchase of an investment item for the purpose of acquiring a new inventory item for sale or anticipated sale during the current fiscal year or a subsequent fiscal year to customers of the department of defense working capital funds if such an item would not have been chargeable to the department of defense business operations fund during fiscal year 1994 and if the purchase of such an investment item would be chargeable during the current fiscal year to appropriations made to the department of defense for procurement. (b) the fiscal year 2026 budget request for the department of defense as well as all justification material and other documentation supporting the fiscal year 2026 department of defense budget shall be prepared and submitted to the congress on the basis that any equipment which was classified as an end item and funded in a procurement appropriation contained in this act shall be budgeted for in a proposed fiscal year 2026 procurement appropriation and not in the supply management business area or any other area or category of the department of defense working capital funds. sec. 8041. none of the funds appropriated by this act for programs of the central intelligence agency shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, except for funds appropriated for the reserve for contingencies, which shall remain available until september 30, 2026: provided, that funds appropriated, transferred, or otherwise credited to the central intelligence agency central services working capital fund during this or any prior fiscal year shall remain available until expended: provided further, that any funds appropriated or transferred to the central intelligence agency for advanced research and development acquisition, for agent operations, and for covert action programs authorized by the president under section 503 of the national security act of 1947 (50 u.s.c. 3093) shall remain available until september 30, 2026: provided further, that any funds appropriated or transferred to the central intelligence agency for the construction, improvement, or alteration of facilities, including leased facilities, to be used primarily by personnel of the intelligence community, shall remain available until september 30, 2027. sec. 8042. (a) except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), none of the funds made available by this act may be used-- (1) to establish a field operating agency; or (2) to pay the basic pay of a member of the armed forces or civilian employee of the department of defense who is transferred or reassigned from a headquarters activity if the member or employee's place of duty remains at the location of that headquarters. (b) the secretary of defense or secretary of a military department may waive the limitations in subsection (a), on a case-by-case basis, if the secretary determines, and certifies to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate that the granting of the waiver will reduce the personnel requirements or the financial requirements of the department. (c) this section does not apply to-- (1) field operating agencies funded within the national intelligence program; (2) an army field operating agency established to eliminate, mitigate, or counter the effects of improvised explosive devices, and, as determined by the secretary of the army, other similar threats; (3) an army field operating agency established to improve the effectiveness and efficiencies of biometric activities and to integrate common biometric technologies throughout the department of defense; or (4) an air force field operating agency established to administer the air force mortuary affairs program and mortuary operations for the department of defense and authorized federal entities. sec. 8043. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act shall be available to convert to contractor performance an activity or function of the department of defense that, on or after the date of the enactment of this act, is performed by department of defense civilian employees unless-- (1) the conversion is based on the result of a public- private competition that includes a most efficient and cost effective organization plan developed by such activity or function; (2) the competitive sourcing official determines that, over all performance periods stated in the solicitation of offers for performance of the activity or function, the cost of performance of the activity or function by a contractor would be less costly to the department of defense by an amount that equals or exceeds the lesser of-- (a) 10 percent of the most efficient organization's personnel-related costs for performance of that activity or function by federal employees; or (b) $10,000,000; and (3) the contractor does not receive an advantage for a proposal that would reduce costs for the department of defense by-- (a) not making an employer-sponsored health insurance plan available to the workers who are to be employed in the performance of that activity or function under the contract; or (b) offering to such workers an employer-sponsored health benefits plan that requires the employer to contribute less towards the premium or subscription share than the amount that is paid by the department of defense for health benefits for civilian employees under chapter 89 of title 5, united states code. (b)(1) the department of defense, without regard to subsection (a) of this section or subsection (a), (b), or (c) of section 2461 of title 10, united states code, and notwithstanding any administrative regulation, requirement, or policy to the contrary shall have full authority to enter into a contract for the performance of any commercial or industrial type function of the department of defense that-- (a) is included on the procurement list established pursuant to section 2 of the javits-wagner-o'day act (section 8503 of title 41, united states code); (b) is planned to be converted to performance by a qualified nonprofit agency for the blind or by a qualified nonprofit agency for other severely handicapped individuals in accordance with that act; or (c) is planned to be converted to performance by a qualified firm under at least 51 percent ownership by an indian tribe, as defined in section 4(e) of the indian self- determination and education assistance act (25 u.s.c. 450b(e)), or a native hawaiian organization, as defined in section 8(a)(15) of the small business act (15 u.s.c. 637(a)(15)). (2) this section shall not apply to depot contracts or contracts for depot maintenance as provided in sections 2469 and 2474 of title 10, united states code. (c) the conversion of any activity or function of the department of defense under the authority provided by this section shall be credited toward any competitive or outsourcing goal, target, or measurement that may be established by statute, regulation, or policy and is deemed to be awarded under the authority of, and in compliance with, subsection (h) of section 2304 of title 10, united states code, for the competition or outsourcing of commercial activities. (rescissions) sec. 8044. of the funds appropriated in department of defense appropriations acts, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the following accounts and programs in the specified amounts: provided, that no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget or the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985: ``aircraft procurement, navy'', 2023/2025, $49,963,000; ``aircraft procurement, air force'', 2023/2025, $201,420,000; ``operation and maintenance, defense-wide'', 2024/2025, $50,000,000; ``counter-isis train and equip fund'', 2024/2025, $50,000,000; ``cooperative threat reduction account'', 2024/2026, $91,000,000; ``aircraft procurement, navy'', 2024/2026, $17,468,000; ``other procurement, navy'', 2024/2026, $22,872,000 ``procurement, marine corps'', 2024/2026, $71,257,000; ``aircraft procurement, air force'', 2024/2026, $90,000,000; ``other procurement, air force'', 2024/2026, $532,994,000; ``procurement, defense-wide'', 2024/2026, $6,077,000; and ``research, development, test and evaluation, navy'', 2024/ 2025, $25,000,000. sec. 8045. none of the funds available in this act may be used to reduce the authorized positions for military technicians (dual status) of the army national guard, air national guard, army reserve and air force reserve for the purpose of applying any administratively imposed civilian personnel ceiling, freeze, or reduction on military technicians (dual status), unless such reductions are a direct result of a reduction in military force structure. [[page h4368]] sec. 8046. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this act may be obligated or expended for assistance to the democratic people's republic of korea unless specifically appropriated for that purpose: provided, that this restriction shall not apply to any activities incidental to the defense pow/mia accounting agency mission to recover and identify the remains of united states armed forces personnel from the democratic people's republic of korea. sec. 8047. in this fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, funds appropriated for operation and maintenance of the military departments, combatant commands and defense agencies shall be available for reimbursement of pay, allowances and other expenses which would otherwise be incurred against appropriations for the national guard and reserve when members of the national guard and reserve provide intelligence or counterintelligence support to combatant commands, defense agencies and joint intelligence activities, including the activities and programs included within the national intelligence program and the military intelligence program: provided, that nothing in this section authorizes deviation from established reserve and national guard personnel and training procedures. sec. 8048. (a) none of the funds available to the department of defense for any fiscal year for drug interdiction or counter-drug activities may be transferred to any other department or agency of the united states except as specifically provided in an appropriations law. (b) none of the funds available to the central intelligence agency for any fiscal year for drug interdiction or counter- drug activities may be transferred to any other department or agency of the united states except as specifically provided in an appropriations law. sec. 8049. in addition to the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available elsewhere in this act, $49,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the department of defense: provided, that upon the determination of the secretary of defense that it shall serve the national interest, the secretary shall make grants in the amounts specified as follows: $24,000,000 to the united service organizations and $25,000,000 to the red cross. sec. 8050. notwithstanding any other provision in this act, the small business innovation research program and the small business technology transfer program set-asides shall be taken proportionally from all programs, projects, or activities to the extent they contribute to the extramural budget. the secretary of each military department, the director of each defense agency, and the head of each other relevant component of the department of defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees, concurrent with submission of the budget justification documents to congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, united states code, a report with a detailed accounting of the small business innovation research program and the small business technology transfer program set-asides taken from programs, projects, or activities within such department, agency, or component during the most recently completed fiscal year. sec. 8051. none of the funds available to the department of defense under this act may be obligated or expended to pay a contractor under a contract with the department of defense for costs of any amount paid by the contractor to an employee when-- (1) such costs are for a bonus or otherwise in excess of the normal salary paid by the contractor to the employee; and (2) such bonus is part of restructuring costs associated with a business combination. (including transfer of funds) sec. 8052. during the current fiscal year, no more than $30,000,000 of appropriations made in this act under the heading ``operation and maintenance, defense-wide'' may be transferred to appropriations available for the pay of military personnel, to be merged with, and to be available for the same time period as the appropriations to which transferred, to be used in support of such personnel in connection with support and services for eligible organizations and activities outside the department of defense pursuant to section 2012 of title 10, united states code. sec. 8053. (a) notwithstanding any other provision of law, the chief of the national guard bureau may permit the use of equipment of the national guard distance learning project by any person or entity on a space-available, reimbursable basis. the chief of the national guard bureau shall establish the amount of reimbursement for such use on a case-by-case basis. (b) amounts collected under subsection (a) shall be credited to funds available for the national guard distance learning project and be available to defray the costs associated with the use of equipment of the project under that subsection. such funds shall be available for such purposes without fiscal year limitation. sec. 8054. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or prior acts may be obligated or expended to retire, prepare to retire, or place in storage or on backup aircraft inventory status any c-40 aircraft. (b) the limitation under subsection (a) shall not apply to an individual c-40 aircraft that the secretary of the air force determines, on a case-by-case basis, to be no longer mission capable due to a class a mishap. (c) if the secretary determines under subsection (b) that an aircraft is no longer mission capable, the secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a certification in writing that the status of such aircraft is due to a class a mishap and not due to lack of maintenance, repairs, or other reasons. (d) not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the necessary steps taken by the department of defense to meet the travel requirements for official or representational duties of members of congress and the cabinet in fiscal years 2025 and 2026. sec. 8055. (a) none of the funds appropriated in title iv of this act may be used to procure end-items for delivery to military forces for operational training, operational use, or inventory requirements: provided, that this restriction does not apply to end-items used in development, prototyping in accordance with an approved test strategy, and test activities preceding and leading to acceptance for operational use. (b) if the number of end-items budgeted with funds appropriated in title iv of this act exceeds the number required in an approved test strategy, the under secretary of defense (research and engineering) and the under secretary of defense (acquisition and sustainment), in coordination with the responsible service acquisition executive, shall certify in writing to the congressional defense committees that there is a bonafide need for the additional end-items at the time of submittal to congress of the budget of the president for fiscal year 2026 pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, united states code: provided, that this restriction does not apply to programs funded within the national intelligence program. (c) the secretary of defense shall, at the time of the submittal to congress of the budget of the president for fiscal year 2026 pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, united states code, submit to the congressional defense committees a report detailing the use of funds requested in research, development, test and evaluation accounts for end-items used in development, prototyping and test activities preceding and leading to acceptance for operational use: provided, that the report shall set forth, for each end item covered by the preceding proviso, a detailed list of the statutory authorities under which amounts in the accounts described in that proviso were used for such item: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall, at the time of the submittal to congress of the budget of the president for fiscal year 2026 pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, united states code, submit to the congressional defense committees a certification that funds requested for fiscal year 2026 in research, development, test and evaluation accounts are in compliance with this section: provided further, that the secretary of defense may waive this restriction on a case-by- case basis by certifying in writing to the subcommittees on defense of the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate that it is in the national security interest to do so. sec. 8056. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or other department of defense appropriations acts may be obligated or expended for the purpose of performing repairs or maintenance to military family housing units of the department of defense, including areas in such military family housing units that may be used for the purpose of conducting official department of defense business. sec. 8057. notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated in this act under the heading ``research, development, test and evaluation, defense-wide'' for any new start defense innovation acceleration or rapid prototyping program demonstration project with a value of more than $5,000,000 may only be obligated 15 days after a report, including a description of the project, the planned acquisition and transition strategy and its estimated annual and total cost, has been provided in writing to the congressional defense committees: provided, that the secretary of defense may waive this restriction on a case-by- case basis by certifying to the congressional defense committees that it is in the national interest to do so. sec. 8058. the secretary of defense shall continue to provide a classified quarterly report to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate, subcommittees on defense on certain matters as directed in the classified annex accompanying this act. sec. 8059. notwithstanding section 12310(b) of title 10, united states code, a servicemember who is a member of the national guard serving on full-time national guard duty under section 502(f) of title 32, united states code, may perform duties in support of the ground-based elements of the national ballistic missile defense system. sec. 8060. none of the funds provided in this act may be used to transfer to any nongovernmental entity ammunition held by the department of defense that has a center-fire cartridge and a united states military nomenclature designation of ``armor penetrator'', ``armor piercing (ap)'', ``armor piercing incendiary (api)'', or ``armor-piercing incendiary tracer (api-t)'', except to an entity performing demilitarization services for the department of defense under a contract that requires the entity to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the department of defense that armor piercing projectiles are either: (1) rendered incapable of reuse by the demilitarization process; or (2) used to manufacture ammunition pursuant to a contract with the department of defense or the manufacture of ammunition for export pursuant to a license for permanent export of unclassified military articles issued by the department of state. sec. 8061. notwithstanding any other provision of law, the chief of the national guard bureau, or their designee, may waive payment of all or part of the consideration that otherwise would be required under section 2667 of title 10, united states code, in the case of a lease of personal property for a period not in excess of 1 year to any organization specified in section 508(d) of title 32, united states code, or any other youth, social, or fraternal nonprofit organization as may be approved by the chief of the [[page h4369]] national guard bureau, or their designee, on a case-by-case basis. (including transfer of funds) sec. 8062. of the amounts appropriated in this act under the heading ``operation and maintenance, army'', $194,452,598 shall remain available until expended: provided, that, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of defense is authorized to transfer such funds to other activities of the federal government: provided further, that the secretary of defense is authorized to enter into and carry out contracts for the acquisition of real property, construction, personal services, and operations related to projects carrying out the purposes of this section: provided further, that contracts entered into under the authority of this section may provide for such indemnification as the secretary determines to be necessary: provided further, that projects authorized by this section shall comply with applicable federal, state, and local law to the maximum extent consistent with the national security, as determined by the secretary of defense. sec. 8063. (a) none of the funds appropriated in this or any other act may be used to take any action to modify-- (1) the appropriations account structure for the national intelligence program budget, including through the creation of a new appropriation or new appropriation account; (2) how the national intelligence program budget request is presented in the unclassified p-1, r-1, and o-1 documents supporting the department of defense budget request; (3) the process by which the national intelligence program appropriations are apportioned to the executing agencies; or (4) the process by which the national intelligence program appropriations are allotted, obligated and disbursed. (b) nothing in subsection (a) shall be construed to prohibit the merger of programs or changes to the national intelligence program budget at or below the expenditure center level, provided such change is otherwise in accordance with paragraphs (1)-(3) of subsection (a). (c) the director of national intelligence and the secretary of defense may jointly, only for the purposes of achieving auditable financial statements and improving fiscal reporting, study and develop detailed proposals for alternative financial management processes. such study shall include a comprehensive counterintelligence risk assessment to ensure that none of the alternative processes will adversely affect counterintelligence. (d) upon development of the detailed proposals defined under subsection (c), the director of national intelligence and the secretary of defense shall-- (1) provide the proposed alternatives to all affected agencies; (2) receive certification from all affected agencies attesting that the proposed alternatives will help achieve auditability, improve fiscal reporting, and will not adversely affect counterintelligence; and (3) not later than 30 days after receiving all necessary certifications under paragraph (2), present the proposed alternatives and certifications to the congressional defense and intelligence committees. (including transfer of funds) sec. 8064. during the current fiscal year, not to exceed $11,000,000 from each of the appropriations made in title ii of this act for ``operation and maintenance, army'', ``operation and maintenance, navy'', and ``operation and maintenance, air force'' may be transferred by the military department concerned to its central fund established for fisher houses and suites pursuant to section 2493(d) of title 10, united states code. (including transfer of funds) sec. 8065. in addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this act, $5,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the department of defense, to remain available for obligation until expended: provided, that notwithstanding any other provision of law, that upon the determination of the secretary of defense that it shall serve the national interest, these funds shall be available only for a grant to the fisher house foundation, inc., only for the construction and furnishing of additional fisher houses to meet the needs of military family members when confronted with the illness or hospitalization of an eligible military beneficiary. (including transfer of funds) sec. 8066. of the amounts appropriated for ``operation and maintenance, navy'', up to $1,000,000 shall be available for transfer to the john c. stennis center for public service development trust fund established under section 116 of the john c. stennis center for public service training and development act (2 u.s.c. 1105). sec. 8067. none of the funds available to the department of defense may be obligated to modify command and control relationships to give fleet forces command operational and administrative control of united states navy forces assigned to the pacific fleet: provided, that the command and control relationships which existed on october 1, 2004, shall remain in force until a written modification has been proposed to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate: provided further, that the proposed modification may be implemented 30 days after the notification unless an objection is received from either the house or senate appropriations committees: provided further, that any proposed modification shall not preclude the ability of the commander of united states indo-pacific command to meet operational requirements. sec. 8068. any notice that is required to be submitted to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate under section 3601 of title 10, united states code, as added by section 804(a) of the james m. inhofe national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2023 shall be submitted pursuant to that requirement concurrently to the subcommittees on defense of the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate. sec. 8069. of the amounts appropriated in this act under the headings ``procurement, defense-wide'' and ``research, development, test and evaluation, defense-wide'', $500,000,000 shall be for the israeli cooperative programs: provided, that of this amount, $110,000,000 shall be for the secretary of defense to provide to the government of israel for the procurement of the iron dome defense system to counter short-range rocket threats, subject to the u.s.- israel iron dome procurement agreement, as amended; $127,000,000 shall be for the short range ballistic missile defense (srbmd) program, including cruise missile defense research and development under the srbmd program; $40,000,000 shall be for co-production activities of srbmd systems in the united states and in israel to meet israel's defense requirements consistent with each nation's laws, regulations, and procedures, subject to the u.s.-israeli co-production agreement for srbmd, as amended; $50,000,000 shall be for an upper-tier component to the israeli missile defense architecture, of which $50,000,000 shall be for co-production activities of arrow 3 upper tier systems in the united states and in israel to meet israel's defense requirements consistent with each nation's laws, regulations, and procedures, subject to the u.s.-israeli co-production agreement for arrow 3 upper tier, as amended; and $173,000,000 shall be for the arrow system improvement program including development of a long range, ground and airborne, detection suite. sec. 8070. of the amounts appropriated in this act under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', $1,930,024,000 shall be available until september 30, 2025, to fund prior year shipbuilding cost increases for the following programs: (1) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2013/2025: carrier replacement program, $236,000,000; (2) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2016/2025 ddg 51 program, $10,509,000; (3) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2017/2025 virginia class submarine program, $219,370,000; (4) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2017/2025 ddg 51 program, $115,600,000; (5) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2017/2025 littoral combat ship program, $8,100,000; (6) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2017/2025 lha replacement program, $115,397,000; (7) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2018/2025 virginia class submarine program, $73,634,000; (8) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2018/2025 ddg 51 program, $107,405,000; (9) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2018/2025 littoral combat ship program, $12,000,000; (10) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2018/2025 lpd17 (flight ii) amphibious transport dock program, $19,158,000; (11) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2018/2025 oceanographic ships program, $18,000,000; (12) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2018/2025 ship to shore connector program, $14,694,000; (13) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2019/2025 littoral combat ship program, $27,900,000; (14) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2019/2025 t-ao fleet oiler program, $49,995,000; (15) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2019/2025 ship to shore connector program, $33,345,000; (16) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2020/2025 cvn refueling overhauls, $669,171,000; (17) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2020/2025 t-ao fleet oiler program, $151,837,000; (18) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2020/2025 towing, salvage, and rescue ship program, $978,000; (19) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2021/2025 towing, salvage, and rescue ship program, $17,375,000; (20) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2022/2025 t-ao fleet oiler program, $13,222,000; (21) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2022/2025 towing, salvage, and rescue ship program, $4,234,000; and (22) under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', 2023/2025 t-ao fleet oiler program, $12,100,000. sec. 8071. funds appropriated by this act for intelligence and intelligence-related activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the congress for purposes of section 504(a)(1) of the national security act of 1947 (50 u.s.c. 3094(a)(1)) until the enactment of the intelligence authorization act for fiscal year 2025. sec. 8072. none of the funds provided in this act shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that creates or initiates a new program, project, or activity unless such program, project, or activity must be undertaken immediately in the interest of national security and only after written prior notification to the congressional defense committees. sec. 8073. none of the funds in this act may be used for research, development, test, evaluation, procurement or deployment of nuclear armed interceptors of a missile defense system. [[page h4370]] sec. 8074. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be obligated or expended for the purpose of decommissioning any littoral combat ship or the u.s.s. lake erie. sec. 8075. for purposes of section 1553(b) of title 31, united states code, any subdivision of appropriations made in this act under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'' shall be considered to be for the same purpose as any subdivision under the heading ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'' appropriations in any prior fiscal year, and the 1 percent limitation shall apply to the total amount of the appropriation. sec. 8076. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act shall be used to reduce or disestablish the operation of the 53rd weather reconnaissance squadron of the air force reserve, if such action would reduce the wc-130 weather reconnaissance mission below the levels funded in this act: provided, that the air force shall allow the 53rd weather reconnaissance squadron to perform other missions in support of national defense requirements during the non-hurricane season. sec. 8077. none of the funds provided in this act shall be available for integration of foreign intelligence information unless the information has been lawfully collected and processed during the conduct of authorized foreign intelligence activities: provided, that information pertaining to united states persons shall only be handled in accordance with protections provided in the fourth amendment of the united states constitution as implemented through executive order no. 12333. sec. 8078. none of the funds appropriated by this act for programs of the office of the director of national intelligence shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, except for funds appropriated for research and technology, which shall remain available until september 30, 2026. sec. 8079. (a) not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this act, the director of national intelligence shall submit a report to the congressional intelligence committees to establish the baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer authorities for fiscal year 2025: provided, that the report shall include-- (1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column to display the president's budget request, adjustments made by congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level; (2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation by expenditure center and project; and (3) an identification of items of special congressional interest. (b) none of the funds provided for the national intelligence program in this act shall be available for reprogramming or transfer until the report identified in subsection (a) is submitted to the congressional intelligence committees, unless the director of national intelligence certifies in writing to the congressional intelligence committees that such reprogramming or transfer is necessary as an emergency requirement. sec. 8080. any transfer of amounts appropriated to the department of defense acquisition workforce development account in or for fiscal year 2025 to a military department or defense agency pursuant to section 1705(e)(1) of title 10, united states code, shall be covered by and subject to section 8005 of this act. sec. 8081. (a) none of the funds provided for the national intelligence program in this or any prior appropriations act shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming or transfer of funds in accordance with section 102a(d) of the national security act of 1947 (50 u.s.c. 3024(d)) that-- (1) creates a new start effort; (2) terminates a program with appropriated funding of $10,000,000 or more; (3) transfers funding into or out of the national intelligence program; or (4) transfers funding between appropriations, unless the congressional intelligence committees are notified 30 days in advance of such reprogramming of funds; this notification period may be reduced for urgent national security requirements. (b) none of the funds provided for the national intelligence program in this or any prior appropriations act shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming or transfer of funds in accordance with section 102a(d) of the national security act of 1947 (50 u.s.c. 3024(d)) that results in a cumulative increase or decrease of the levels specified in the classified annex accompanying the act unless the congressional intelligence committees are notified 30 days in advance of such reprogramming of funds; this notification period may be reduced for urgent national security requirements. sec. 8082. (a) any agency receiving funds made available in this act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public website of that agency any report required to be submitted by the congress in this or any other act, upon the determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve the national interest. (b) subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if-- (1) the public posting of the report compromises national security; or (2) the report contains proprietary information. (c) the head of the agency posting such report shall do so only after such report has been made available to the requesting committee or committees of congress for no less than 45 days. sec. 8083. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be expended for any federal contract for an amount in excess of $1,000,000, unless the contractor agrees not to-- (1) enter into any agreement with any of its employees or independent contractors that requires, as a condition of employment, that the employee or independent contractor agree to resolve through arbitration any claim under title vii of the civil rights act of 1964 or any tort related to or arising out of sexual assault or harassment, including assault and battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, false imprisonment, or negligent hiring, supervision, or retention; or (2) take any action to enforce any provision of an existing agreement with an employee or independent contractor that mandates that the employee or independent contractor resolve through arbitration any claim under title vii of the civil rights act of 1964 or any tort related to or arising out of sexual assault or harassment, including assault and battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, false imprisonment, or negligent hiring, supervision, or retention. (b) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be expended for any federal contract unless the contractor certifies that it requires each covered subcontractor to agree not to enter into, and not to take any action to enforce any provision of, any agreement as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), with respect to any employee or independent contractor performing work related to such subcontract. for purposes of this subsection, a ``covered subcontractor'' is an entity that has a subcontract in excess of $1,000,000 on a contract subject to subsection (a). (c) the prohibitions in this section do not apply with respect to a contractor's or subcontractor's agreements with employees or independent contractors that may not be enforced in a court of the united states. (d) the secretary of defense may waive the application of subsection (a) or (b) to a particular contractor or subcontractor for the purposes of a particular contract or subcontract if the secretary or the deputy secretary personally determines that the waiver is necessary to avoid harm to national security interests of the united states, and that the term of the contract or subcontract is not longer than necessary to avoid such harm. the determination shall set forth with specificity the grounds for the waiver and for the contract or subcontract term selected, and shall state any alternatives considered in lieu of a waiver and the reasons each such alternative would not avoid harm to national security interests of the united states. the secretary of defense shall transmit to congress, and simultaneously make public, any determination under this subsection not less than 15 business days before the contract or subcontract addressed in the determination may be awarded. (including transfer of funds) sec. 8084. from within the funds appropriated for operation and maintenance for the defense health program in this act, up to $162,500,000, shall be available for transfer to the joint department of defense-department of veterans affairs medical facility demonstration fund in accordance with the provisions of section 1704 of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2010, public law 111-84: provided, that for purposes of section 1704(b), the facility operations funded are operations of the integrated captain james a. lovell federal health care center, consisting of the north chicago veterans affairs medical center, the navy ambulatory care center, and supporting facilities designated as a combined federal medical facility as described by section 706 of public law 110-417: provided further, that additional funds may be transferred from funds appropriated for operation and maintenance for the defense health program to the joint department of defense-department of veterans affairs medical facility demonstration fund upon written notification by the secretary of defense to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate. sec. 8085. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used by the department of defense or a component thereof in contravention of the provisions of section 130h of title 10, united states code. sec. 8086. notwithstanding price or other limitations applicable to the purchase of passenger carrying vehicles, appropriations available to the department of defense may be used for the purchase of: (1) heavy and light armored vehicles for the physical security of personnel or for force protection purposes up to a limit of $450,000 per vehicle; and (2) passenger motor vehicles up to a limit of $75,000 per vehicle for use by military and civilian employees of the department of defense in the united states central command area of responsibility. (including transfer of funds) sec. 8087. upon a determination by the director of national intelligence that such action is necessary and in the national interest, the director may, with the approval of the director of the office of management and budget, transfer not to exceed $1,500,000,000 of the funds made available in this act for the national intelligence program: provided, that such authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher priority items, based on unforeseen intelligence requirements, than those for which originally appropriated and in no case where the item for which funds are requested has been denied by the congress: provided further, that a request for multiple reprogrammings of funds using authority provided in this section shall be made prior to june 30, 2025. sec. 8088. of the amounts appropriated in this act for ``shipbuilding and conversion, navy'', $204,939,000, to remain available for obligation until september 30, 2029, may be used for the purchase of two used sealift vessels for the national defense reserve fleet, established under section 11 of the merchant ship sales act of [[page h4371]] 1946 (46 u.s.c. 57100): provided, that such amounts are available for reimbursements to the ready reserve force, maritime administration account of the united states department of transportation for programs, projects, activities, and expenses related to the national defense reserve fleet: provided further, that notwithstanding section 2218 of title 10, united states code, none of these funds shall be transferred to the national defense sealift fund for execution. sec. 8089. the secretary of defense shall post grant awards on a public website in a searchable format. sec. 8090. none of the funds made available by this act may be used by the national security agency to-- (1) conduct an acquisition pursuant to section 702 of the foreign intelligence surveillance act of 1978 for the purpose of targeting a united states person; or (2) acquire, monitor, or store the contents (as such term is defined in section 2510(8) of title 18, united states code) of any electronic communication of a united states person from a provider of electronic communication services to the public pursuant to section 501 of the foreign intelligence surveillance act of 1978. sec. 8091. none of the funds made available in this or any other act may be used to pay the salary of any officer or employee of any agency funded by this act who approves or implements the transfer of administrative responsibilities or budgetary resources of any program, project, or activity financed by this act to the jurisdiction of another federal agency not financed by this act without the express authorization of congress: provided, that this limitation shall not apply to transfers of funds expressly provided for in department of defense appropriations acts, or provisions of acts providing supplemental appropriations for the department of defense. sec. 8092. of the amounts appropriated in this act for ``operation and maintenance, navy'', $769,047,000, to remain available until expended, may be used for any purposes related to the national defense reserve fleet established under section 11 of the merchant ship sales act of 1946 (46 u.s.c. 57100): provided, that such amounts are available for reimbursements to the ready reserve force, maritime administration account of the united states department of transportation for programs, projects, activities, and expenses related to the national defense reserve fleet. sec. 8093. (a) none of the funds provided in this act for the tao fleet oiler program shall be used to award a new contract that provides for the acquisition of the following components unless those components are manufactured in the united states: auxiliary equipment (including pumps) for shipboard services; propulsion equipment (including engines, reduction gears, and propellers); shipboard cranes; spreaders for shipboard cranes; and anchor chains, specifically for the seventh and subsequent ships of the fleet. (b) none of the funds provided in this act for the ffg(x) frigate program shall be used to award a new contract that provides for the acquisition of the following components unless those components are manufactured in the united states: air circuit breakers; gyrocompasses; electronic navigation chart systems; steering controls; pumps; propulsion and machinery control systems; totally enclosed lifeboats; auxiliary equipment pumps; shipboard cranes; auxiliary chill water systems; and propulsion propellers: provided, that the secretary of the navy shall incorporate united states manufactured propulsion engines and propulsion reduction gears into the ffg(x) frigate program beginning not later than with the eleventh ship of the program. sec. 8094. none of the funds provided in this act for requirements development, performance specification development, concept design and development, ship configuration development, systems engineering, naval architecture, marine engineering, operations research analysis, industry studies, preliminary design, development of the detailed design and construction request for proposals solicitation package, or related activities for the t-arc(x) cable laying and repair ship or the t-agos(x) oceanographic surveillance ship may be used to award a new contract for such activities unless these contracts include specifications that all auxiliary equipment, including pumps and propulsion shafts, are manufactured in the united states. sec. 8095. no amounts credited or otherwise made available in this or any other act to the department of defense acquisition workforce development account may be transferred to: (1) the rapid prototyping fund established under section 804(d) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2016 (10 u.s.c. 2302 note); or (2) credited to a military-department specific fund established under section 804(d)(2) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2016 (as amended by section 897 of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2017). sec. 8096. none of the funds made available by this act may be used for government travel charge card expenses by military or civilian personnel of the department of defense for gaming, or for entertainment that includes topless or nude entertainers or participants, as prohibited by department of defense instruction 1015.10 (enclosures 3 and 14b). sec. 8097. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network is designed to block access to pornography websites. (b) nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary for any federal, state, tribal, or local law enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities, or for any activity necessary for the national defense, including intelligence activities. sec. 8098. none of the funds provided for, or otherwise made available, in this or any other act, may be obligated or expended by the secretary of defense to provide motorized vehicles, aviation platforms, munitions other than small arms and munitions appropriate for customary ceremonial honors, operational military units, or operational military platforms if the secretary determines that providing such units, platforms, or equipment would undermine the readiness of such units, platforms, or equipment. sec. 8099. (a) none of the funds made available by this or any other act may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to any corporation that has any unpaid federal tax liability that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for collecting such tax liability, provided that the applicable federal agency is aware of the unpaid federal tax liability. (b) subsection (a) shall not apply if the applicable federal agency has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation described in such subsection and has made a determination that such suspension or debarment is not necessary to protect the interests of the federal government. sec. 8100. (a) amounts appropriated under title iv of this act, as detailed in budget activity eight in the tables titled explanation of project level adjustments in the explanatory statement regarding this act, may be used for expenses for the agile research, development, test and evaluation, procurement, production, modification, and operation and maintenance, only for the following software and digital technology pilot programs-- (1) defensive cyber (pe 0608041a); (2) risk management information (pe 0608013n); (3) maritime tactical command and control (pe 0608231n); (4) space domain awareness/planning/tasking sw (pe 1208248sf); (5) global command and control system (pe 0303150k); (6) acquisition visibility (pe 0608648d8z); and (7) cyber operations technology support (pe 0306250jcy). (b) none of the funds appropriated by this or prior department of defense appropriations acts may be obligated or expended to initiate additional software and digital technology pilot programs in fiscal year 2025. sec. 8101. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to transfer the national reconnaissance office to the space force: provided, that nothing in this act shall be construed to limit or prohibit cooperation, collaboration, and coordination between the national reconnaissance office and the space force or any other elements of the department of defense. sec. 8102. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to transfer any federal mission, covered member of the national guard (as defined in section 1733(g) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2024 (public law 118-31)), or covered space function of the national guard (as defined in section 924(e) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2024 (public law 118-31)), from the national guard to the united states space force in contravention of section 104 of title 32, united states code, or section 18238 of title 10, united states code. sec. 8103. none of the funds made available in this act may be used in contravention of the following laws enacted or regulations promulgated to implement the united nations convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (done at new york on december 10, 1984): (1) section 2340a of title 18, united states code. (2) section 2242 of the foreign affairs reform and restructuring act of 1998 (division g of public law 105-277; 112 stat. 2681-822; 8 u.s.c. 1231 note) and regulations prescribed thereto, including regulations under part 208 of title 8, code of federal regulations, and part 95 of title 22, code of federal regulations. (3) sections 1002 and 1003 of the department of defense, emergency supplemental appropriations to address hurricanes in the gulf of mexico, and pandemic influenza act, 2006 (public law 109-148). sec. 8104. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to provide arms, training, intelligence, or other assistance to the azov battalion, the third separate assault brigade, or any successor organization. sec. 8105. during the current fiscal year, the department of defense is authorized to incur obligations of not to exceed $350,000,000 for purposes specified in section 2350j(c) of title 10, united states code, in anticipation of receipt of contributions, only from the government of kuwait, under that section: provided, that, such contributions shall, upon receipt, be credited to the appropriations or fund which incurred such obligations. sec. 8106. of the amounts appropriated in this act under the heading ``operation and maintenance, defense-wide'', for the defense security cooperation agency, $1,423,630,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026, shall be available for international security cooperation programs and other programs to provide support and assistance to foreign security forces or other [[page h4372]] groups or individuals to conduct, support or facilitate counterterrorism, crisis response, or building partner capacity programs: provided, that the secretary of defense shall, not less than 15 days prior to obligating funds made available in this section, notify the congressional defense committees in writing of the details of any planned obligation: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall provide quarterly reports to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate on the use and status of funds made available in this section. sec. 8107. of the amounts appropriated in this act under the heading ``operation and maintenance, defense-wide'', for the defense security cooperation agency, $61,406,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026, shall be for payments to reimburse key cooperating nations for logistical, military, and other support, including access, provided to united states military and stability operations to counter the islamic state of iraq and syria: provided, that such reimbursement payments may be made in such amounts as the secretary of defense, with the concurrence of the secretary of state, and in consultation with the director of the office of management and budget, may determine, based on documentation determined by the secretary of defense to adequately account for the support provided, and such determination is final and conclusive upon the accounting officers of the united states, and 15 days following written notification to the appropriate congressional committees: provided further, that these funds may be used for the purpose of providing specialized training and procuring supplies and specialized equipment and providing such supplies and loaning such equipment on a non-reimbursable basis to coalition forces supporting united states military and stability operations to counter the islamic state of iraq and syria, and 15 days following written notification to the appropriate congressional committees: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall provide quarterly reports to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate on the use and status of funds made available in this section. sec. 8108. of the amounts appropriated in this act under the heading ``operation and maintenance, defense-wide'', for the defense security cooperation agency, $380,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026, shall be available for support authorized by subparagraphs (a) through (e) of section 1226(a)(1) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2016 (22 u.s.c. 2151 note), of which not less than $150,000,000 shall be for support authorized by subparagraph (a) of such section: provided, that the secretary of defense shall, not less than 15 days prior to obligating funds made available in this section, notify the congressional defense committees in writing of the details of any planned obligation and the nature of the expenses incurred: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall provide quarterly reports to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate on the use and status of funds made available in this section. sec. 8109. the secretary of defense shall, not less than 15 days prior to taking any action to pause, suspend, or eliminate assistance to a country made available by this act or prior acts making appropriations for the department of defense, notify the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate. sec. 8110. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used in contravention of the war powers resolution (50 u.s.c. 1541 et seq.). sec. 8111. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act for excess defense articles, assistance under section 333 of title 10, united states code, or peacekeeping operations for the countries designated annually to be in violation of the standards of the child soldiers prevention act of 2008 (public law 110-457; 22 u.s.c. 2370c-1) may be used to support any military training or operation that includes child soldiers, as defined by the child soldiers prevention act of 2008, unless such assistance is otherwise permitted under section 404 of the child soldiers prevention act of 2008. sec. 8112. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available for any member of hamas, hezbollah, the houthis, or the taliban. sec. 8113. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available for the united nations relief and works agency. sec. 8114. notwithstanding any other provision of law, any transfer of funds, appropriated or otherwise made available by this act, for support to friendly foreign countries in connection with the conduct of operations in which the united states is not participating, pursuant to section 331(d) of title 10, united states code, shall be made in accordance with section 8005 of this act. sec. 8115. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other act may be used by the secretary of defense, or any other official or officer of the department of defense, to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative agreement with, or make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to rosoboronexport or any subsidiary of rosoboronexport. (b) the secretary of defense may waive the limitation in subsection (a) if the secretary, in consultation with the secretary of state and the director of national intelligence, determines that it is in the vital national security interest of the united states to do so, and certifies in writing to the congressional defense committees that-- (1) rosoboronexport has ceased the transfer of lethal military equipment to, and the maintenance of existing lethal military equipment for, the government of the syrian arab republic; (2) the armed forces of the russian federation have withdrawn from ukraine; and (3) agents of the russian federation have ceased taking active measures to destabilize the control of the government of ukraine over eastern ukraine. (c) the inspector general of the department of defense shall conduct a review of any action involving rosoboronexport with respect to a waiver issued by the secretary of defense pursuant to subsection (b), and not later than 90 days after the date on which such a waiver is issued by the secretary of defense, the inspector general shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing the results of the review conducted with respect to such waiver. sec. 8116. the secretary of defense shall notify the congressional defense committees in writing not more than 30 days after the receipt of any contribution of funds received from the government of a foreign country for any purpose relating to the stationing or operations of the united states armed forces: provided, that such notification shall include the amount of the contribution; the purpose for which such contribution was made; and the authority under which such contribution was accepted by the secretary of defense: provided further, that not fewer than 15 days prior to obligating such funds, the secretary of defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees in writing a notification of the planned use of such contributions, including whether such contributions would support existing or new stationing or operations of the united states armed forces. sec. 8117. (a) the chairman of the joint chiefs, in coordination with the secretaries of the military departments and the chiefs of the armed forces, shall submit to the congressional defense committees, not later than 30 days after the last day of each quarter of the fiscal year, a report on the use of operation and maintenance funds for activities or exercises in excess of $5,000,000 that have been designated by the secretary of defense as unplanned activities for fiscal year 2025. (b) each report required by subsection (a) shall also include-- (1) the title, date, and location, of each activity and exercise covered by the report; (2) an identification of the military department and units that participated in each such activity or exercise (including an estimate of the number of participants); (3) the total cost of the activity or exercise, by budget line item (with a breakdown by cost element such as transportation); and (4) a short explanation of the objective of the activity or exercise. (c) the report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex. sec. 8118. concurrent with any exercise of the drawdown authority provided by section 506 of the foreign assistance act of 1961 (22 u.s.c. 2318), the secretary of defense shall submit a written report to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate that contains a description of the defense articles and defense services to be furnished, including the quantity, approximate value, and a timeline for the delivery of such defense articles and defense services, as well as an estimate of the cost to replace such article or an equivalent capability. sec. 8119. not later than 15 days after the date on which any foreign base that involves the stationing or operations of the united states armed forces, including a temporary base, permanent base, or base owned and operated by a foreign country, is opened or closed, the secretary of defense shall notify the congressional defense committees in writing of the opening or closing of such base: provided, that such notification shall also include information on any personnel changes, costs, and savings associated with the opening or closing of such base. sec. 8120. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other act shall be obligated or expended by the united states government for any of the following purposes: (1) to establish any military installation or base for the purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of united states armed forces in iraq. (2) to exercise united states control over any oil resource of iraq or syria. sec. 8121. up to $500,000,000 of the funds appropriated by this act under the heading ``operation and maintenance, defense-wide'' for the defense security cooperation agency may be used to support the armed forces of jordan. sec. 8122. not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, united states southern command shall assume combatant command responsibility for activities related to mexico. sec. 8123. the total amount appropriated or otherwise made available in title ii of this act is hereby reduced by $500,000,000 to limit excessive growth in the procurement of advisory and assistance services, as follows: ``operation and maintenance, army'', $138,000,000; ``operation and maintenance, navy'', $68,000,000; ``operation and maintenance, marine corps'', $52,000,000; ``operation and maintenance, air force'', $77,000,000; ``operation and maintenance, space force'', $9,500,000; ``operation and maintenance, defense-wide'', $143,000,000; and ``operation and maintenance, army national guard'', $12,500,000: provided, that this section shall not apply to appropriations for the national intelligence program and military intelligence program. [[page h4373]] sec. 8124. the total amount appropriated or otherwise made available in title ii of this act is hereby reduced by $100,000,000 to reflect savings attributable to efficiencies and management improvements in the funding of miscellaneous or other contracts in the military departments, as follows: ``operation and maintenance, army'', $21,000,000; ``operation and maintenance, navy'', $25,000,000; ``operation and maintenance, marine corps'', $3,500,000; ``operation and maintenance, air force'', $22,000,000; ``operation and maintenance, space force'', $1,700,000; and ``operation and maintenance, defense-wide'', $26,800,000: provided, that this section shall not apply to appropriations for the national intelligence program and military intelligence program. sec. 8125. the amounts appropriated in title ii of this act are hereby reduced by $300,000,000 to reflect excess cash balances in department of defense working capital funds, as follows: (1) from ``operation and maintenance, army'', $150,000,000; and (2) from ``operation and maintenance, navy'', $150,000,000. sec. 8126. notwithstanding any other provision of this act, to reflect savings due to favorable foreign exchange rates, the total amount appropriated in this act is hereby reduced by $250,000,000. sec. 8127. (a) within 45 days of enactment of this act, the secretary of defense shall allocate amounts made available from the creating helpful incentives to produce semiconductors (chips) for america defense fund for fiscal year 2025 pursuant to the transfer authority in section 102(b)(1) of the chips act of 2022 (division a of public law 117-167), to the account specified, in the amounts specified, and for the projects and activities specified, in the table titled ``department of defense allocation of funds: chips and science act fiscal year 2025'' in the explanatory statement regarding this act. (b) neither the president nor his designee may allocate any amounts that are made available for any fiscal year under section 102(b)(2) of the chips act of 2022 if there is in effect an act making or continuing appropriations for part of a fiscal year for the department of defense: provided, that in any fiscal year, the matter preceding this proviso shall not apply to the allocation, apportionment, or allotment of amounts for continuing administration of programs allocated using funds transferred from the chips for america defense fund, which may be allocated pursuant to the transfer authority in section 102(b)(1) of the chips act of 2022 only in amounts that are no more than the allocation for such purposes in subsection (a) of this section. (c) the secretary of defense may reallocate funds allocated by subsection (a) of this section, subject to the terms and conditions contained in the provisos in section 8005 of this act: provided, that amounts may be reallocated pursuant to this subsection only for those requirements necessary to carry out section 9903(b) of the william m. (mac) thornberry national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2021 (public law 116-283). (d) concurrent with the annual budget submission of the president for fiscal year 2026, the secretary of defense shall submit to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate proposed allocations by account and by program, project, or activity, with detailed justifications, for amounts made available under section 102(b)(2) of the chips act of 2022 for fiscal year 2026. (e) the department of defense shall provide the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and senate quarterly reports on the status of balances of projects and activities funded by the chips for america defense fund for amounts allocated pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, including all uncommitted, committed, and unobligated funds. sec. 8128. in carrying out the program described in the memorandum on the subject of ``policy for assisted reproductive services for the benefit of seriously or severely ill/injured (category ii or iii) active duty service members'' issued by the assistant secretary of defense for health affairs on april 3, 2012, and the guidance issued to implement such memorandum, the secretary of defense shall apply such policy and guidance, except that-- (1) the limitation on periods regarding embryo cryopreservation and storage set forth in part iii(g) and in part iv(h) of such memorandum shall not apply; and (2) the term ``assisted reproductive technology'' shall include embryo cryopreservation and storage without limitation on the duration of such cryopreservation and storage. sec. 8129. the secretary of defense may obligate funds made available in this act for procurement or for research, development, test and evaluation for the f-35 joint strike fighter to modify up to six f-35 aircraft, including up to two f-35 aircraft of each variant, to a test configuration: provided, that the secretary of defense shall, with the concurrence of the secretary of the air force and the secretary of the navy, notify the congressional defense committees not fewer than 30 days prior to obligating funds under this section: provided further, that any transfer of funds pursuant to the authority provided in this section shall be made in accordance with section 8005 of this act. sec. 8130. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this or any other act may be obligated to integrate an alternative engine on any f-35 aircraft. sec. 8131. the secretary of defense may use up to $650,000,000 of the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in this act to the department of defense for the rapid acquisition and deployment of supplies and associated support services pursuant to section 3601 of title 10, united states code, but only for the purposes specified in clauses (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of subsection (c)(3)(b) of such section and subject to the applicable limits specified in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of such subsection and, in the case of clause (iv) of such subsection, subject to a limit of $50,000,000, or for the purposes specified in section 229 of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2024 (public law 118-31) and subject to a limit of $100,000,000: provided, that the secretary of defense shall notify the congressional defense committees promptly of all uses of this authority. sec. 8132. there is appropriated to the ``department of defense credit program account'' established pursuant to section 903(b)(5) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2024 (public law 118-31), $89,049,000, to remain available until expended, for the cost of loans and loan guarantees pursuant to section 903(b) of such act for a pilot program on capital assistance to support defense investment in the industrial base, of which up to $7,900,000 may be used for administrative expenses to carry out the capital assistance and technical assistance programs authorized by such section: provided, that such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the congressional budget act of 1974: provided further, that such amounts are available to subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans, and total loan principal, any part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $8,000,000,000: provided further, that the secretary of defense may assess administrative fees to recover all, or a portion, of the costs to administer loan and loan guarantees authorized under such section 903(b), and may credit fee receipts to the department of defense credit program account, to be available until expended to cover such expenses: provided further, that, for the purposes of carrying out the congressional budget act of 1974, the director of the congressional budget office may request, and the secretary shall promptly provide, documentation and information relating to a project identified by the department of defense pursuant to a notice of funding availability for applications for credit assistance under such section 903(b). sec. 8133. notwithstanding section 8055 of this act, amounts appropriated under the heading ``research, development, test and evaluation, defense-wide'' of this act, as detailed in budget activity eight in the tables titled explanation of project level adjustments in the explanatory statement regarding this act for ``defense innovation unit (diu) fielding'' line 294a, that exceed the amounts requested may be used for expenses for agile research, development, test and evaluation, procurement, production, modification, and operation and maintenance requirements, including the initial acquisition of end-items for operational use: provided, that none of these funds may be obligated or expended until 15 days after the secretary of defense provides the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate a detailed execution plan for such funds. sec. 8134. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to support, directly or indirectly, the wuhan institute of virology, or any laboratory owned or controlled by the governments of the people's republic of china, the republic of cuba, the islamic republic of iran, the democratic people's republic of korea, the russian federation, the bolivarian republic of venezuela under the maduro regime, or any other country determined by the secretary of defense, with the concurrence of the secretary of state, to be a foreign adversary. sec. 8135. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to fund any work to be performed by ecohealth alliance, inc. sec. 8136. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this or any other act may be used to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release to or within the united states, its territories, or possessions khalid sheikh mohammed or any other detainee who-- (1) is not a united states citizen or a member of the armed forces of the united states; and (2) is or was held on or after june 24, 2009, at united states naval station, guantanamo bay, cuba, by the department of defense. sec. 8137. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this act may be used to transfer any individual detained at united states naval station guantanamo bay, cuba, to the custody or control of the individual's country of origin, any other foreign country, or any other foreign entity except in accordance with section 1034 of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2016 (public law 114-92) and section 1035 of the john s. mccain national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2019 (public law 115-232). sec. 8138. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this or any other act may be used to construct, acquire, or modify any facility in the united states, its territories, or possessions to house any individual described in subsection (c) for the purposes of detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the effective control of the department of defense. (b) the prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any modification of facilities at united states naval station, guantanamo bay, cuba. (c) an individual described in this subsection is any individual who, as of june 24, 2009, is located at united states naval station, guantanamo bay, cuba, and who-- (1) is not a citizen of the united states or a member of the armed forces of the united states; and (2) is-- (a) in the custody or under the effective control of the department of defense; or [[page h4374]] (b) otherwise under detention at united states naval station, guantanamo bay, cuba. sec. 8139. none of the funds made available by this act may be used to carry out the closure or realignment of the united states naval station, guantanamo bay, cuba. sec. 8140. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to remove a chinese military company from the list required by section 1260h of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2021 (public law 116-283), except in accordance with subsection (b)(3) of such section and 15 days following written notification to the congressional defense committees. sec. 8141. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to enforce any covid- 19 mask mandates. sec. 8142. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to require a member of the armed forces or a civilian employee of the department of defense to receive a vaccination against covid-19. sec. 8143. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to require vaccination against covid-19 as a prerequisite for student attendance at a department of defense education activity school. sec. 8144. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used, with regards to a member of the armed forces with a minor dependent child enrolled in an exceptional family member program (efmp)-- (1) to provide gender transition procedures, including surgery or medication, to such child through such efmp; (2) to provide a referral for a procedure described in paragraph (1) to such child through such efmp; or (3) to approve a change of duty station for such member through such efmp for the purpose of providing such child with access to procedures described in paragraph (1). sec. 8145. (a) in general.--notwithstanding section 7 of title 1, united states code, section 1738c of title 28, united states code, or any other provision of law, none of the funds provided by this act, or previous appropriations acts, shall be used in whole or in part to take any discriminatory action against a person, wholly or partially, on the basis that such person speaks, or acts, in accordance with a sincerely held religious belief, or moral conviction, that marriage is, or should be recognized as, a union of one man and one woman. (b) discriminatory action defined.--as used in subsection (a), a discriminatory action means any action taken by the federal government to-- (1) alter in any way the federal tax treatment of, or cause any tax, penalty, or payment to be assessed against, or deny, delay, or revoke an exemption from taxation under section 501(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986 of, any person referred to in subsection (a); (2) disallow a deduction for federal tax purposes of any charitable contribution made to or by such person; (3) withhold, reduce the amount or funding for, exclude, terminate, or otherwise make unavailable or deny, any federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, guarantee, loan, scholarship, license, certification, accreditation, employment, or other similar position or status from or to such person; (4) withhold, reduce, exclude, terminate, or otherwise make unavailable or deny, any entitlement or benefit under a federal benefit program, including admission to, equal treatment in, or eligibility for a degree from an educational program, from or to such person; or (5) withhold, reduce, exclude, terminate, or otherwise make unavailable or deny access or an entitlement to federal property, facilities, educational institutions, speech fora (including traditional, limited, and nonpublic fora), or charitable fundraising campaigns from or to such person. (c) accreditation; licensure; certification.--the federal government shall consider accredited, licensed, or certified for purposes of federal law any person that would be accredited, licensed, or certified, respectively, for such purposes but for a determination against such person wholly or partially on the basis that the person speaks, or acts, in accordance with a sincerely held religious belief or moral conviction described in subsection (a). sec. 8146. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to grant, renew, or maintain a security clearance for any individual listed as a signatory in the statement titled ``public statement on the hunter biden emails'' dated october 19, 2020. sec. 8147. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to-- (1) classify or facilitate the classification of any communications by a united states person as mis-, dis-, or mal- information; or (2) partner with or fund nonprofit or other organizations that pressure or recommend private companies to censor lawful and constitutionally protected speech of united states persons, including recommending the censoring or removal of content on social media platforms. sec. 8148. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to carry out any program, project, or activity that promotes or advances critical race theory, any concept associated with critical race theory, or that teaches or trains any idea or concept that condones an individual being discriminated against or receiving adverse or beneficial treatment based on race or sex, that condones an individual feeling discomfort, guilt, anguish, or any other form of psychological distress on account of that individual's race or sex, as well as any idea or concept that regards one race as inherently superior to another race, the united states or its institutions as being systemically racist or sexist, an individual as being inherently racist, sexist, or oppressive by virtue of that individual's race or sex, an individual's moral character as being necessarily determined by race or sex, an individual as bearing responsibility for actions committed in the past by other members of the same race or sex, or meritocracy being racist, sexist, or having been created by a particular race to oppress another race. sec. 8149. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to finalize, promulgate, or implement the rule proposed by the department of defense titled ``federal acquisition regulation: disclosure of greenhouse gas emissions and climate-related financial risk'' (87 fed. reg. 68312; november 14, 2022), or to propose, promulgate, or implement any substantially similar rule or policy. sec. 8150. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act shall be used to implement, administer, or otherwise carry out the department of defense memorandum dated october 20, 2022, or any successor to such memorandum, or to propose, promulgate, or implement any substantially similar rule or policy. sec. 8151. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used or transferred to another federal agency, board, or commission to recruit, hire, or promote any person who has been convicted of a federal or state child pornography charge, has been convicted of any other federal or state sexual assault charge, or has been formally disciplined for using federal resources to access, use, or sell child pornography. sec. 8152. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to promote, host, facilitate, or support events on united states military installations or as part of military recruiting programs that violate the department of defense joint ethics regulation or bring discredit upon the military, such as a drag queen story hour for children or the use of drag queens as military recruiters. sec. 8153. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used for surgical procedures or hormone therapies for the purposes of gender affirming care. sec. 8154. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to carry out section 147 of title 10, united states code, and sections 554(a) and 913(b) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2021 (public law 116-283). sec. 8155. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to implement, administer, apply, enforce, or carry out the diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility strategic plan of the department of defense, or executive order 13985 of january 20, 2021 (86 fed. reg. 7009, relating to advancing racial equity and support for under-served communities through the federal government), executive order 14035 of june 25, 2021 (86 fed. reg. 34593, relating to diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility in the federal workforce), executive order 14091 of february 16, 2023 (88 fed. reg. 10825, relating to further advancing racial equity and support for underserved communities through the federal government), or shall be used to execute activities that promote or perpetuate divisive concepts related to race or sex, such as the concepts that one race or sex is inherently superior to another, or that an individual's moral character or worth is determined by their race or sex. sec. 8156. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to pay for the costs of teleworking or remote working for any employee or contractor of the department of defense on a regular and recurring basis. sec. 8157. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to provide assistance to the department of homeland security to house persons on a military installation located in the united states. sec. 8158. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used for any office of diversity, equity, or inclusion. sec. 8159. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to newsguard technologies inc. sec. 8160. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to implement any of the following executive orders: (1) executive order no. 13990, relating to protecting public health and the environment and restoring science to tackle the climate crisis. (2) executive order no. 14008, relating to tackling the climate crisis at home and abroad. (3) section 6 of executive order no. 14013, relating to rebuilding and enhancing programs to resettle refugees and planning for the impact of climate change on migration. (4) executive order no. 14030, relating to climate-related financial risk. (5) executive order no. 14057, relating to catalyzing clean energy industries and jobs through federal sustainability. (6) executive order no. 14082, relating to implementation of the energy and infrastructure provisions of the inflation reduction act of 2022. (7) executive order no. 14096, relating to revitalizing our nation's commitment to environmental justice for all. sec. 8161. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used in contravention of department of defense instruction 3216.01, ``use of animals in dod conducted and supported research and training'', dated march 20, 2019. sec. 8162. from amounts appropriated or otherwise made available by title ii of this act [[page h4375]] under the heading ``operation and maintenance, air force'', the secretary of defense may reimburse the federated states of micronesia in an amount not to exceed $34,000,000 for land acquisition costs for defense sites in yap: provided, that the secretary shall, not less than 15 days prior to making such reimbursement, notify the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate in writing of the details of any proposed reimbursement. sec. 8163. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to divest or prepare to divest any u-2 aircraft. sec. 8164. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to divest or prepare to divest any f-15 aircraft unless the secretary of defense certifies to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate that such aircraft will be replaced in a manner that maintains the current total aircraft assigned at a given unit and the readiness of such unit. (including transfer of funds) sec. 8165. the secretary of defense may transfer funds from any available department of the navy appropriation (except military construction) to any available navy ship construction appropriation for the purpose of liquidating necessary changes resulting from inflation, market fluctuations, or rate adjustments for any ship construction program appropriated in law: provided, that the secretary may transfer not to exceed $20,000,000 under the authority provided by this section: provided further, that the secretary shall, not less than 30 days prior to the transfer of any funds, notify the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate in writing of the details of any proposed transfer: provided further, that any funds transferred pursuant to this section shall retain the same period of availability as when originally appropriated: provided further, that the transfer authority provided under this section is in addition to any other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this act. sec. 8166. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to withhold, halt, reverse, or cancel the delivery of defense articles or defense services from the united states to israel. (b) any defense article and defense service withheld from delivery to israel by the department of defense as of the date of the enactment of this act shall be delivered to israel not later than 15 days after the date of the enactment of this act. (c) notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of defense shall obligate any remaining unobligated balances of funds appropriated or otherwise made available before the date of the enactment of this act for the department of defense for assistance for israel not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this act. sec. 8167. none of the funds made available by this act or any other act may be made available for-- (1) the joint logistics over-the-shore capabilities in the vicinity of gaza; or (2) the construction, assembly, maintenance, or operation, of any pier, dock, landing, wharf, or any other structure in the vicinity of gaza. sec. 8168. none of the funds made available by this act or any other act may be used for hiring practices based on gender, religion, political affiliation, or race. sec. 8169. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used in contravention of section 1052 of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2024. spending reduction account sec. 8170. $0. this act may be cited as the ``department of defense appropriations act, 2025''. the acting chair. no further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order except those printed in part a of house report 118-559, amendments en bloc described in section 3 of house resolution 1316, and pro forma amendments described in section 4 of that resolution. each further amendment printed in part a of the report shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment except as provided by section 4 of house resolution 1316, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question. it shall be in order at any time for the chair of the committee on appropriations or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of further amendments printed in part a of house report 118-559 not earlier disposed of. amendments en bloc offered pursuant to section 3 of house resolution 1316 shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on appropriations or their respective designees, shall not be subject to amendment except as described in section 4 of house resolution 1316, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question. during consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on appropriations or their respective designees may offer up to 10 pro forma amendments each at any point for the purpose of debate. amendments en bloc no. 1 offered by mr. calvert of california mr. calvert. mr. chair, pursuant to house resolution 1316, i offer amendments en bloc. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendments en bloc. amendments en bloc no. 1 consisting of amendment nos. 3, 6, 14, 18, 28, 31, 34, 42, 43, 44, 59, 75, 76, 80, 88, 89, 93, 95, 98, 99, 102, 104, 117, 119, 124, 125, 131, 134, 141, 143, 144, 146, 149, 155, 160, 161, 162, 182, 184, 185, 186, and 189, printed in part a of house report 118-559, offered by mr. calvert of california: amendment no. 3 offered by mr. amo of rhode island page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $8,000,000) (reduced by $8,000,000)''. amendment no. 6 offered by mr. bacon of nebraska page 9, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 14 offered by mr. bilirakis of florida page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $4,500,000) (increased by $4,500,000)''. amendment no. 18 offered by mr. buchanan of florida page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000)''. amendment no. 28 offered by ms. castor of florida page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 31 offered by mr. cohen of tennessee page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $8,000,000) (increased by $8,000,000)''. amendment no. 34 offered by mr. davis of north carolina page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $8,000,000) (increased by $8,000,000)''. amendment no. 42 offered by mr. fallon of texas page 27, line 7, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $25,000,000) (increased by $25,000,000)''. amendment no. 43 offered by mr. fallon of texas page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $26,000,000) (increased by $26,000,000)''. amendment no. 44 offered by mr. feenstra of iowa page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 59 offered by mr. hern of oklahoma page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 75 offered by mr. keating of massachusetts page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 76 offered by mr. kelly of mississippi page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 80 offered by mrs. kiggans of virginia page 9, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 88 offered by mr. lalota of new york page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 89 offered by mr. lalota of new york page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 93 offered by mr. lamborn of colorado page 39, line 19, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $20,000,000)(increased by $20,000,000)''. amendment no. 95 offered by mr. landsman of ohio page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)(reduced by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 98 offered by mr. lawler of new york page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 99 offered by ms. letlow of louisiana page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. [[page h4376]] amendment no. 102 offered by ms. letlow of louisiana page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $12,000,000) (increased by $12,000,000)''. amendment no. 104 offered by mr. luttrell of texas page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 117 offered by mr. mcgovern of massachusetts page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $8,500,000) (increased by $8,500,000)''. amendment no. 119 offered by mr. miller of ohio page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 124 offered by mr. mills of florida page 38, line 9, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(decreased by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 125 offered by mr. molinaro of new york page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 131 offered by mr. moylan of guam page 36, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $800,000) (increased by $800,000)''. amendment no. 134 offered by ms. norton of district of columbia page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $4,500,000) (reduced by $4,500,000)''. amendment no. 141 offered by mr. ogles of tennessee page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 143 offered by mr. pence of indiana page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 144 offered by mr. peters of california page 24, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,800,000) (increased by $5,800,000)''. amendment no. 146 offered by mr. pfluger of texas page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 149 offered by mr. austin scott of georgia page 8, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 155 offered by mr. steil of wisconsin page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 160 offered by mr. strong of alabama page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 161 offered by mr. strong of alabama page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 162 offered by mr. strong of alabama page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 182 offered by mr. wenstrup of ohio page 38, line 9, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $63,000,000) (increased by $63,000,000)''. amendment no. 184 offered by mr. williams of new york page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $4,500,000) (reduced by $4,500,000)''. amendment no. 185 offered by mr. wilson of south carolina page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 186 offered by mr. wilson of south carolina page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 189 offered by mr. wilson of south carolina page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $15,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $15,000,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from california (mr. calvert) and the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. mccollum) each will control 10 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from california. mr. calvert. mr. chair, these are noncontroversial messaging amendments supported by both sides. i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i also support this amendment. as was stated, it contains a series of bipartisan amendments that are supported by members on both sides. i have no objection and encourage the adoption of this amendment. mr. chair, i yield to the gentleman from rhode island (mr. amo). mr. amo. mr. chair, i hail from rhode island, the ocean state. we know a thing or two about the sea and protecting our national security. unmanned undersea vehicles, or underwater drones, have become an increasingly important tool in our national security arsenal. this technology plays a critical role in ukraine's counterattacks against russia's naval aggression and helps allies monitor activity throughout the indo-pacific. underwater drones allow our navy to conduct dangerous and covert missions without putting american lives directly at risk. as we look at our naval inventory, it is clear that the united states needs more underwater drones. we need them quickly, and we need them affordably. my amendment in this en bloc encourages the development of additive manufacturing of underwater drones. my other amendment that will be considered later encourages the development and enhancement of the payload capabilities of underwater drones. our ocean state is doing excellent work to train workers, develop technology, and produce many of our underwater drones. i am proud to lead these amendments that will support good-paying jobs in rhode island and advance our national security. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support this amendment. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i have no other speakers, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i urge adoption of the package, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. pence. mr. chair, i rise today in support of my bipartisan amendment no. 143, included in en bloc 1. i would first like to thank my colleagues, representatives carson, mrvan, and donalds for cosponsoring this important amendment. it will provide additional funds, fully offset, for reducing critical risk and bolstering the power-producing capacity of the dod's transportable microreactor program, which is set to deliver the nation's first advanced reactor into operation through project pele. transportable nuclear technology, offering uninterrupted mission power in remote and strategically important locations, will not only strengthen operational resilience--it will save lives. as we learned in iraq and afghanistan, the necessity of hauling fuel into combat areas comes at a tremendous price. able to operate for years without refueling, transportable reactors can untether america's warfighter and ensure credible operational resilience. i am thrilled that rolls-royce libertyworks in indianapolis, indiana is providing the power conversion module and heat exchange module for project pele and for the hundreds of hoosier jobs this project supports. i urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bipartisan en bloc and support the underlying defense appropriations bill. the acting chair (mr. pfluger). the question is on the amendments en bloc offered by the gentleman from california (mr. calvert). the en bloc amendments were agreed to. amendments en bloc no. 2 offered by mr. calvert of california mr. calvert. mr. chair, pursuant to house resolution 1316, i offer amendments en bloc. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendments en bloc. amendments en bloc no. 2 consisting of amendment nos. 2, 7, 10, 23, 26, 27, 30, 45, 48, 54, 60, 67, 77, 81, 82, 86, 90, 91, 100, 101, 110, 118, 120, 122, 132, 135, 142, 145, 151, 153, 156, 157, 158, 159, 169, 180, 183, 187, 188, and 190, printed in part a of house report 118-559, offered by mr. calvert of california: amendment no. 2 offered by mr. amo of rhode island page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $3,000,000) (reduced by $3,000,000)''. [[page h4377]] amendment no. 7 offered by mr. bacon of nebraska page 33, line 7, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000)''. amendment no. 10 offered by mr. banks of indiana page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 23 offered by mr. carey of ohio page 35, line 5, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,300,000) (reduced by $2,300,000)''. amendment no. 26 offered by mr. carter of georgia page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert the following: ``(reduced by $4,500,000)''. page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert the following: ``(increased by $4,500,000)''. amendment no. 27 offered by ms. castor of florida page 16, line 17, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 30 offered by mr. cohen of tennessee page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $8,000,000) (increased by $8,000,000)''. amendment no. 45 offered by mr. finstad of minnesota page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000)''. amendment no. 48 offered by mr. finstad of minnesota page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 54 offered by mr. gimenez of florida page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 60 offered by mr. higgins of louisiana page 31, line 24, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $19,440,000) (reduced by $19,440,000)''. amendment no. 67 offered by mr. jackson of texas page 38, line 16, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 77 offered by mr. kelly of mississippi page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,500,000) (reduced by $2,500,000)''. amendment no. 81 offered by mrs. kiggans of virginia page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 82 offered by mrs. kiggans of virginia page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $9,000,0000) (increased by $9,000,0000)''. amendment no. 86 offered by mrs. kiggans of virginia page 8, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 90 offered by mr. lalota of new york page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 91 offered by mr. lalota of new york page 29, line 23, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 100 offered by ms. letlow of louisiana page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $19,000,000) (increased by $19,000,000)''. amendment no. 101 offered by ms. letlow of louisiana page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 110 offered by mr. mccormick of georgia page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 118 offered by mr. mcgovern of massachusetts page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $11,000,000) (increased by $11,000,000)''. amendment no. 120 offered by mrs. miller of west virginia page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $25,000,000) (increased by $25,000,000)''. amendment no. 122 offered by mr. mills of florida page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)' ''. amendment no. 132 offered by mrs. napolitano of california page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $37,411,000) (decreased by $37,411,000)''. amendment no. 135 offered by ms. norton of district of columbia page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $8,000,000) (reduced by $8,000,000)''. amendment no. 142 offered by mr. ogles of tennessee page 117, line 12, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 145 offered by ms. pettersen of colorado page 39, line 1, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 151 offered by ms. sewell of alabama page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 153 offered by mr. soto of florida page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,800,000) (increased by $10,800,000)''. amendment no. 156 offered by mr. steil of wisconsin page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 157 offered by mr. steil of wisconsin page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $12,000,000) (increased by $12,000,000)''. amendment no. 158 offered by mr. strong of alabama page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 159 offered by mr. strong of alabama page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 169 offered by mr. timmons of south carolina page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 180 offered by mr. waltz of florida page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 183 offered by mr. williams of new york page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $3,000,000) (reduced by $3,000,000)''. amendment no. 187 offered by mr. wilson of south carolina page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 188 offered by mr. wilson of south carolina page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 190 offered by mr. wilson of south carolina page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from california (mr. calvert) and the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. mccollum) each will control 10 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from california. mr. calvert. mr. chair, these are noncontroversial, bipartisan messaging amendments supported by both sides. i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i support this amendment. as with the other one, it contains a series of bipartisan amendments that are supported by members on both sides. mr. chair, i encourage the adoption of this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i urge adoption of the package, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. soto. mr. chair, i appreciate consideration of my amendment no. 153 to provide an $10.8 million increase within the rdt&e-defense wide account for the industrial base analysis and sustainment program's (ibas) advanced packaging infrastructure enablement of standardized assembly design kits program. this program will support innovative semiconductor manufacturing processes critical to national security. semiconductors support nearly all department of defense (dod) activities. ensuring secure access to leading-edge semiconductors, however, is a challenge. the ibas program ensures that the dod is positioned to effectively address industrial base issues and support the national security [[page h4378]] innovation base. its mission includes strengthening and protecting the domestic semiconductor supply chain to provide access to leading-edge products and capabilities. one of the next-generation semiconductor technologies that ibas is focusing on is advanced packaging. advanced packaging is an innovative semiconductor manufacturing process that fully integrates all component chips into a single, highly functional chip. currently, 98 percent of advanced packaging integrated processes are done in asia, where foreign entities can insert malicious processes in a way that is not easily identifiable. ibas is working to provide secure, credible, and reliable domestic advanced packaged semiconductor manufacturing capability. the design, fabrication, and packaging of leading-edge advanced package chips are becoming substantially more complex. to manage this complexity and ensure compatibility across different systems, standardized assembly design kits are essential. these kits provide a set of design rules and guidelines that streamline the manufacturing process. by establishing a uniform framework, standardized kits enable faster development and deployment of advanced packaging technologies, which is critical for meeting the dod's high-performance and security standards. my amendment will allow the department of defense to leverage existing public-private partnerships to quickly expand domestic u.s.-based semiconductor manufacturing development platforms for critical advanced semiconductor system integration, including through the enablement of standardized design kits. u.s. global leadership in semiconductors depends on u.s. owned firms operating at the leading edge of advanced packaging technologies. the next generation of electronic devices will require significantly greater functional density, in other words, packing chips together even more tightly than current technology allows. this requires technical leadership in semiconductor advanced packaging processes, including the enablement of standardized assembly kits. i believe congress should continue to allocate the necessary resources to update our domestic microelectronics security framework. i am proud of the work being done in neocity, my district's semiconductor technology hub, to advance domestic semiconductor manufacturing technology. this development is vital to strengthening our defense supply chain. i look forward to working with my colleagues to support this critical goal. the acting chair. the question is on the amendments en bloc offered by the gentleman from california (mr. calvert). the en bloc amendments were agreed to. amendments en bloc no. 3 offered by mr. calvert of california mr. calvert. mr. chair, pursuant to house resolution 1316, i offer amendments en bloc. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendments en bloc. amendments en bloc no. 3 consisting of amendment nos. 1, 4, 5, 12, 16, 17, 21, 22, 24, 35, 37, 41, 49, 51, 65, 69, 70, 74, 78, 83, 97, 106, 112, 114, 123, 137, 138, 148, 150, 152, 154, 166, 168, 172, 173, 174, 175, 177, 178, 179, and 193, printed in part a of house report 118-559, offered by mr. calvert of california: amendment no. 1 offered by mr. alford of missouri page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 4 offered by mr. armstrong of north dakota page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $7,500,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $7,500,000)''. amendment no. 5 offered by mr. bacon of nebraska page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $16,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $16,000,000)''. amendment no. 12 offered by mr. bergman of michigan page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 16 offered by mr. bost of illinois page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $9,500,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $9,500,000)''. amendment no. 17 offered by mr. buchanan of florida page 8, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $1,000,000)''. page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 21 offered by mrs. cammack of florida page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $8,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $8,000,000)''. amendment no. 22 offered by mr. carbajal of california page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $2,500,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,500,000)''. amendment no. 24 offered by mr. carl of alabama page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 35 offered by mr. dunn of florida page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $7,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $7,000,000)''. amendment no. 37 offered by mr. dunn of florida page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $6,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $6,000,000)''. amendment no. 41 offered by mr. ezell of mississippi page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 49 offered by mr. fitzgerald of wisconsin page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 51 offered by mr. fong of california page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $4,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $4,000,000)''. amendment no. 65 offered by mr. hudson of north carolina page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 32, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 69 offered by mr. james of michigan page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 70 offered by mr. james of michigan page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $12,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $12,000,000)''. amendment no. 74 offered by mr. keating of massachusetts page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 78 offered by mr. kelly of pennsylvania page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 83 offered by mrs. kiggans of virginia page 8, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $2,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,000,000)''. amendment no. 97 offered by mr. langworthy of new york page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 106 offered by mr. luttrell of texas page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $21,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $21,000,000)''. amendment no. 112 offered by mr. mccormick of georgia page 9, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $8,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $8,000,000)''. amendment no. 114 offered by mr. mccormick of georgia page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $7,700,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $7,700,000)''. amendment no. 123 offered by mr. mills of florida page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $6,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $6,000,000)''. amendment no. 137 offered by mr. obernolte of california page 36, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 138 offered by mr. obernolte of california page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $4,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $4,000,000)''. amendment no. 148 offered by mr. austin scott of georgia page 9, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduce by $2,500,000)''. [[page h4379]] page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,500,000)''. amendment no. 150 offered by mr. sessions of texas page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 152 offered by mr. sorensen of illinois page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 154 offered by mrs. steel of california page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $7,000,000)''. page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $7,000,000)''. amendment no. 166 offered by ms. tenney of new york page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $15,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $15,000,000)''. amendment no. 168 offered by mr. thompson of pennsylvania page 10, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert the following: ``(increased by $32,262,000)''. amendment no. 172 offered by mrs. trahan of massachusetts page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 173 offered by mrs. trahan of massachusetts page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 174 offered by mr. turner of ohio page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 175 offered by mr. turner of ohio page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $7,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $7,000,000)''. amendment no. 177 offered by mr. van drew of new jersey page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert the following: ``(reduced by $1,000,0000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert the following: ``(increased by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 178 offered by ms. van duyne of texas page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $7,500,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $7,500,000)''. amendment no. 179 offered by mrs. wagner of missouri page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $6,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $6,000,000)''. amendment no. 193 offered by mr. yakym of indiana page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $90,000,000)''. page 27, line 7, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $90,000,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from california (mr. calvert) and the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. mccollum) each will control 10 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from california. mr. calvert. mr. chair, these are noncontroversial bipartisan amendments supported by both sides. i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, once again, i support this amendment. it contains a series of bipartisan amendments that are supported by members on both sides. i have no objection. i encourage adoption of the amendment. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i yield to the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. thompson), the chairman of the committee on agriculture. mr. thompson of pennsylvania. mr. chair, i thank the chairman for his leadership with this bill. mr. chair, i rise today in support of this en bloc, which includes an amendment that i was proud to introduce. amendment no. 168 will restore funding for the apex accelerator program to the fiscal year `24 enacted level. apex accelerators provide individualized, no-cost assistance and training for businesses to identify and compete for defense and other government contracts. with 97 apex accelerators across all 50 states, this program serves as the access for existing and new businesses to strengthen the defense industrial base by accelerating innovation, fostering ingenuity, and bolstering supply chains. the success of the apex accelerator program speaks for itself. in 2023 alone, apex accelerators counseled more than 62,000 businesses that received more than $28 billion in contracts. our nation faces unprecedented national security challenges. we must continue to invest in our small businesses to spur innovation, strengthen a resilient supply chain, and diversify our industrial base. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support this en bloc. {time} 1400 mr. calvert. mr. chair, i yield to the gentleman from new york (mr. langworthy). mr. langworthy. mr. chair, i thank the gentleman from california (mr. calvert) for yielding. mr. chair, i rise today to support my amendment to provide the navy's science and technology for nuclear re-entry systems with $5 million for the next-generation control system, ensuring that it is budget neutral. in an era when our adversaries are ramping up their nuclear capabilities, we face growing threats that demand a swift and decisive response. the strategic community is clamoring for upgrades to our aging weapons delivery systems, and the development of this next- generation control system is vital. this technology will minimize delays and enable precise vehicle control at hypersonic speeds. we are in a new cold war with china, and complacency is not an option. my amendment will ensure america leads in innovation, maintaining our military's unparalleled superiority. i also support representative trahan's amendment no. 173. our brave men and women in uniform currently face a dangerous technology gap in close-quarters reconnaissance and intelligence during combat and rescue missions. the army special operations command is addressing this with tactical throwable cameras, providing real-time, lifesaving situational awareness. this small tool can make a huge impact, saving countless lives. the only hurdle is the funding required for the army's operational evaluation, a critical step toward procurement. we owe it to our troops to provide them with the best tools to succeed on the battlefield, and this technology is crucial for their success. mr. chair, these amendments are not just about technology or budget lines. they are about safeguarding our nation and ensuring that our troops have what they need to protect and serve. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support these amendments en bloc today for the security and future of our country. mr. calvert. mr. chairman, i urge the adoption of the package, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendments en bloc offered by the gentleman from california (mr. calvert). the en bloc amendments were agreed to. amendments en bloc no. 4 offered by mr. calvert of california mr. calvert. mr. chair, pursuant to house resolution 1316, i offer amendments en bloc. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendments en bloc. amendments en bloc no. 4 consisting of amendment nos. 9, 11, 13, 19, 20, 32, 33, 36, 38, 39, 40, 46, 50, 52, 53, 55, 61, 62, 64, 66, 68, 73, 79, 87, 92, 94, 103, 105, 107, 108, 109, 111, 121, 136, 165, 170, 176, 181, 191, and 192, printed in part a of house report 118-559, offered by mr. calvert of california: amendment no. 9 offered by mr. banks of indiana page 8, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $11,000,000)''. amendment no. 11 offered by mr. banks of indiana page 27, line 7, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $2,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,000,000)''. amendment no. 13 offered by mr. bergman of michigan page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $7,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $7,000,000)''. [[page h4380]] amendment no. 19 offered by mr. buchanan of florida page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $3,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $3,000,000)''. amendment no. 20 offered by mrs. cammack of florida page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $8,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $8,000,000)''. amendment no. 32 offered by mr. costa of california page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 33 offered by mr. curtis of utah page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 36 offered by mr. dunn of florida page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 38 offered by mr. dunn of florida page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 39 offered by mr. ezell of mississippi page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 40 offered by mr. ezell of mississippi page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 46 offered by mr. finstad of minnesota page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 50 offered by mr. fitzgerald of wisconsin page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 52 offered by mr. fong of california page 8, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $4,000,000)''. page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $4,000,000)''. amendment no. 53 offered by mr. garbarino of new york page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 55 offered by mr. graves of louisiana page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $9,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $9,000,000)''. amendment no. 61 offered by mr. himes of connecticut page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 62 offered by mrs. hinson of iowa page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $12,500,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $12,500,000)''. amendment no. 64 offered by mr. hudson of north carolina page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 66 offered by mr. hudson of north carolina page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 68 offered by mr. james of michigan page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $15,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $15,000,000)''. amendment no. 73 offered by mr. joyce of pennsylvania page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 36, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 79 offered by mrs. kiggans of virginia page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 87 offered by mr. lalota of new york page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 92 offered by mr. lamborn of colorado page 9, line 13, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,500,000)''. page 9, line 19, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $2,500,000)''. amendment no. 94 offered by mr. lamborn of colorado page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 103 offered by mr. lieu of california page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no 105 offered by mr. luttrell of texas page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $9,500,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $9,500,000)''. amendment no 107 offered by ms. mace of south carolina page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $20,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $20,000,000)''. amendment no. 108 offered by ms. mcclellan of virginia page 27, line 7, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 109 offered by mr. mccormick of georgia page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $4,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $4,000,000)''. amendment no. 111 offered by mr. mccormick of georgia page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 121 offered by mr. mills of florida page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 136 offered by mr. nunn of iowa page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 165 offered by ms. tenney of new york page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $15,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $15,000,000)''. amendment no. 170 offered by mr. timmons of south carolina page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $6,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $6,000,000)''. amendment no. 176 offered by mr. turner of ohio page 9, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 181 offered by ms. wasserman schultz of florida page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 191 offered by mr. wilson of south carolina page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $6,000,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $6,000,000)'' amendment no. 192 offered by mr. yakym of indiana page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $8,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $8,000,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from california (mr. calvert) and the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. mccollum) each will control 10 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from california. mr. calvert. mr. chair, these are noncontroversial, bipartisan amendments supported by both sides. i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i support this amendment. it contains, once again, bipartisan amendments that members on both sides have agreed to. i have no objection. mr. chair, we encourage the adoption of this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i have no additional speakers. i urge the adoption of the package, and i yield back the balance of my time. [[page h4381]] the acting chair. the question is on the amendments en bloc offered by the gentleman from california (mr. calvert). the en bloc amendments were agreed to. amendments en bloc no. 5 offered by mr. calvert of california mr. calvert. mr. chair, pursuant to house resolution 1316, i offer amendments en bloc. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendments en bloc. amendments en bloc no. 5 consisting of amendment nos. 8, 15, 47, 63, 84, 85, 96, 113, 115, 116, 126, 127, 128, 130, 147, and 167, printed in part a of house report 118-559, offered by mr. calvert of california: amendment no. 8 offered by mr. banks of indiana page 41, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 15 offered by ms. blunt rochester of delaware page 40, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 47 offered by mr. finstad of minnesota page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $3,000,000)''. page 40, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $3,000,000)''. amendment no. 63 offered by mr. hudson of north carolina page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $3,000,000) (increased by $3,000,000)''. amendment no. 84 offered by mrs. kiggans of virginia page 40, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 85 offered by mrs. kiggans of virginia page 40, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 96 offered by mr. langworthy of new york page 41, line 5, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 113 offered by mr. mccormick of georgia page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 115 offered by mr. mcgovern of massachusetts page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $8,000,000) (increased by $8,000,000)''. amendment no. 116 offered by mr. mcgovern of massachusetts page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $9,500,000) (increased by $9,500,000)''. amendment no. 126 offered by mr. molinaro of new york page 40, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $4,000,000) (increased by $4,000,000)''. amendment no. 127 offered by mr. molinaro of new york page 41, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $9,000,000) (increased by $9,000,000)''. amendment no. 128 offered by mr. molinaro of new york page 41, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 130 offered by mr. moore of utah page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $9,850,000) (increased by $9,850,000)''. amendment no. 147 offered by mr. phillips of minnesota page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 167 offered by mr. thompson of pennsylvania page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. the acting chair (mr. obernolte). pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from california (mr. calvert) and the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. mccollum) each will control 10 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from california. mr. calvert. mr. chair, these are noncontroversial, bipartisan amendments supported by both sides, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i support this amendment. as with all the others, it contains a series of bipartisan amendments with the support of members on both sides of the aisle. i have no objections, and i encourage the adoption of this amendment. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chairman, i yield to the gentleman from new york (mr. langworthy). mr. langworthy. mr. chairman, i thank the gentleman from california (mr. calvert) for yielding. mr. chair, i rise today to support my amendment that seeks to bring much-needed attention to the development and procurement of advanced medical devices specifically designed for the treatment and prevention of infections associated with osseointegrated prosthetics. osseointegrated prosthetics are cutting-edge technology that involves directly anchoring a prosthetic limb to the bone, offering improved mobility and comfort for amputees compared to traditional prosthetics. our servicemembers who have sacrificed so much for our nation deserve nothing less than the best care that we as a nation can provide them. this work, however, extends beyond our heroes in uniform. it has the potential to significantly impact the lives of thousands of americans who have lost limbs and are determined to regain their independence and continue to live full and productive lives. the challenge of infections in osseointegrated prosthetics is a serious one, with potential complications that can hinder recovery and diminish quality of life. by prioritizing the availability of effective treatments and preventative measures, we can ensure that all americans, whether they are veterans or civilians, receive the highest standard of care. this will not only reduce complications but will also promote faster recovery and better outcomes overall. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support the en bloc, which includes this amendment. by doing so, we stand with our servicemembers, our veterans, and every american facing the trials of limb loss. we send a message to those families that their struggles are not forgotten, and their journey to recovery and well-being is a priority for this congress. mr. calvert. mr. chairman, i thank the gentleman for his comments. i urge adoption of the package, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendments en bloc offered by the gentleman from california (mr. calvert). the en bloc amendments were agreed to. the acting chair. the chair understands that amendment no. 25 will not be offered. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 29 printed in part a of house report 118-559. amendment no. 56 offered by ms. greene of georgia the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 56 printed in part a of house report 118-559. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. the salary of lloyd austin, secretary of defense, shall be reduced to $1. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from georgia. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, my amendment uses the holman rule to slash secretary lloyd austin's salary to no more than $1. lloyd austin has failed in his role as secretary of defense and has jeopardized the national security of the united states. he botched the american withdrawal from afghanistan, which resulted in the deaths of 13 american soldiers, along with the abandonment of american civilians and military equipment. this remains today as a large stain on our nation and a wound in the hearts of every veteran who served in afghanistan. he is, in large part, responsible for handing over control of afghanistan to the islamic extremists, the taliban. during secretary austin's tenure, military recruitment has reached historic lows. instead of recruiting new soldiers, secretary austin has focused [[page h4382]] his efforts on purging the military through oppressive vaccine mandates and so-called extremism stand-downs. more than 8,000 troops were kicked out of the military for refusing the vaccine. thousands more sought religious and medical exemptions, many of which were still pending when the dod rescinded the mandate. for too long, our soldiers have been punished because the current administration is hellbent on forcing them to take a dangerous vaccine and submit to this practice. we also do not know how many of our military members have been harmed by these vaccine mandates, and we know they have been harmed. while the united states is being ravaged by an invasion at our southern border, lloyd austin continues to prefer to write blank checks for ukraine. lloyd austin's open-ended support of ukraine has depleted our defense capabilities and pushed the united states even closer to world war iii. secretary austin has betrayed the american people and lost the public's trust. the american people should no longer have to reward his failures by paying his salary. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentleman from california is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. calvert. mr. chairman, the secretary of defense serves at the pleasure of the president of the united states. he implements the president's policies. we have, in many ways, been addressing our serious differences with the department and this administration. we have done so on multiple occasions, and we have done so within this bill. mr. chair, i oppose this amendment, and i yield to the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. mccollum). ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i thank the chairman of the full committee for yielding. mr. chair, i am very disappointed by these types of amendments that have been offered today. secretary austin has dedicated his life to the service of the united states with over 41 years in the army, rising to the rank of four-star general. i could go on with his accomplishments. this is a man who is a patriot for our country, certainly someone who has not betrayed the american people. mr. chair, i thank the chairman for the time. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chairman, i would argue that the families of the 13 american soldiers who were killed in the failure of the withdrawal in afghanistan do not agree with my colleague's statement. this nation is too important, our national security is too important, and our military members are too important to be under the direction and the leadership of lloyd austin, who failed our entire military and failed our country in afghanistan. also, our country deserves defense, and our country and our states are left defenseless when the dod's main focus is securing borders in foreign countries, specifically in ukraine. it moved me to anger when i heard lloyd austin directly tell me that our cousins, our uncles, and our sons could be sent to fight on the ground in ukraine one day. i think that is appalling when 300 americans are being killed by fentanyl every single day and when america's young women are being raped and murdered by illegal aliens. this is becoming something so frequent in the news that it is shocking and appalling. this is absolutely not what the dod is supposed to be for. the dod should be defending america and defending our national security. i think many americans would agree that secretary of defense lloyd austin's salary should be reduced to $1 because that is the exact job performance that he has given to america and our national security. also, it is absolutely embarrassing that young people today do not want to serve in our military. having the lowest recruitment numbers in probably history is appalling. it is embarrassing. mr. chairman, i urge my colleagues in this house to pass this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the noes appeared to have it. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia will be postponed. {time} 1415 amendment no. 57 offered by ms. greene of georgia the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 57 printed in part a of house report 118-559. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), add the following: title ix--additional limitation provision sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be used for assistance to ukraine. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from georgia. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, my amendment would ensure that no additional military funding is authorized for the war in ukraine. to date, congress has appropriated $174.2 billion of american's hard- earned, taxpayer dollars in emergency supplemental funding for ukraine. of this amount, about $116 billion, 67 percent, has been provided through the u.s. department of defense. while our southern border is invaded by murderers, rapists, and terrorists, the biden administration cares more about protecting the borders of ukraine than the country he swore to protect and that many people in this body swore to protect. now, ukraine is using american weapons to bomb civilian beaches in russian territory. ukraine is recruiting an untold number of their own men in ukraine to fight in this war that they cannot win. anyone that says ukraine can win is being completely dishonest. we know how russia will respond to this aggression because they already are. just recently, we saw reports of russian warships off the coast of florida in the caribbean. how much longer will the united states provoke russia before we fall into world war iii, or have american boots on the ground in ukraine, which the american people do not support? as a matter of fact, over half of america thinks that the u.s. is not only spending too much money to help ukraine, they disagree with the war. in a recent cbs poll, over 60 percent of republicans do not support additional aid to ukraine, and even one in four democrats do not support it anymore. by the way, we are at $34.5 trillion in debt. it is unreal that anyone in this body who votes to appropriate money can go home to their folks in their district and say more of your money should be put in debt to go to defend some country that most of you cannot find on a map. it is truly disturbing to watch americans' hard-earned, taxpayer dollars go down the drain because this government, this body, and many people in washington think they have to go fight a war or pay for a war and send weapons to a war in a country that does not touch our borders. yet we are completely ignoring the war on our own border, the war on our own people that is waged on us every single day by the cartels. i do not understand why we cannot come together in this united states house of representatives to defend the american people and recognize who our true enemies are. there are people invading our country from over 160 countries around the world, including the international crime organizations that are murdering americans every single day, trafficking children, trafficking women, trafficking drugs. that is the [[page h4383]] only thing that we should be talking about, and if we have a department of defense that should be our focus. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i include in the record a letter dated november 1, 2023, and it is signed by some distinguished members of this body: roger wicker, ranking member of the senate armed services committee; james e. risch, ranking member of the senate foreign relations committee; chairman mike rogers, armed services committee; and chairman mccaul of the house foreign affairs committee. congress of the united states, washington, dc, november 1, 2023. president joseph r. biden, the white house, washington, d.c. dear president biden: we welcome reports that your administration has finally provided some limited range army tactical missile systems (atacms) to ukraine. we remain concerned that the transfers of these shorter-range atacms occurred more than a year after ukraine's public request for this capability, and we believe it demonstrates that your administration's reticence toward arming ukraine continues. although this transfer is a positive step, the job on atacms is only half-done: the united states has only provided a small number of the anti-personnel/anti-materiel (apam) variant of atacms and these have a shorter range. we urge you to provide the unitary warhead variant of atacms which has a substantially longer range than the apams. in addition, we call on you to deliver the balance of u.s. apams given the department of defense's repeated inability to articulate a clear, current requirement for this weapon. ukraine's requirement for deep-strike capability remains urgent, particularly to range targets throughout crimea. recent successful strikes on russian targets in crimea, including on black sea fleet assets, demonstrate the strategic significance of long-range strike options and the relevance of the longer range atacms. it is a sad reflection that ukraine had to rely, in part, on long-range missiles provided by allies to reach these targets in the face of your administration's continued self-deterrence. ukraine must have the ability to break russia's logistics network for ukraine's offensive operations to truly be successful. we also regret that the administration has yet to provide congress with the definitive status of the atacms inventory and warfighting requirements. we have received at least three documents from the pentagon with substantively different numbers. given the bipartisan congressional support for providing long-range atacms, we cannot understand the department of defense's inability to articulate atacms requirements. the bottom line is this: ukraine has requested long-range atacms. ukraine has demonstrated the ability to employ long- range missiles in a responsible and effective manner. allies have already provided ukraine with these capabilities, and russia has clearly declined to escalate upon usage of deep- strike missiles. the united states has an arsenal of long- range unitary warhead atacms, a hot production line to backfill them, and affordable and executable paths to speed up delivery of the precision strike missile follow-on capability. clearly, it is time for you to finish the job on atacms. the costs of failing to do so not only risks stalemate on the battlefield and the further protraction of this war, but also threatens further global instability as our adversaries conduct influence operations around the globe. sincerely, roger f. wicker, ranking member, senate armed services committee. mike rogers, chairman, house armed services committee. james e. risch, ranking member, senate foreign relations committee. michael t. mccaul, chairman, house foreign affairs committee. ms. mccollum. the gentlewoman is certainly entitled to her own opinion, but the reason why i am entering this letter into the record is that there are members on her side of the aisle that strongly disagree with her original statement talking about how weapons are used. i will just read a couple highlights. it says: ``dear president biden, we welcome reports that your administration has finally provided some limited range army tactical missile systems . . .''--the shorter range. ``although this transfer is a positive step, the job on atacms is only half-done . . . . we urge you to provide the unitary warhead variant of atacms which has a substantially longer range than the apams.'' the ones that they are currently using. ``ukraine's requirement for deep-strike capability remains urgent, particularly to range targets throughout crimea.'' it goes on to say: ``ukraine has requested long-range atacms. ukraine has demonstrated the ability to employ long-range missiles in a responsible and effective manner.'' in other words, they are asking in a letter that they sent that these atacms be given to ukraine, the full inventory, that they can use to do the strikes that ukraine thinks they need to do. i will point out, mr. chair, that even on the other side of the aisle, the republican side of the aisle, there is a difference of opinion from what the gentlewoman stated. i will point out that the majority has already eliminated funding for the ukraine security assistance initiative in this bill, something the chairman and i disagree on in the way that it is done. we have another amendment that will also prohibit any further support to ukraine as they fight an illegal invasion in their country. it is just morally wrong, in my opinion. putin is attempting to rewrite the map of europe, and he is doing it through force. he is doing it in violation of international law. he is deliberately killing civilians. he is attacking hospitals and daycare centers. they are targeting grocery stores. on top of that, they are kidnapping ukrainian children, which is something that i find very disturbing. putin and his thugs are committing war crimes on a mass scale, and the united states and the democracies around the world must continue to strongly oppose him. if we do not, then he and other authoritarian leaders will do something like this again, either in ukraine or somewhere else in the world. america is not alone in our military support for ukraine. our nato and european allies have provided close to $50 billion in military assistance. we are donating tanks, air defense systems, artillery, vehicles, rockets, and infantry fighting vehicles, and the list does go on. let us not abandon our eu and nato allies now. let us not abandon ukraine. i know there are those who express concerns about how some of the munitions are being provided to ukraine, particularly the cluster munitions. we have an amendment to consider that deal and how to specifically work on that. i understand the difficult position that ukraine and president zelenskyy have been in with respect to shortages of ammunition because of our failure to get the funding to them on time. the ukrainian people, mr. chair, did not ask for this war. they did not ask for their children to be kidnapped. they did not ask for their economy to be destroyed. they faced daunting odds against russian forces. they have taken up the mantle to defend themselves, their values, and their democratic principles. i believe they deserve our continued support. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to wholeheartedly oppose this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, may i inquire as to the time remaining. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from georgia has 1\1/2\ minutes remaining. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, it is no wonder that congress has a 13 percent approval rating from the american people because congress is an absolute failure to the american people. this congress has put the american people $34.5 trillion in debt because of the ridiculous decisions to make our american military the world police and make our government the biggest charity in the world just giving away all of this money and enslaving americans in debt. it is also a complete lie to say you support ukraine while you support funding the continual murder of ukrainians in a war ukraine cannot win. the russian population is 144 million. ukraine's population is 38 million. [[page h4384]] the fact is, ukraine is going to run out of men that are going to die on that battlefield, while america beats their chest and talks about putin every single day and keeps sending money and keeps sending weapons and keeps causing these people to die. we should be pushing for peace in ukraine. if we are going to defend america, we should be fighting together, all of us, for our own border and for our own american people that we swore an oath to defend. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i will be clear: the russians attacked ukraine. ukraine decided enough is enough. they were going to stand up for their rights, for their values, for their people. we as democracies around the world have stood together with ukraine. it is the right thing to do. mr. chair, i urge a ``no'' vote on this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the noes appeared to have it. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia will be postponed. amendment no. 58 offered by ms. hageman the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 58 printed in part a of house report 118-559. ms. hageman. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be used for classified teleworking or remote working for any employee of the department of defense. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentlewoman from wyoming (ms. hageman) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from wyoming. ms. hageman. mr. chairman, i rise in favor of my amendment, no. 58 to h.r. 8774, which prohibits classified teleworking and remote working for dod employees. the covid-19 pandemic is over, and house republicans in the 118th congress prioritized returning the federal workforce to the office and cracking down on wasted federal office space. to this extent, last year i sponsored an amendment to the fiscal year '24 dod appropriations bill blocking routine and regular telework and remote working, ensuring that dod personnel who defend the nation operating largely in a classified environment are in the office. i thank chairman calvert and the committee as similar language is in this year's bill, but since last year, new dod policy may thwart the return-to-office needs of the government, while also raising serious national security concerns. on january 8, 2024, the dod office of the under secretary of defense for personnel and readiness updated the department's telework and remote work policies for the first time since 2012. under this new policy, dod personnel are qualified for telework and remote work when: ``the duties of the position do not require more than occasional handling, discussion, or processing of classified material.'' in short, if you handle classified information, you still qualify to work from home. while this policy permits the handling of information just up to the collateral secret level, it requires the dod to provide the employee with a classified teleworking device, which means more resources and spending simply to accommodate telework desires in a job not compatible with that style of work. this is not the only development as the space force has awarded contracts for the development of a digital environment to integrate classified and nonclassified work from a remote location as well. {time} 1430 reporting on the development of this software already shows that there is an interest in elevating this technology to top secret and special access program level. mr. chairman, the development of these technologies and dod policies for classified remote and telework are a new concerning trend. they risk delaying the return of the federal workforce to the office, as personnel traditionally exempt from telework and remote work are now being brought into the system, versus focusing on bringing everyone back. it also raises significant national security concerns. homes, coffee shops, and other places people choose to remote work from are simply not as secure as a dod facility. i encourage my colleagues to support this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to this amendment. i understand the desire for all of us to return to a pre-covid sense of normal work routines, but i want to be very clear. this is a total ban on telework, and it is excessive. i work in the classified realm more than i ever thought i would since becoming a member of congress in my assigned duties, especially as ranking member and former chair of the defense committee, and i can assure you that our staff does not take classified work home and do telework from home. they do not. people do not do that. this is a total ban on telework. i believe there are certain circumstances where telework may be necessary. let me give you an example that hits close to home. in 2001, i had to close my office in washington because of an anthrax scare. that was before we had laptops and were well organized. my staff worked from home, and sometimes we worked at home together. they were able to get things done for the people that i represent, and i thank my staff for working under those extraordinary circumstances. now we have the technology that will allow people to work from home when it makes sense to do that. with telework, there is not a need to shut down the government for snow days anymore. if power is available, people work from home. they keep the government going. additionally, the federal government, including the dod, is in competition with the private sector for certain types of workers. many private-sector jobs offer telework as an option. without being able to have this flexibility, we may find ourselves in a more difficult position to fill jobs and to provide services to our constituents. telework does not make sense for every single employee all the time, but options should be available to the department to improve the quality of life for its workers when it makes sense. i urge my colleagues to oppose this total ban on telework, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. hageman. mr. chair, while i would like to assume that our federal employees charged with handling sensitive information will always act responsibly, we cannot control human nature, and, therefore, we cannot control where these dod systems will be opened up in the public. further, the dod facilities themselves protect information from intrusion such as physical break-ins or cyber threats of bad actors seeking access to our information. the security simply cannot be guaranteed in every household of the dod workforce. i quote the director of a company developing this technology for the space force. in an article discussing the software and development, the director stated: you cannot just pop your laptop up at starbucks. some of the things within that user agreement would be, you know, you are in a closed space, there are no windows, there is no one else home, your cell phone is not with you, things of that nature. what is being described here is a scif, something that dod personnel only have access to at work and not at home. outside the office, even equipped with new technologies, there is too much unpredictability for the handling of classified information, and these [[page h4385]] policies should not be allowed to go forward. i urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i will make another statement, and then i will yield back my time. let us be really clear here. this is a total ban on working from home. now, i will state it again. i work in the classified area. the chairman and i work with people in the intelligence committee. i can guarantee you even in our committee when things are passed out to members, do we not collect them back, mr. chair? people are not taking classified work home to telework. if they are taking anything out of this chamber, out of this building, or out of any of the departments where it is secure and should not leave, they should be prosecuted to the full extent because they are breaking the law. this is a total ban on telework. we should not support this amendment. we should work really hard to make sure that when telework is available, it makes sense, it delivers things for our constituents, and it makes our government run more efficiently. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. hageman. mr. chair, i believe that my colleague is misunderstanding the policy that is being proposed by the department of defense. this does not relate to people on committee work. this has to do with the policy that was proposed by the dod office on january 8, 2024, that would allow dod personnel to occasionally handle, discuss, or process classified material in an at-home or away-from-work setting. the purpose of the amendment is to prohibit that. the idea that this is a total ban on telework for members and staff of congress, that has absolutely nothing to do with this. this is directly related to the dod office of under secretary's personnel and readiness policies that were updated earlier this year. there is clearly a misunderstanding by my colleagues on the other side as to what the purpose of this amendment is. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from wyoming (ms. hageman). the amendment was agreed to. the acting chair. the chair understands that amendment no. 71 will not be offered. amendment no. 72 offered by ms. jayapal the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 72 printed in part a of house report 118-559. ms. jayapal. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title) insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to carry out section 222a or 222b of title 10, united states code. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentlewoman from washington (ms. jayapal) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from washington. ms. jayapal. mr. chair, my bipartisan amendment would prevent funding from this bill to be used to require the defense department to create what is called an unfunded priorities list. this list that dod is required to send to congress is simply a wish list of things that individual commanders and generals would like to fund. it has not gone through the level of prioritization and vetting that all of the other things that come in the budget do. in preparing the white house budget request, the commander in chief, in consultation with top military brass, determines what is necessary to defend the country based on a holistic analysis of our national security needs. by definition, anything that is in an unfunded priorities list has already been determined to be extraneous by the president, the secretary of defense, and the joint chiefs of staff. this practice, that was not even mandatory until the passage of the fy17 ndaa, does not serve the national security interests of the united states or the interests of our taxpayers. these wish lists are packed with billions of dollars of excessive line items, this year totaling more than $27.5 billion on top of the $850 billion requested by the white house and a 50 percent increase from last year. i urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bipartisan and commonsense amendment, and i thank my republican colleagues, congressmen mcclintock and davidson, as well as congressman garamendi who have joined me to rein in this wasteful spending that has no benefit to our national security. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentleman from california is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. calvert. mr. chair, unfunded priority lists are an important tool to provide congress with unfiltered information on what our military services and combatant commanders need. this has been the law of the land since fy 2017. unfunded priority lists give military services and the combatant commanders a direct channel to congress, which allows congress to make more informed decisions. mr. chair, i urge a ``no'' vote, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. jayapal. mr. chair, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. mccollum), my distinguished colleague and the ranking member. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i thank the gentlewoman for the time. mr. chair, i rise in support of my colleague's amendment. we should all be supporting funding for national security, but should any department or agency really get an opportunity to request additional funding that is outside of the president's request by any administration's request? either all agencies should have the authority to do it, or none of them should. this should not be unique to the armed forces and the combatant commanders if it is such a good idea. the service chiefs appear before the committee each year to discuss how their budgets meet the needs included in the national defense strategy. most of the combatant commanders also testify annually before the committee. congress is able to assess with stringent oversight what we believe the country needs for its national security. therefore, i ask my colleagues to support this amendment. if this really is such a fabulous idea that we have these unfunded opportunity lists, then we should do it for the epa. we should do it for the national park service. i could think of a lot of things that the american public would like to know about, if this is such a good idea, that are not able to be funded in the current time in the president's budget. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. jayapal. mr. chair, i understand that it is critical for congress to engage with the pentagon to accurately meet our country's national security needs, but we do not have to spend billions of dollars on wish lists and what-ifs to accomplish that. i say that the ranking member is absolutely right. if this is such a great idea for this agency, let us do it for all the agencies. if it is not a great idea for all the agencies, we should not be doing it for the department of defense. let us be clear. if military leaders want more funding for their wish list, there is nothing in this amendment that would prevent dod from supplying an unfunded priorities list to congress, but this process should be optional, just as it was 8 years ago. on top of that, most combatant commanders already testify before congress ahead of the appropriations process so congress can understand their needs without these wish lists that undercut the president's budget request. by law, individual generals and commanders are required to go around the commander in chief and military leadership to congress to ask for superfluous line items that serve mainly to line the pockets of defense contractors. this is corruption, plain and simple. these lists get in the way of our military's stated priorities. for example, the house passed ndaa authorized funding for some of the army's unfunded priorities while making substantial cuts to the requested amounts for the army's three largest accounts. [[page h4386]] this is despite army chief of staff general randy george specifically requesting that none of the army's unfunded priorities displace anything on the army's fy25 budget request. i urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this sensible, bipartisan amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from washington (ms. jayapal). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the noes appeared to have it. ms. jayapal. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from washington will be postponed. amendment no. 129 offered by mr. moore of alabama the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 129 printed in part a of house report 118-559. mr. moore of alabama. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $4,910,000)''. page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $4,910,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from alabama (mr. moore) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from alabama. mr. moore of alabama. mr. chairman, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. chairman, i rise today in support of amendment no. 129 that would cut $4.91 million from the dod climate change research and reallocate that funding for the enhancements to the army's unmanned ground vehicles, or ugvs. i start by thanking my friend and colleague from alabama, representative strong, for cosponsoring this important amendment. mr. chairman, we should not be focusing on climate change research at the department of defense. instead, we should be preparing for the next conflict and assure that our military is lethal and ready for combat. according to the presidential budget item justification for this project submitted by the office of the secretary of defense, they claim that climate change will impact the full range of u.s. military operating environments. that is complete hogwash. do we really think china cares about climate change that impacts their operations based on environment? absolutely not. to better protect american servicemembers from enemy fire, we should upgrade unmanned systems that operate in enemy environments. ugvs have already demonstrated their transformative potential on the battlefield. they can perform a wide range of tasks from reconnaissance to surveillance to logistics to explosive ordnance disposal without putting human lives at risk. by increasing our investment in these technologies, we can significantly reduce the casualties and injuries among our troops, ensuring that fewer families will have to face the heartache of loved ones being harmed in the line of duty. {time} 1445 moreover, enhancing our ugv capabilities will give us a strategic edge over our adversaries. as geopolitical tensions rise and threats become more and more sophisticated, having a fleet of advanced ugvs will enable our forces to respond swiftly and effectively to any threat. these vehicles can operate in environments that are too dangerous and inaccessible for humans, providing critical support in situations where conventional vehicles or personnel could be compromised. this amendment aligns dod dollars toward closing the most urgent warfighting gaps rather than funding climate research that does nothing to enhance national defense. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. case. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentleman from hawaii is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. case. mr. chair, first of all, let us take a look at the actual language of the amendment. i have heard the arguments from my colleague about what this amendment does, but when you take a look at the actual language of the amendment, what you discover is uncertainty all over the place. let us start with the stated goal of cutting climate research from the defense-wide research and development budget. well, this does not specify that in the amendment itself. it talks about defense-wide research and development budget, so i guess that means all defense research and development that in any way, shape, or form may be linked in some way, shape, or form to evaluating the effects of the climate on defense research and development, so we do not really know what this amendment is doing in that department. that is number one. similarly, we have no idea what the increase in the army's budget for unmanned ground vehicles is really all about. it is just a general increase. on a very basic level, the amendment just fails for lack of certainty and direction to the defense department. however, let us be clear about what this amendment is actually all about. i take for granted that the gentleman, in fact, wants to increase funding for unmanned ground vehicles, but it is at the expense of further climate-related activities within the department of defense. we, of course, had this discussion in the appropriations committee. this is a longstanding discussion. already, this bill fails because it cuts $621 million out of the defense budget in climate change programs that were in the president's budget. this bill was screened, scrubbed, and word searched for anything that said ``climate change,'' and what was yielded was any program that said ``climate change.'' i suspect that they found some more somewhere that just had the word ``climate'' in them at this point, and that is where this $4.9 million, in fact, comes from. we have had the discussion on the merits. this is contrary to what our own military believes is necessary, and i quote again from the department of defense's own climate risk analysis, focusing on the indo-pacific in this case, where we certainly have these issues: ``in the indo-pacific, sea level rise and more extreme weather events complicate the security environment, place key dod warfighting infrastructure and surrounding communities at risk, and challenge local capacity to respond.'' this is our military talking. this is why our military opposes the reduction of $621 million to start with, much less to conduct any research. my colleagues need look no further than our activities in the department of defense in the indo-pacific, in korea, okinawa, japan, guam, and palau just to start with, where we are investing billions and billions of dollars. shall we not ask what the impact of climate change is on those installations, in those activities? by the way, shall we not provide for resilience, which is basically trying to determine what the actual hardening of those facilities or their activities is? instead, let us just wipe out research altogether because that is the target here, of course, the research. this is not the right approach from the perspective of a reasoned military overall. this is not the right approach from the perspective of certainty in terms of what we are designating. this amendment should not be adopted. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. moore of alabama. mr. chairman, i yield to the gentleman from alabama (mr. strong). mr. strong. mr. chair, i rise in support of this amendment and in support of the army's continued investment in unmanned ground vehicle technology. it is an army priority to provide commanders on the ground with enhanced situational awareness and increased flexibility on the modern battlefield. this plus-up would take a step in the right direction to fill existing command and control capability gaps that would hinder our warfighter on the front lines. i have been proud to support the provisions in this ndaa and defense appropriations bills the past two cycles, [[page h4387]] not only because of the work done in huntsville, alabama, but because this is addressing a critical national security need. this is why i am here, to do what is best for national security. mr. chair, i encourage my colleagues to support this amendment. mr. moore of alabama. mr. chairman, i yield myself the balance of my time to close. increasing funds for army ugvs is not just a matter of military necessity. it is an investment in safety, security, and the future of our nation. let us act decisively to equip our forces with the tools they need to protect and serve. i urge the adoption of my amendment, mr. chairman, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. case. mr. chair, i yield myself the balance of my time to close. i appreciate my colleagues being focused on the unmanned ground vehicle program, and obviously, that is where they are focused. i would simply make the observation that we can have that debate as a matter of priorities, as to whether we invest in the unmanned ground vehicle program, but we should do it with certainty, with direction. we should not do it at the further expense of any research and development related to the impacts of climate on military readiness and warfighting capabilities. mr. chair, i urge members to oppose this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from alabama (mr. moore). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. case. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from alabama will be postponed. the chair understands that amendment no. 133 will not be offered. amendment no. 139 offered by mr. ogles the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 139 printed in part a of house report 118-559. mr. ogles. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to remove a chinese military company from the list required by section 1260h of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2021. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from tennessee. mr. ogles. mr. chairman, the section 1260h was established by the fiscal year 2021 ndaa to blacklist chinese companies with close ties to the people's liberation army as well as other companies, so-called civil-military fusion contributors. the fy 2023 ndaa went even further, applying sanctions for those entities on the list. section 1260h addition certainly hurts a company's shareholder value, which is the point. it protects american investors from unwittingly supporting companies underwriting china's military modernization and/or genocide. this amendment simply ensures that for the coming fiscal year, the biden administration cannot remove any ccp company designated for the department of defense section 1260h list. i understand there is similar language in the underlying bill, but the language has a waiver so broad you could drive a chinese tank through it. i am therefore offering it as a stand-alone to continue to push for full funding prohibition. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i rise in opposition. as was pointed out, section 1260h of the fy21 ndaa requires the secretary of defense to maintain a list of chinese military companies that are operating directly or indirectly in the united states and publicly report such a list. this list is required to be submitted annually until december 31, 2030. we have oversight over that, and we should exercise our oversight. the ndaa gave the secretary the authority to make additions and deletions to the list in subsection (b)(3). the fy25 bill already includes this provision, consistent with current law, so this has been the law since fy 2021, when the ndaa required the secretary of defense to maintain these lists. the amendment would remove the secretary's ability to modify the list, and it is an expansion of current law. if the secretary were to modify the list, congress would know about it, and congress could do its oversight and due diligence if they thought there was something out of order. given that the bill already includes this language, and the amendment would remove the authority of the secretary to make the necessary judgments, i oppose this amendment. this amendment, and the gentleman can correct me if i am wrong, would suppose that the secretary would disregard the law flagrantly and not fulfill their obligation, and i believe the secretary will, whether it is a republican secretary of defense or democratic secretary of defense, fulfill the law and do their work correctly. congress sees the report, and if congress thinks there is something amiss, we do our oversight. mr. chair, i oppose the amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. ogles. mr. chair, this amendment is necessitated by the fact that, at every opportunity, our president has chosen to placate rather than punish china. appeasement has long been a failed strategy, and it continues to fail us today. last year, joe biden unilaterally removed 27 ccp entities from commerce's unverified list, all to ensure that gina raimondo could simply secure a meeting with her ccp counterpart. similarly, in november, joe biden removed an agency of china's police, an agency which uses dna to collect genetic information on uyghur detainees from commerce's entity list. joe biden made this decision on a mere commitment from china that they would cooperate with us on confronting drug trafficking. i can tell my colleagues that the drug overdoses in my state and your states last night would conflict with this idea that china is cooperating with us, that they are doing anything to stem the flow of precursor chemicals for fentanyl into this country, so this amendment is quite necessary. the gentlewoman is right that it amends the law. it removes the secretary's ability to do so, and it puts joe biden in a box, where hopefully he cannot get lost. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i am in opposition. i have the right to close, do i not, mr. chair? the acting chair. the gentlewoman is correct. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. ogles. mr. chairman, increased scrutiny of these companies is a national security imperative, and delisting these companies, these chinese military companies, cooperators in genocide, and proponents of the pla's military modernization, must be an absolute nonstarter. we have to put america first, whether that is at our border, whether that is in commerce, and most certainly for our military. we have to take a stand and put biden in his place and not let him delist these companies for political or monetary gain. mr. chairman, i urge adoption of my amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, the gentleman who is offering the amendment is entitled to his opinions, but i do believe when we are talking about the president of the united states on the house floor, are we not supposed to refer to mr. biden as the president? i see the parliamentarian is here discussing this. i will not ask for any more time to have you answer the question because they would give you the advice on that. there have been times, mr. [[page h4388]] chair, when i have been in your position when things were happening, pretense before about conversations, and it was my understanding, but i will move forward. the gentleman, as i said, is entitled to his own opinion, and his opinion is that he does not trust the president of the united states, and he does not trust the secretary of defense. i do. i believe that they will carry forward and uphold the law. the gentleman did point out something about these precursor drugs that i think the gentleman, the chair, and i agree with, and that is china needs to crack down on them more. that means we need to crack down on china, but as soon as we list one of these chemical combinations, they come up with another one, so i have been urging, along with other people in the white house, to figure out how we write this in a way that we can make sure that we capture all these chemicals that are used to murder americans. {time} 1500 the last thing i would say on that, we just did the border security bill, the homeland security bill, and some of the technology provisions that would have allowed us to capture a lot of this at the border unfortunately were cut by the republicans' bill that they put forward. there is work to do. i agree. i do trust the secretary of defense, and i do trust the president of the united states to uphold the law of the land. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 140 offered by mr. ogles the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 140 printed in part b of house report 118-559. mr. ogles. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be made available to enforce subsection (b) of section 1259 of the john s. mccain national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2019. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from tennessee. mr. ogles. mr. chair, this is an important issue. we are going to talk about rimpac for a moment. it has direct impact on taiwan and also the united states of america, our beloved country. rimpac, rim of the pacific, is the world's largest international maritime warfare exercise, involving coordination of dozens of countries. the 2024 rimpac exercise will showcase the participation of nearly 30 countries, 40 surface ships, 3 submarines, 14 national land forces, over 150 aircraft, and more than 25,000 personnel. rimpac promotes a free and open indo-pacific, which itself promotes fairly commonsense priorities, including that all nations, big and small, have the right to freedom of the seas and the right to pursue economic growth consistent with international law and the principles of fair competition. this vital naval exercise deepens interoperability and resiliency with our allies and partners. it serves as a bulwark against malign major powers. it pursues deterrence for the sake of peace and stability. genocidal nations, like the people's republic of china, have no business going anywhere near the rimpac exercises. this amendment would defund enforcement subsection (b) of section 1259 of the john s. mccain national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2019. that subsection is a waiver that, if utilized, would effectively allow the people's republic of china to participate alongside the united states navy in the rimpac exercises, no questions asked. consider just how peculiar it is that the chinese communist party, our adversary, can be eligible to participate in this naval exercise. it is all because of a waiver congress wrote several years ago. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, the reason why i claim the time in opposition to this amendment is because it is completely unnecessary. of course, china does not participate in the rim of the pacific, or rimpac, as it was referred to. rimpac is a tool that we use to build alliances with our allies. it is an opportunity to deter china's activities. why would the department of defense invite them in? they are not going to. this is another attempt by the majority to load up this bill with unnecessary provisions and will only delay us moving forward in conference negotiations with the senate. if you have a problem with the way the authorizers wrote the bill, i suggest you go to the authorizing committee, mr. chair. this is the appropriations committee. i know full well that the department of defense is not going to be inviting china to join us in rimpac. this is unnecessary. provisions like this just make the process take longer. it is wasting time and money. i think the gentleman is entitled to his opinions, and his opinion, once again, is he does not trust the president of the united states or the secretary of defense to make decisions that are not only lawful but are in the best interests of this country. i oppose the amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. ogles. mr. chair, keep in mind that china is a country that steals hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of u.s. intellectual property every year. they commit espionage against the united states on an unparalleled scale every year. they are doing the bare minimum to prevent fentanyl precursors from flooding into mexico en route to the southern border. they are directly supporting every single designated state sponsor of terrorism on the state department's list: cuba, syria, north korea, and iran. even considering all of this, beijing is not fully excluded from participating in rimpac. for robust democratic allies like taiwan, however, participation currently is impossible. the existence of the waiver undermines the precondition on china's participation in rimpac. currently, the secretary of defense must certify to the congressional defense committees that china has stopped all land reclamation activities in the south china sea, removed all weapons from land reclamation sites, and established a consistent 4- year track record of taking actions toward stabilizing the region. if they do all those things, china could be invited to rimpac. it is important that we send a message to our adversary that they are a bad actor, it is time for them to behave and to understand that countries in their region, like taiwan, have a right to participate in the free market, to be free and democratic, and not to be under their thumb. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i have the right to close, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. ogles. mr. chair, in the fiscal year 2021 ndaa, congress included a fourth precondition stopping the ongoing genocide against the uyghurs. we have already seen president biden placate china in more ways than one, in addition to the unilateral delisting of dozens of entities from commerce's unverified list. mr. chair, we are the leader of the free world. who else is going to hold china accountable? who else is going to send a message that enough is enough? they are a bad actor on the global stage. they undermine us at every turn. yes, this is an amendment. yes, it may take a moment to work through it. yes, that may require more time, but this is the people's house. we do the work, we take the time, and we get it right. mr. chair, i urge adoption of my amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. [[page h4389]] ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i appreciate the gentleman's passion on this, but this is an appropriations bill. an authorizing bill is the appropriate place to do it. i would be happy to look at working with mr. ogles on the authorizing bill to take care of the issues that you care about, but i right now oppose it on this bill. mr. chair, before i close, we had a previous amendment that the gentlewoman from georgia had in which she made statements about secretary of defense austin. i follow the advice of a very wise president of the united states. i kind of trusted my memory, but i decided to verify. i will, for the record, state that secretary austin did not make any statement in any way, shape, or form that u.s. men and women would be fighting in ukraine. he did say--and i did hear him say this in some of the earlier briefings--that if we do not stop the russian aggression in ukraine, it will spread into nato and it could result in the united states and nato sons and daughters fighting--``could,'' and that is if russia spread beyond ukraine. mr. chair, i want my colleagues to know how strongly i oppose this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles). the amendment was agreed to. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i move that the committee do now rise. the motion was agreed to. accordingly, the committee rose; and the speaker pro tempore (mr. ogles) having assumed the chair, mr. obernolte, acting chair of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union, reported that that committee, having had under consideration the bill (h.r. 8774) making appropriations for the department of defense for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2025, and for other purposes, had come to no resolution thereon. ____________________