[congressional record volume 166, number 132 (monday, july 27, 2020)] [house] [pages h3873-h3878] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] commission on the social status of black men and boys act mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (s. 2163) to establish the commission on the social status of black men and boys, to study and make recommendations to address social problems affecting black men and boys, and for other purposes. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: s. 2163 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``commission on the social status of black men and boys act''. sec. 2. commission establishment and membership. (a) establishment.--the commission on the social status of black men and boys (hereinafter in this act referred to as ``the commission'') is established within the united states commission on civil rights office of the staff director. (b) membership.--the commission shall consist of 19 members appointed as follows: (1) the senate majority leader shall appoint one member who is not employed by the federal government and is an expert on issues affecting black men and boys in america. (2) the senate minority leader shall appoint one member who is not employed by the federal government and is an expert on issues affecting black men and boys in america. (3) the house of representatives majority leader shall appoint one member who is not employed by the federal government and is an expert on issues affecting black men and boys in america. (4) the house of representatives minority leader shall appoint one member who is not employed by the federal government and is an expert on issues affecting black men and boys in america. (5) the chair of the congressional black caucus shall be a member of the commission, as well as 5 additional members of the congressional black caucus who shall be individuals that either sit on the following committees of relevant jurisdiction or are experts on issues affecting black men and boys in the united states, including-- (a) education; (b) justice and civil rights; (c) healthcare; (d) labor and employment; and (e) housing. (6) the staff director of the united states commission on civil rights shall appoint one member from within the staff of the united states commission on civil rights who is an expert in issues relating to black men and boys. (7) the chair of the united states equal employment opportunity commission shall appoint one member from within the staff of the united states equal employment opportunity commission who is an expert in equal employment issues impacting black men. (8) the secretary of education shall appoint one member from within the department of education who is an expert in urban education. (9) the attorney general shall appoint one member from within the department of justice who is an expert in racial disparities within the criminal justice system. (10) the secretary of health and human services shall appoint one member from within the department of health and human services who is an expert in health issues facing black men. (11) the secretary of housing and urban development shall appoint one member from within the department of housing and urban development who is an expert in housing and development in urban communities. (12) the secretary of labor shall appoint one member from within the department of labor who is an expert in labor issues impacting black men. (13) the president of the united states shall appoint 2 members who are not employed by the federal government and are experts on issues affecting black men and boys in america. (c) membership by political party.--if after the commission is appointed there is a partisan imbalance of commission members, the congressional leaders of the political party with fewer members on the commission shall jointly name additional members to create partisan parity on the commission. sec. 3. other matters relating to appointment; removal. (a) timing of initial appointments.--each initial appointment to the commission shall be made no later than 90 days after the commission is established. if any appointing authorities fail to appoint a member to the commission, their appointment shall be made by the staff director of the commission on civil rights. (b) terms.--except as otherwise provided in this section, the term of a member of the commission shall be 4 years. for the purpose of providing staggered terms, the first term of those members initially appointed under paragraphs (1) through (5) of section 2 shall be appointed to 2-year terms with all other terms lasting 4 years. members are eligible for consecutive reappointment. (c) removal.--a member of the commission may be removed from the commission at any time by the appointing authority should the member fail to meet commission responsibilities. once the seat becomes vacant, the appointing authority is responsible for filling the vacancy in the commission before the next meeting. (d) vacancies.--the appointing authority of a member of the commission shall either reappoint that member at the end of that member's term or appoint another person meeting the qualifications for that appointment. in the event of a vacancy arising during a term, the appointing authority shall, before the next meeting of the commission, appoint a replacement to finish that term. sec. 4. leadership election. at the first meeting of the commission each year, the members shall elect a chair and a secretary. a vacancy in the chair or secretary shall be filled by vote of the remaining members. the chair and secretary are eligible for consecutive reappointment. sec. 5. commission duties and powers. (a) study.-- (1) in general.--the commission shall conduct a systematic study of the conditions affecting black men and boys, including homicide rates, arrest and incarceration rates, poverty, violence, fatherhood, mentorship, drug abuse, death rates, disparate income and wealth levels, school performance in all grade levels including postsecondary education and college, and health issues. (2) trends.--the commission shall document trends regarding the topics described in paragraph (1) and report on the community impacts of relevant government programs within the scope of such topics. (b) proposal of measures.--the commission shall propose measures to alleviate and remedy the underlying causes of the conditions described in subsection (a), which may include recommendations of changes to the law, recommendations for how to implement related policies, and recommendations for how to create, develop, or improve upon government programs. (c) suggestions and comments.--the commission shall accept suggestions or comments pertinent to the applicable issues from members of congress, governmental agencies, public and private organizations, and private citizens. (d) staff and administrative support.--the office of the staff director of the united states commission on civil rights shall provide staff and administrative support to the commission. all entities of the united states government shall provide information that is otherwise a public record at the request of the commission. sec. 6. commission meeting requirements. (a) first meeting.--the first meeting of the commission shall take place no later than 30 days after the initial members are all appointed. meetings shall be focused on significant issues impacting black men and boys, for the purpose of initiating research ideas and delegating research tasks to commission members to initiate the first annual report described in section 7. (b) quarterly meetings.--the commission shall meet quarterly. in addition to all quarterly meetings, the commission shall meet at other times at the call of the chair or as determined by a majority of commission members. (c) quorum; rule for voting on final actions.--a majority of the members of the commission constitute a quorum, and an affirmative vote of a majority of the members present is required for final action. (d) expectations for attendance by members.--members are expected to attend all commission meetings. in the case of an absence, members are expected to report to the chair prior to the meeting and allowance may be made for an absent member to participate remotely. members will still be responsible for fulfilling prior commitments, regardless of attendance status. if a member is absent twice in a given year, he or she will be reviewed by the chair and appointing authority and further action will be considered, including removal and replacement on the commission. (e) minutes.--minutes shall be taken at each meeting by the secretary, or in that individual's absence, the chair shall select another commission member to take minutes during that absence. the commission shall make its minutes publicly available and accessible not later than one week after each meeting. sec. 7. annual report guidelines. the commission shall make an annual report, beginning the year of the first commission meeting. the report shall address the current conditions affecting black men and boys and make recommendations to address these issues. the report shall be submitted to the president, the congress, members of the president's cabinet, and the chairs of the appropriate committees of jurisdiction. the commission shall make the report publicly available online on a centralized federal website. sec. 8. commission compensation. members of the commission shall serve on the commission without compensation. the speaker pro tempore (mr. brown of maryland). pursuant to the rule, the gentlewoman from georgia (mrs. mcbath) and the gentleman from north dakota (mr. armstrong) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from georgia. [[page h3874]] general leave mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on the bill under consideration. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentlewoman from georgia? there was no objection. mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, today, we remember the life and legacy of congressman john lewis. we mourn his passing, but we celebrate his incalculable contributions to our country. the world is truly a better place because john dedicated his life to make it so. i rise in front of this chamber as we vote to create the commission on the social status of black men and boys. this commission is only possible because of the barriers broken by black men like john lewis. it is only possible because of the tireless efforts of black women like congresswoman frederica wilson, who has led the introduction of this bill. the world has changed for black men and boys in this country since john lewis was beaten and bloodied on a bridge in selma, alabama. we have come a long way, but it is no secret that black men and boys continue to face unjust hurdles in america. the commission will search for ways to address these inequities, from education to unemployment, housing to healthcare, justice to civil rights. as john once said: we have a moral obligation, a mission, and a mandate to do what we can to make our country and our world a better place and to help usher in a loving community where no one is left out or left behind. i believe this commission will help us do just that. i believe that it will help us create a better future for our children and for our grandchildren because while we have come so far, we still have a long way to go. i know that you can do everything right as a parent and still see your child, a young black man, taken away from you for reasons that are far out of your control. when i got pregnant with my son, jordan, he was a miracle for me. i was not sure i was ever going to be able to have children. i dreamed of who jordan would become. i dreamed of watching him walk across the stage at his high school graduation, full of love and full of hope for the future. but almost 8 years ago, jordan was sitting in the back seat of a car with his friends at a gas station. a man pulled up, parked next to them, and complained about the loud music that they were playing. he pulled out a gun, and he fired 10 shots into the car, hitting jordan three times, killing my only son. and then, he simply drove away. i believed i had done everything right, but at the end of the day, jordan was a young black man. and i felt that injustice. so while i look back at the life and legacy of john lewis, and i remark how far we truly have come, i must also look toward a future without my son, and i see how far we still have to go. as we vote today to create the commission on the social status of black men and boys, i hope we can go forward in strength and in hope because there is always hope. it is what brings us together. we can work toward a future that we all believe in, and i am proud to take the next step on that journey today. i urge my colleagues to stand with me in supporting this bipartisan bill. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. {time} 1100 mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise in support of s. 2163, the commission on the social status of black men and boys act. i want to thank senator rubio for his leadership on this bill in the senate and representative wilson for her leadership in the house. i want to say a special thanks to my friend, congresswoman mcbath, for utilizing such a personal and tragic story toward a positive outcome. it is great to be here with the gentlewoman this morning. this bill establishes a commission within the u.s. commission on civil rights dedicated to studying conditions and disparities that both black men and boys face. the commission will study issues such as arrest and incarceration rates, poverty, homicide, school performance, disparate income levels, and health issues. congressional leadership, the president, and the executive agencies will appoint at least 19 members to serve on this bipartisan commission. those members are charged with developing policy recommendations, documenting trends, and issuing an annual report aimed at reducing the adversity confronting black men and boys across this nation. these reports and recommendations will assist congress and the rest of the federal government in creating policies to address these issues. the bill mandates political parity among the members of the commission in an effort to reduce the potential for political partisanship and bias. our founding document, the declaration of independence, declares that all men are created equal, and the eastern facade of the supreme court pronounces equal justice under the law. however, we all know inequality still exists. as a defense attorney, i saw how sentencing disparities on drug crimes, minimum mandatory sentencing, school zone sentencing enhancements, and pretrial release policies often had disparate racial impacts. by creating a bipartisan commission to study inequality in government programs, we take the necessary steps to identify and address disparities for black american men and boys. this bill will help ensure that we make meaningful progress in creating a more free and equal country. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to join me in support of this bill, and i reserve the balance of my time. mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i would like to thank my colleague, mr. armstrong, for such passionate and committed words toward truly making sure that we have a just and fair society for everyone. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from texas (ms. jackson lee), who is my good friend. ms. jackson lee. mr. speaker, i thank the gentlewoman for her leadership, and i particularly rise today to thank all of my colleagues who joined in this historic moment with congresswoman frederica wilson. let it be known how hard and consistently she worked and with much perseverance and determination. we give her tribute today. we thank senator rubio for joining and helping with the senate, because it is a bipartisan bill. we, likewise, acknowledge the commission on the social status of black men and boys. we acknowledge these words that she said to me this morning: it will help save lives. that is why we stand on the floor today, because we recognize that systemic racism exists and the encounters of our young boys with people who determine that they are not human or equal wind up in the great loss of life or their encounter with each other. so i am delighted that members of the judiciary committee, members of the education and labor committee, and other committees focus on how we can do well. this scripture reminds me of where we are today: `` . . . this is the kind of fasting i want: free those who are wrongly imprisoned; lighten the burden of those who work for you. let the oppressed go free, and remove the chains that bind people. share your food with the hungry, and give shelter to the homeless.'' this is a time where we are doing what we need to do for black boys and men. this is a time when we stand up and be counted to end systemic racism as it impacts them and this nation. mr. speaker, i ask support for this outstanding and historic legislation. mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the distinguished gentleman from new york (mr jeffries). mr. jeffries. mr. speaker, i rise today in strong support of this legislation which will create a long-overdue commission on the social status of black men and boys. we have come a long way in america, but we still have a long way to go. slavery was not a necessary evil. it was a crime against humanity anchored in kidnap, rape, torture, lynching, and the systemic oppression and [[page h3875]] enslavement of people of african descent century after century after century. we are still living with its legacy today. frederick douglass once said: ``it is easier to build strong children than it is to repair broken men.'' so it is my hope that this commission can begin the real process of repairing broken boys, broken men, broken families, and broken communities as a result of the systemic racism that has been in the soil of america for 401 years. i thank the distinguished gentlewoman from florida, frederica wilson, for her tremendous leadership. vote ``yes.'' mr. speaker, as a senior member of the house judiciary committee and a cosponsor of the house companion to this bill, i rise in strong support of s. 2163 ``the commission on the social status of black men and boys act of 2019'', which establishes a bipartisan commission that will examine the social disparities that disproportionately affect black men and boys in america. i want to thank my friend and colleague, frederica wilson, for introducing this crucial piece of legislation. as we have seen time and time again, the reality of being black in america today is characterized by facing insurmountable and unjust challenges in every aspect of day-to-day life as well as living in constant fear for your life. from trayvon martin to tamir rice to ahmaud arbery to george floyd, our black brothers are targeted and murdered for the color of their skin. we are all too familiar with the overwhelming hardships and significant societal disparities that face black men every day in education, criminal justice, health, employment, and so many other areas. the low rate of high school retention among black male students is directly related to the high rates of joblessness and incarceration in the african-american population. it is no secret that mass incarceration has unfairly and disproportionately affected the lives of black men in the united states. african americans are incarcerated at more than 5 times the rate of their white counterparts. and 1 out of every 3 black boys born today can expect to be sentenced to prison, compared 1 out 6 latino boys; one out of 17 white boys. these barriers to quality employment further exacerbate the cycles of poverty that in turn lead to severe inequities in the areas of health and quality health care. we must find ways to disrupt and end this cycle and instead empower and uplift the black community. with this in mind, this bill enables our nation to better understand and eventually eliminate the educational and social chasms that have made it extraordinarily difficult for black males to become upwardly mobile. this bipartian commission will recommend actionable policies and practices to improve upon or augment current government programs to alleviate and remedy the underlying causes of the adverse social conditions that are a reality for too many black men and boys. i ask all members to join me in voting for s. 2163, ``the commission on the social status of black men and boys act of 2019.'' mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from rhode island (mr. cicilline). mr. cicilline. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman for yielding. mr. speaker, i want to begin by acknowledging the extraordinary leadership of frederica wilson, who has spent her entire life dedicated to the well-being of young black men and boys and has decades and decades of incredible support of young people in her community. this commission is a reflection of that commitment. merely because of the color of their skin, black men and boys are criminalized, separated from their families and communities, and targeted for police violence at alarmingly high rates. black men are 250 percent more likely to be killed by police than white men. that fact is a stain on the soul of this country. but america's sins extend far beyond the deadly disparities in policing. racism touches nearly every aspect of our lives, oftentimes in the most insidious and subtle of ways, yet still in plain view in the areas of healthcare, education, and economic opportunities. we must address the sins of america's past that have revealed themselves in the inequalities of america's present. the commission on the social status of black men and boys moves us one step closer to building a more perfect union where all americans, regardless of race, have an equal opportunity, not just to get by, but to get ahead. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman for his courtesy, and i strongly urge my colleagues to support this excellent bill. mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from california (ms. lee), who is our great fighter for justice. ms. lee of california. mr. speaker, first, let me thank the gentlewoman for yielding and for sharing her story about her beautiful son, jordan, and using her tragedy to ensure not only the survival, but the thriving, for african-american boys and men. also, to congresswoman wilson, i have to thank frederica for her extraordinary leadership and determination to ensure that the disparities affecting our black men and boys are finally being heard and addressed within our federal government. while serving in the california legislature, i initiated and chaired the california commission on the status of african-american males. those findings sparked a difficult but necessary discussion in our state, which is still relevant today, and were implemented as legislation and funding priorities. this commission at the national level is long overdue. all too often, black men and boys face structural challenges that threaten their chance at a good education, harm their health, and limit their employment potential. additionally, the low rate of high school retention among black male students is directly related to the high rates of joblessness and incarceration in the african-american population. in this moment, the horrors of systemic racism are front and center, and the manifestations are before us each and every day. this commission brings hope. it will transform the lives of young black men from infancy to adulthood and will begin to remove so many of the barriers that have led to shattered lives and hopelessness. it is about hope. mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from massachusetts (ms. pressley), who is an extraordinary warrior for justice in america. ms. pressley. mr. speaker, today i rise on behalf of every black man and black boy who has been dehumanized, surveilled, and targeted by the policies drafted and debated within the walls of this very institution and institutions of power throughout our nation. i rise today to offer my unwavering support and to thank congresswoman wilson for laboring in love to see the commission on the social status of black men and boys act become a reality. it is long- overdue legislation that will push our nation one step closer to grappling with the systemic racism and structural barriers that have robbed us of the lives of our black husbands, our black brothers, and our black sons. passage of this bill today is a testament to the longstanding calls and efforts in communities, including in my own boston. when i was on the boston city council in 2014, we attempted to establish a commission like this, and that effort was vetoed. so it feels so good to see this happening on the federal level. the passage of this bill today is a testament to the longstanding calls and efforts throughout our nation to examine and combat the systemic inequities and disparities impacting black boys and men from education and employment to health and to housing and to incarceration. with this bill's passage today, we declare on the floor of the house of representatives, the people's house, that we are our brother's keeper, that black lives matter, that black men matter, and that our black boys matter. mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from oregon (mr. blumenauer), who is my good friend and comrade. mr. blumenauer. mr. speaker, i appreciate the gentlewoman's courtesy and her courage, and i welcome this commission's coming forward. it is part of a dynamic that is playing out across american cities. in my community, the cries for racial justice and the recognition of the challenges that have been faced by black men and boys in this commission is a step in that direction. [[page h3876]] but i would say this congress can take another step. we have the more act which would legalize cannabis. the selective enforcement of the prohibition of marijuana against black men and boys has been a tragedy. it has ruined hundreds of thousands of lives. this congress can take action. the bill has already passed out of our judiciary committee with a bipartisan majority. we ought to include that in our next package and start to right the wrongs and pry away the cold hand of richard nixon's misguided war on drugs that has had such a vicious impact on black men and women. we ought to start with that now. mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. we also have the states act, which enjoys a huge bipartisan cosponsorship among members of the judiciary committee. i think it is unfortunate that sometimes we choose partisanship and gamesmanship over passing what i think is one of the most criminal justice reform-minded and drug reform-minded congresses that has ever set foot in washington, d.c., and there is a bill that actually would have the potential to possibly become law. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from florida (ms. wasserman schultz), who is a good friend and a committed member from the sunshine state of florida. ms. wasserman schultz. mr. speaker, i rise in support of this important legislation authored by my friend and colleague, congresswoman wilson. since serving on miami-dade's school board and seeing too many young black men drop out of school with lifelong repercussions, congresswoman wilson has worked tirelessly to intervene. she single-handedly began the 5000 role models of excellence project, a highly successful mentorship and leadership program that continues to transform countless young black men's lives. in the wake of george floyd's murder, millions of voices have demanded justice and a dismantling of the oppressive systems that harmed black men for generations. in america, black children are three times more likely to be born in poverty than white children. school districts where the majority of those enrolled are students of color receive billions less than mostly white districts, while disciplinary policies in classes disproportionately impact black students. after school, black male unemployment is consistently almost double that of their white counterparts. black men represent 12 percent of the population but approximately 33 percent of the prison population. this legislation makes righting these wrongs a priority by creating this national commission to recommend major changes to policy to dramatically improve the lives of black men and boys. congresswoman frederica wilson has made this her life's work. she has literally carried thousands of young men on her shoulders to success. as we honor the legacy of john lewis, there is no more appropriate tribute than to pass this bill and continue the long march toward racial equality. {time} 1115 mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new york (mr. meeks), a stalwart for justice and hope. mr. meeks. mr. speaker, i first thank congresswoman wilson, and, of course, congresswoman mcbath. mr. speaker, i stand before you today to speak on the creation of a commission on the social status of black men and boys at the u.s. civil rights commission. racial inequality in this country remains stark and stubborn. black men are 40 percent more likely to be unemployed today than white men; twice as likely not to own the home they live in; 2\1/ 2\ times as likely to be killed by police officers; and 5 times as likely to be locked behind bars. mr. speaker, we cannot ignore these problems. we cannot waive away what is right before our eyes. racial inequality in this country must be confronted. the time has come to address this most painful of issues. indeed, the time has long past, but justice delayed is better than no justice at all. ``to those who have said, `be patient and wait,' we have long said that we cannot be patient. we do not want our freedom gradually; but we want to be free now. we are tired. we are tired of being beaten by policemen. we are tired of seeing our people locked up in jail over and over again. and then you holler, `be patient.' how long can we be patient? we want our freedom, and we want it now.'' these are the words of john robert lewis at the march on washington in 1963, and we need to heed them today. mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from california (ms. judy chu), who is a good friend and colleague fighting on behalf of communities of color. ms. judy chu of california. mr. speaker, i rise today in strong support of senate 2163, a bill to address the root causes of inequality for black men and boys in america. mr. speaker, today, as the civil rights icon, john lewis, is laying in state just a few feet in the capitol rotunda, i am so moved to know that the banner of equality, which he waved his whole life is being picked up by the next generation. as chair of the congressional asian pacific american caucus, i have seen americans of all backgrounds and ethnicities united in filling the streets to demand reforms to a criminal justice system that does not value black lives and to an economy that does not give black boys an equal chance of success. the people have had enough with the systemic inequalities that have persisted since our founding. but we cannot fix them unless we understand them. that is what this commission will do by looking at the obstacles and policy and culture that keep black youth from having the same opportunities that whites do. we must listen to the demands of a country that is saying ``no'' to racial inequality. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.'' mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from illinois (mr. danny k. davis), the gentleman from my original home state. mr. danny k. davis of illinois. mr. speaker, i thank the gentlewoman from georgia for giving me the opportunity to speak on this important bill. as a matter of fact, representative frederica wilson has made this her life's work. as a matter of fact, i am wearing her 5000 role model tie, where for many years she established one of the most effective programs in public education with the dade miami school board, where 5,000 young males are taught and trained. mr. speaker, we have had many efforts. eleanor holmes norton and i created the caucus on black men and boys. we have been all over the country with conferences. and i remind us that what we say is one thing, but what we do is something else. mr. speaker, i hope that we take into consideration all of the things that we know that has caused the disparities among african american males and do something that is going to really make a difference. put them into action. mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, may i inquire how much time is remaining? the speaker pro tempore. the gentlewoman from georgia has 6\1/2\ minutes remaining. the gentleman from north dakota has 16\1/2\ minutes remaining. mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, on behalf of the gentlewoman from florida (ms. wilson), i read into the record a statement. mr. speaker, the commission on the social status of black men and boys is a bill that is long overdue. the commission will review police brutality, gun violence, fatherhood, recruiting and training black male teachers, and even speakers, which play an important role in the lives of black boys. welfare reform and the 1994 crime bill--which includes the controversial ``three strikes'' provision and harsh sentencing guidelines--will also be revisited. these federal policies left a devastating impact on black men and boys in america. the underlying goal of the commission is to interrupt the school-to-prison pipeline and to better understand and, eventually, eliminate the educational and social chasms that have made it extraordinarily difficult for black males to become upwardly mobile. perhaps, the most dangerous issue facing black boys in our country is racism itself. too often, they are perceived as criminals by [[page h3877]] the time they reach the age of 5. they are labeled delinquent, not rowdy. they are hardened criminals, not misguided youth. their very existence is often seen as a threat. it is a tragic reality that black males in america are treated as their own class of citizens. we see this treatment reflected in social outcomes in such areas as education, criminal justice, healthcare, and employment. the numbers are staggering. more than 1 out of every 6 black men, who, today, should be between the ages of 20 and 54 years old have disappeared from our daily lives. low rates of high school retention among black male students directly relates to the high rates of joblessness and incarceration. more than two-thirds of black male dropouts end up serving time in state or federal prison, and while black males overall make up roughly 13 percent of the united states population, they represent nearly 40 percent of all men serving time in state and federal prisons. mr. speaker, i am confident that the commission on the social status of black men and boys will change the world for so many people and create the paths to success that they have been denied for generations, and, ultimately, close societal, economic, and cultural divides. mr. speaker, i thank my colleagues. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. armstrong. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this bill. i am not an expert on all of these issues, but i do know quite a bit about criminal justice. it is important to recognize that a lot of things we are talking about in these bills are delivered at the local level, whether it is criminal justice, whether it is education, whether it is any of those types of things. this is not about percentages and data points. this is about communities, and this is about people. but at no time in history have we been better able to collect information in a more usable way. when i served in the state senate in north dakota, i was the chair of what we call our justice reinvestment committee. and what we found out very shortly was that our data was all over the place. in order to make smart, effectuating change and provide localities and states and communities with the proper information so they can target where they can really do the most good--oftentimes on strained budgets and just different areas--it is important that studies like this come out because there are things we can do in congress. to be quite frank, we are behind the game. conservative and liberal states all across the country have started on this, and they started before us--states like north dakota, states like colorado, states like mississippi. it is our job to get in the game. it is our job to provide them with the information we can. and, yes, we will make reforms here, but we will also give them the tools and the data so they can really take a deep dive into their own communities and figure out where they can best serve their constituents and where they can start getting rid of these institutional racial disparities that exist, whether it be in the criminal justice system, whether it be in education, whether it be in healthcare. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i thank the ranking member, mr. armstrong, and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle for supporting our need to really make systemic change in the country. i also thank congresswoman wilson. if it had not been for her legislation, i would not be standing before you today. congressman richmond and also congressman jeffries, senator rubio, senator harris, and senator booker; it has been an honor to work with each of them in bringing this bipartisan legislation to a vote. mr. speaker, i thank my colleagues for their support for this very, very critical bill, and i look forward to the important work that this commission will accomplish on behalf of all black men and boys and on behalf of my son, jordan. i am so grateful to this body for finding this so critically important, so that no one will ever have to feel the pain of losing their black child, their black male son to the disparities and inequities that face communities of color each and every single day. i thank every one of my colleagues. i thank the thousands and thousands of parents that i have spoken to over the years, and all of the survivors of the families who have lost their loved ones. i thank them for finding this important. i thank them for standing up and finding this timely in a world that does not always see young black males as human. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentlewoman from georgia (mrs. mcbath) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, s. 2163. the question was taken. the speaker pro tempore. in the opinion of the chair, two-thirds being in the affirmative, the ayes have it. mrs. mcbath. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to section 3 of house resolution 965, the yeas and nays are ordered. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 368, nays 1, not voting 61, as follows: [roll no. 167] yeas--368 adams aderholt aguilar allen allred amash amodei armstrong arrington axne bacon baird balderson banks barragan bass beatty bera beyer biggs bilirakis bishop (ga) blumenauer blunt rochester bonamici bost boyle, brendan f. brindisi brooks (in) brown (md) brownley (ca) buchanan buck budd burchett burgess butterfield calvert carbajal cardenas carter (ga) carter (tx) cartwright case casten (il) castor (fl) castro (tx) chabot cheney chu, judy cicilline cisneros clark (ma) clarke (ny) clay cleaver cline cloud clyburn cohen cole comer conaway connolly cook cooper correa costa courtney cox (ca) craig crawford crenshaw crist crow cuellar cunningham davids (ks) davidson (oh) davis (ca) davis, danny k. davis, rodney dean defazio degette delauro delbene delgado demings desaulnier deutch dingell doggett doyle, michael f. duncan dunn emmer engel escobar eshoo espaillat estes evans ferguson finkenauer fitzpatrick fleischmann fletcher foster foxx (nc) frankel fudge gabbard gaetz gallagher gallego garamendi garcia (ca) garcia (il) garcia (tx) gianforte gibbs gohmert golden gomez gonzalez (oh) gonzalez (tx) gooden gottheimer granger graves (la) green (tn) green, al (tx) grijalva grothman guest guthrie haaland harder (ca) harris hartzler hastings hayes heck hern, kevin herrera beutler hice (ga) higgins (ny) hill (ar) himes holding horn, kendra s. horsford houlahan hoyer huffman hurd (tx) jackson lee jacobs jayapal jeffries johnson (ga) johnson (la) johnson (tx) jordan joyce (oh) joyce (pa) kaptur katko keating keller kelly (il) kelly (ms) kelly (pa) kennedy khanna kildee kilmer kim kind kirkpatrick krishnamoorthi kuster (nh) kustoff (tn) lamalfa lamb lamborn langevin larsen (wa) larson (ct) latta lawrence lawson (fl) lee (ca) lee (nv) lesko levin (ca) levin (mi) lieu, ted lipinski loebsack lofgren long lowenthal lowey lucas lujan luria lynch malinowski maloney, carolyn b. maloney, sean marshall mast matsui mcadams mcbath mccarthy mccaul mccollum mceachin mcgovern mchenry mckinley mcnerney meeks meng meuser mfume miller moolenaar moore morelle moulton mucarsel-powell murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal norcross norman nunes o'halleran ocasio-cortez omar pallone palmer panetta pappas pascrell payne pence perlmutter perry peters peterson phillips pingree pocan porter posey pressley price (nc) quigley raskin reed reschenthaler rice (ny) rice (sc) richmond riggleman roby rodgers (wa) rogers (al) rose (ny) rose, john w. rouda roy roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger rush rutherford ryan sanchez sarbanes scalise scanlon schakowsky schiff schneider schrader schrier schweikert scott (va) scott, austin scott, david sensenbrenner serrano sewell (al) shalala sherman sherrill simpson sires slotkin smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (wa) smucker soto spanberger spano speier stanton stefanik steil stevens stivers suozzi swalwell (ca) takano taylor thompson (ca) thompson (ms) thompson (pa) thornberry tipton titus tlaib [[page h3878]] tonko torres (ca) torres small (nm) trahan trone turner underwood upton van drew vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky walberg walden walorski waltz wasserman schultz waters watkins watson coleman weber (tx) welch wenstrup westerman wexton wild williams wilson (fl) wittman womack woodall wright yarmuth yoho young zeldin nays--1 brooks (al) not voting--61 abraham babin barr bergman bishop (nc) bishop (ut) brady bucshon bustos byrne carson (in) collins (ga) curtis desjarlais diaz-balart flores fortenberry fulcher gosar graves (ga) graves (mo) griffith hagedorn higgins (la) hollingsworth hudson huizenga johnson (oh) johnson (sd) king (ia) king (ny) kinzinger lahood loudermilk luetkemeyer marchant massie mcclintock mitchell mooney (wv) mullin murphy (nc) neguse newhouse olson palazzo roe, david p. rogers (ky) rooney (fl) rouzer shimkus smith (mo) stauber steube stewart tiffany timmons wagner walker webster (fl) wilson (sc) {time} 1230 messrs. cuellar and yoho changed their vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.'' so (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the rules were suspended and the bill was passed. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. stated for: mr. bergman. mr. speaker, on rollcall vote no. 167, i am not recorded because i was not present in the house. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall no. 167. mr. carson of indiana. mr. speaker, on rollcall vote no. 167, i was unavoidably detained and unable to cast my vote. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall vote no. 167. mr. mitchell. mr. speaker, on rollcall no. 167, i am not recorded. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall no. 167. mrs. wagner. mr. speaker, i am unable to attend today's vote series due to events in my district. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall no. 167. mr. luetkemeyer. mr. speaker, i was unable to be present for a recorded vote on s. 2163, the commission on the social status of black men and boys act. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall no. 167. members recorded pursuant to house resolution 965, 116th congress boyle, brendan f. (lamb) castro (tx) (escobar) cleaver (davids (ks)) desaulnier (matsui) deutch (rice (ny)) doyle, michael f. (cartwright) frankel (clark (ma)) garamendi (sherman) hastings (wasserman schultz) higgins (ny) (sanchez) johnson (tx) (jeffries) kelly (il) (raskin) khanna (sherman) kind (beyer) kirkpatrick (gallego) kuster (nh) (brownley (ca)) langevin (lynch) lawson (fl) (evans) lieu, ted (beyer) lipinski (cooper) lofgren (jeffries) lowenthal (beyer) lowey (meng) mceachin (wexton) moore (beyer) moulton (rose (ny)) nadler (jeffries) napolitano (correa) pascrell (sires) payne (wasserman schultz) pingree (cicilline) pocan (raskin) porter (wexton) serrano (jeffries) watson coleman (pallone) welch (mcgovern) wilson (fl) (hayes) ____________________