[congressional record volume 170, number 39 (tuesday, march 5, 2024)] [house] [pages h791-h792] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] dhs biodetection improvement act mr. green of tennessee. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 6174) to improve the biodetection functions of the department of homeland security, and for other purposes. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 6174 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``dhs biodetection improvement act''. sec. 2. dhs utilization of department of energy national laboratories and sites for certain biodetection research and development relating to the missions of the dhs. (a) in general.--the secretary of homeland security shall conduct an assessment of how the department of homeland security has utilized department of energy national laboratories and sites regarding research and development in carrying out the missions of the department of homeland security, in accordance with section 309 of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 189). (b) strategy on biodetection research and development.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of homeland security shall submit to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate the assessment required under subsection (a), together with a strategy for how the department of homeland security will conduct research and development in coordination with department of energy national laboratories and sites to address biodetection research and development of the department of homeland security, including the following: (1) identifying biodetection technologies that can, either individually or together, meet the biodetection mission needs as outlined in department of homeland security capabilities analysis and requirements documents and informed by studies produced by the comptroller general of the united states, such as the national re-assessment of the biowatch collector network to increase the fraction of population covered, as developed by the countering weapons of mass destruction office of the department in november 2021, and other such future studies as applicable. (2) developing an acquisition and procurement plan to acquire and provide, in accordance with federal law, the federal acquisition regulation, and department of homeland security acquisition and procurement management directives, the biodetection technologies referred to in paragraph (1) to existing biowatch jurisdictions. (3) conducting periodic external evaluations to identify gaps and potential failure points with respect to such biodetection technologies, and recommending contingency plans in the event such biodetection technologies do not perform as expected or intended. (4) assisting, as appropriate and in partnership with federal, state, local, and tribal governments, institutions of higher education (as such term is defined in section 101 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1001)), and the private sector, with the development of clearly defined program and technical requirements for future department of homeland security environmental biodetection programs, including any related transformational program of research and development. (c) reports to congress.--not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of homeland security shall provide to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate an update of the assessment and strategy required under this section, including any challenges to implementing such strategy. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from tennessee (mr. green) and the gentleman from louisiana (mr. carter) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from tennessee. general leave mr. green of tennessee. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on h.r. 6174. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from tennessee? there was no objection. mr. green of tennessee. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise in support of h.r. 6174. the department of homeland security established the biowatch program to collect and test air samples for biological agents likely to be used in a bioterrorism attack. however, there have been ample criticisms and questions about the effectiveness of the biowatch program. as such, in 2019, dhs launched a new acquisition program to move into the next generation of detection of biothreats and to replace the biowatch program with new and more reliable technology. however, dhs has not used all the resources at its disposal, including the national laboratories housed within the department of energy. h.r. 6174, the dhs biodetection improvement act, would ensure that dhs is doing everything it can to improve biodetection research and development, including requiring dhs to explain how it plans to utilize the expertise of the department of energy national labs. i thank congressman strong for his work on this bill, and i hope all members will support this legislation today. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 6174, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. carter of louisiana. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of h.r. 6174, the dhs biodetection improvement act. this bill seeks to enhance biodetection capabilities at the department of homeland security by leveraging resources at the department of energy's national laboratories. currently, dhs' office of countering weapons of mass destruction, or cwmd, leads dhs' biodetection work. the premier biodetection program is biowatch, which is outdated, expensive, and labor-intensive. cwmd's more recent efforts to advance biodetection technologies have been delayed because of this. h.r. 6174 would move dhs' biodetection programs forward by requiring the department to complete an assessment of how it is utilizing the department of energy's national laboratories for biodetection. the bill would require dhs to create the defined program and technical requirements necessary to advance biodetection programs, including critical research and development. further, the bill requires the secretary of homeland security to provide congress with a strategy for conducting regular external evaluations to identify capability gaps and recommend contingency plans if biodetection technologies underperform. as foreign and domestic security threats evolve, congress' support for advancements in biodetection programs is key. mr. speaker, i encourage my colleagues to support this bill, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. green of tennessee. mr. speaker, i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from alabama (mr. strong), the sponsor of this bill. mr. strong. mr. speaker, i thank chairman green for his support, as well as that of my colleagues who join me in introducing this legislation, h.r. 6174, the dhs biodetection improvement act. threats from america's enemies have continued to evolve and become more complex. the anthrax attack of 2001 opened our eyes to a new threat landscape that includes acts of bioterrorism. in the wake of the 2001 attacks, the department of homeland security established the biowatch program, which monitors, collects, and tests air samples for biological agents likely to be used in a terrorist attack. this technology is vital in protecting americans against bioweapons, and we must have full confidence that it will deliver timely, accurate, and comprehensive information to our partners that operate this system. as a first responder myself, i know the difference that early detection makes. this becomes more vital when responding to an act of bioterrorism, which could have catastrophic consequences. we have worked across all levels of government to improve prevention, detection, and response capabilities, but there remains work to be done. [[page h792]] dhs has faced continuous challenges in developing and acquiring new technologies to move toward the next generation of national biodetection. this legislation would ensure that dhs is fully leveraging every tool and resource to accomplish this goal, to include utilizing the department of energy's national labs to develop new technologies related to biodefense, developing a plan to acquire existing technologies that can meet the department's biodetection mission needs, conducting external evaluations to identify gaps and potential failure points, and reporting to congress a defined plan for the future of biodetection. as our adversaries watch on, we cannot afford to fall behind. america's security depends on it. i was proud to introduce this legislation, the dhs biodetection improvement act, to ensure dhs is prepared to protect americans against bioweapons. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this legislation. mr. carter of louisiana. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. speaker, while dhs has worked to improve its biodetection capabilities, many challenges remain, and the current technologies are aging. h.r. 6174 pairs dhs and the department of energy's national laboratories, which would improve biodetection innovation and, ultimately, keep our communities safe from biological threats. mr. speaker, i hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this critical bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. green of tennessee. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. speaker, again, i urge my colleagues to support h.r. 6174, and i appreciate and thank mr. strong for his hard work on this bill. i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. green) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 6174. the question was taken. the speaker pro tempore. in the opinion of the chair, two-thirds being in the affirmative, the ayes have it. mr. green of tennessee. mr. speaker, i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this question will be postponed. the point of no quorum is considered withdrawn. ____________________