Hayes Stands Firmly Against the Republican Continuing Resolution
November
12
,
2025
WASHINGTON, D.C.
– Today,
Congresswoman Jahana Hayes (CT-05)
released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed
Senate Amendment to H.R. 5371
, 222 to 209:
“The legislation before the U.S. House of Representatives is not a clean continuing resolution (CR) – it is an egregious failure to the American people and does nothing to address the health care crisis that will increase costs for more than 20 million Americans, including 23,000 people living in the Fifth District. The CR provides no assurances from Speaker Johnson for a vote on extending the expiring Affordable Care Act (ACA) tax credits.
“Additionally, this legislation includes dangerous provisions that compromise the health of those who have served our nation. On the heels of Veterans’ Day, the Republican majority chose to include bipartisan language to eliminate $51.7 billion in funding to support service member victims of burn pits and Agent Orange receive the care they deserve.
“Moreover, behind closed doors, a measure was snuck into the CR authorizing Senators to sue the federal government for millions when the law is followed and their records subpoenaed. Despite concerns from Republican House Members themselves, the CR advanced with no changes. At a time when families are overwhelmed with rising health care costs and struggling to put food on the table, Republicans prioritized enriching themselves.
“Notwithstanding calls from across the country for additional oversight over the Executive Branch, the CR fails to insert any protections to stop the Trump Administration from unilaterally clawing back congressionally appropriated dollars or enforcing the separation of powers.
“Throughout my time in Congress, my position has always been consistent: I will not support any legislation that will cause more harm to my constituents. I voted no on the CR because we do not have to choose between feeding people and lowering their health care costs. We can do both, and today, by refusing to negotiate and passing the CR as is, the Republicans proved they lack the courage to address the needs of the American people."
Related Posts
Hayes Statement on the Republican Shutdown
Hayes Statement on Republican-led Continuing Resolution
Permalink:
https://hayes.house.gov/2025/11/hayes-stands-firmly-against-the-republican-continuing-resolution