thank you all so much. what is the plan for this? standing up against the genocide? so actually since we are out this time, i think that we are all on a different whole position right now as a graphic challenge. no more thought because we know that we are not going to be happy to see what it is. but it is going to be like this, it is going to be a different genocide. absolutely tracking. and of course the israel has the right to defend themselves and how they can do it. how are you going to stop the genocide? it is going to be a fight. it is going to be a fight. just the fuck up. we are going to throw a party. stop the genocide. we are going to fight. we are going to fight. we are going to fight. we are going to fight. we are going to fight. we are going to fight. it is unfortunately going to be a lot of regrets that are increasing your career nationally. and what it means is that the future of the united states cannot be glad we are a non-commerist. it is not a complicated issue to say no to this genocide. how are you supposed to say that you will do everything for children here? how are you going to say that with your funds? find this genocide. it is. all of this is going to be about going to the united states. we are not going to support innocent people in the united states. they want to integrate firms and companies in touch with those who are seekinggg houses. you are helping these women bring them into the united states. great old amiga tv's drawing é also, i appreciate you so much seems difficult to feel. you have got to be knowing the competitive, so i just want to thank you. we have performed as a group, because it was our honor to be a because our community makes so much money. so i just want to thank you. there is a difficult time, so you will not just be a elected deputy, but also a difficult time in our democracy. and with what is happening in israel and the fact that iran is a money from us, it is a proxy war. and what is happening with russia and in the free, and making sure that we address the economy at the board, mainly, they get people at temporary visa, so we can actually address this issue at temporary documents. so we can actually come together to address this problem. but what you also know is that through all the time, we know the interest in doing that, and just today, we were deciding to work together to compromise on some of the critical funding areas, but really important in the after-motion, but more importantly, interacting with the community is interesting. and since we are talking about how it is actually taking its seriously, and we are going to be bringing a proposal that actually has a set, they only brought funding for israel, and it was strong for all the members. he does not want us to actually, i said, order not to work. he does not want us to bring a community in israel in gaza. and so he does not want us to fund ukraine in the united kingdom of russia. and so we are now starting to see a shift where we thought we could get some bipartisan work here, because this is about the future of the united states, and what are, whether or not we are going to support the pop-rich state in real-leaders in a three-year-old. and so this is very important, but we will stay tuned if you have did it. i am sorry for that construction. and just more importantly, what you also know, how great poland, the evil needs to need, by every day, for the future of this country to continue. and so, thank you. thank you. thank you.