well, it is been a wild ride. after we spoke last time, i was able to go to be sworn in beginning of january and then i was too close to my due date to be able to fly back to washington. there is a point at which you are restricted because it is unsafe and i was at home for a couple weeks before giving birth to sam. amazing to welcome this baby to my life, but i tragic what has happened every day since, with what is being dismantled at the federal level and what it means for the rest of the kids in the u.s. my older son is so excited to be a big brother. i have a five-year-old and his name's davis, he is the best and i have a little sam who is now three months old. it is challenging because this morning, like all mornings, summer good, some start off with difficulties getting the kids out and you know my toddler was having a bad morning and then sam started crying. you know, just as those moments as a mom, it is really navigating to, but i am lucky to have a supportive partner. it was really inspiring to see how many women were moved by seeing me show up with sam when he was four weeks old because there was a vote that i needed to be there for and they were unwilling to make accommodations for our circumstance and thank you mr. speaker. i rise today with my newborn sam and i think it is because so many women are facing the same struggles of how to navigate. i am taking care of their families and we can sure that they are doing what they need to at work and also facing, you know, hostile work environments that are not friendly and accommodating and understanding. we were able to come together in a bipartisan way. we had a broad coalition of support and the speaker refused to bring it to the floor. so we went through what is called a discharge petition to force a vote on the floor where it actually goes around leadership and only five and 25 years have ever passed and we were able to get enough signatures to force a vote. ultimately, speaker johnson, i tried to kill our ability to vote on it before it came up for that forced vote. once we overcame that, he then adjourned and completely stopped halted business for the rest of the week. he was able to put it in a rule where republicans were put in a position where they could not vote no because they would be voting against many of their number one agenda items and could face, you know, primaries. and so ultimately we were not able to overcome that but we did get a very close to actually getting it done. i know if we had a lot more moms in congress, things would look a lot different for this country. definitely not giving up, we will be bringing back the proxy voting resolution. we will see when the best opportunity is but i know the democratic leadership is very open to looking at this if we are able to get the majority in the next election. i think that women who want to know what to do, i mean definitely follow us for updates and ways to engage but we need more women in places of power whether that is in the boardroom or in government. we need moms voices represented. there is too much at stake for the future of our kids so there is never the right time to run for office. i used to do candidate recruitment and i was trying to tackle women into running for office so i thought would be great and she when i was walking her through, you know, what to expect in that it is never the right time. there is gonna always be reasons not to. she said, well, it sounds like having a kid and so she accidentally recruited me into being open to having a kid because it is never gonna feel like the right time and you are gonna make it work because that is what moms do. yes, sam is going to dc with me next week. next week would mark the first time that i was, i could have officially been back if my resolution would have passed and i could have voted remotely for this time. i was still working in the district but as you know, i have already flown back four times so this will be his fifth time to dc next week so i hope that my son i feel proud that i am his mom and that that i went to fight for all the kids who was health cares on the line and food and support because it could not be more at stake right now. it is so hard but you know, nobody fights harder than a mom. this issue is not going away, we are not gonna stop fighting and we are gonna get this passed but i hope we can ultimately bring johnson to the table on this. very lucky to have these boys in my life.