and mr. speaker, i rise today in strong opposition to this rule, which restricts moms and dads from doing their jobs after welcoming a new child. like so many of our colleagues, it is one of my greatest honors to be a mom. i have two little boys, a son named davis, who is five, and my little guy here, sam, who is now nine weeks old. it is also one of my greatest honors to have been elected by my constituents to represent them in congress. and i can tell you after being a mom here and being only the 13th member to have ever given birth while serving in congress, voting member, i can tell you we have a long ways to go to make this place accessible for young families like mine. when i was pregnant, i could not fly towards the end of my due date because it was unsafe for sam in your unable to board a plane. and i was unable to actually have my vote represented here and my constituents represented. after giving birth, i was faced with an impossible decision. sam was four weeks old. and for all of the parents here, we know that when we have newborns, it is when they are the most vulnerable in their life. it is when they need 24, seven care, when taking them even to a grocery store is scary because you are worried about exposure to germs and them getting sick. let alone taking them to an airport on a plane and coming across a country to make sure that you are able to vote and represent your constituents. i was terrified that no matter what choice i made, that i would have deep regrets for the consequences. so sam and i made the trip out. and this is our third time now coming to the floor for this vote. i want to thank all the people who have stood by us. i want to thank representative luna for being such a champion on this issue. and while sam is the best baby, he is apologized for the noises here. but i want to thank representative luna for being such a champion on this issue. alongside the rest of my colleagues who have led this charge and supported us in our efforts to pass this resolution. when i hear from members about their stories, whether they are a mom or a dad doing this job, having a newborn who is in the nicu and having to make the choice whether or not to leave their child or come here to vote, it is unfathomable that in 2025, we have not modernized congress to address these very unique challenges that members face. these life events where our voices should still be heard, our constituents, they are still be represented. are you going to jump in here? one minute. one minute, the gentleman from colorado. you do not want men as recognized. and so we are asking you, first of all, thank you for signing their discharge petition. but we are asking you to continue to stand with us because no mom or dad should be in the position that i was in and so many parents have found themselves in. we, it is anti-women, it is anti-family, and we need to come together to make sure that we kill this rule and have the opportunity to pass this resolution to make sure that new parents have the ability to continue to represent their constituents and with that i yield back.