15 requests submitted by congresswoman hayes to the house committee on appropriations were included in the final fy2023 budget. canaan project name: affordable housing for falls village award amount : $750,000 request amount: $875,000 intended recipient: falls village housing trust full street address of the intended recipient: p.o. box 424, falls village, ct 06031 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: this project would be a valuable use of taxpayer funds because the need for affordable rental housing in falls village is dire. essential employers in the town report insufficient staffing due to lack of affordable rental housing. this includes area nursing homes, the hospital, regional public high and elementary schools, restaurants, and grocery stores. this funding would allow for the construction of a multi-family affordable housing development of 16 rental units consisting of one, two, and three-bedrooms to house low and moderate-income working families and seniors. cheshire project name: fire protection system for arts center award amount : $625,000 request amount: $625,000 intended recipient: ball & socket arts, inc. full street address of the intended recipient: 493 west main street, cheshire, ct 06410 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: this project would install the required fire protection system in the building for prospective tenants to portion out the main 43,000 square foot space. ball & socket arts was founded to restore the historic ball & socket manufacturing company site and transform it into a vibrant arts center and community gathering place. five buildings on a three-acre former industrial complex will house art galleries, live music venues, retail shops, casual and fine dining, and outdoor spaces. given its prominence in the streetscape, this project promises to help convert west main street into a walkable downtown, with easy access from the farmington valley linear trail. focusing on creative commerce alongside an arts presentation and education venue, the project will spur additional dining and retail business in the vicinity. danbury project name: parking structure for community health center award amount: $2,000,000 request amount: $2,000,000 intended recipient: connecticut institute of communities health centers full street address of the intended recipient: 11 boughton street, danbury ct 06810 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: this project would assist the construction of a much-needed garage for the health center in the busy downtown danbury area, making it easier for patients to access health center services. the parking structure will enable the development of a nearby low-income senior’s housing facility. project name: environmental impact statement for danbury rail award amount: $2,000,000 request amount: $2,000,000 intended recipient: danbury, city of full street address of the intended recipient: 155 deer hill avenue danbury, ct 06810 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: this project would be a valuable use of taxpayer funds because it will revitalize a currently abandoned interstate railway line known as the beacon line by restoring commuter services to satisfy an ever-expanding need. the plan calls for extending the current new york city metro north harlem line rail which now terminates in southeast, ny and providing a new connection to the beacon line and adding two stops in danbury, ct. the restoration of commuter rail service would extend the existing public transportation network and provide benefits to all communities along the corridor by connecting residents more easily to new york city. it is possible the restoration of service will reduce private vehicle volumes on interstate 84, interstate 684 , and local roadways along the interstate roadway corridors. lower vehicle counts could result in less vehicular congestion and emissions, and would have a lasting impact on the community. farmington project name: k-12 stem education for university of connecticut health center (uchc) award amount: $1,000,000 request amount: $1,000,000 intended recipient: university of connecticut health center (uchc) full street address of the intended recipient: 263 farmington avenue, farmington, ct 06030 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project would be a valuable use of taxpayer funds because with this support the connecticut convergence institute at uchc will develop year-round science, technology, engineering and math (stem) development programs for k-12 education in connecticut specifically in hartford and waterbury districts. the goals of the year-round stem development programs are: (1) build collaborative relationships between k–12 and higher education in stem; (2) providing opportunities for uconn stem faculty to offer up-to-date content knowledge and share information about resources in their respective fields; (3) provide opportunities for k–12 teachers to offer insight into current school practices; and (4) provide opportunities for k–12 students to learn more about higher education and, ultimately, have greater access to post-secondary options. litchfield project name: agricultural education and behavioral health services for youth award amount: $750,000 request amount: $1,000,000 intended recipient: connecticut junior republic (cjr) full street address of the intended recipient: 550 goshen road, p.o. box 161, litchfield, ct 06759 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: this project would support repairs, maintenance, and renovations to cjr's existing farm facilities to make this program expansion possible. these funds will also allow cjr to make its facilities and programs more relevant and available to students from other regional agriculture centers. the beneficiaries of these funds will include young people and families who are among the most vulnerable and at-risk in connecticut and who would benefit from the educational and therapeutic opportunities afforded by agricultural education. new britain project name: facility repairs and upgrades for klingberg family centers, inc. award amount: $1,000,000 request amount: $3,000,000 intended recipient: klingberg family centers, inc. full street address of the intended recipient: 370 linwood street, new britain, ct 06052 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project would be a valuable use of taxpayer funds because it would enable klingberg to better meet the needs of its students and the recipients of other services in the nearly 20 other programs based on its campus. their programs serve children and families from throughout the 5th congressional district. upgrades made possible by this funding would include hvac systems, roofing, stairwell safety screens, and handicap accessibility for two group homes. project name: literacy support services for new britain award amount: $150,000 request amount: $150,000 intended recipient: united way of central and northeastern connecticut full street address of the intended recipient: 30 laurel street, hartford, ct financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project would be a valuable use of taxpayer funds because it would provide under-resourced communities in new britain with additional literacy supports necessary to move the needle on school readiness and grade-level reading through the dolly parton’s imagination library (dpil) and united way readers programs. through the dolly parton’s imagination library program children from birth through age five are sent a free age-appropriate book by mail every month – creating a home library of 60 books for children enrolled at birth by the time they start kindergarten. united way readers is a supplemental, volunteer-based program designed to improve the reading proficiency of students grades k-3. the program works within the school system and is situated in under-resourced elementary schools, providing individualized attention to struggling readers. project name: childcare incubator project for ywca of new britain award amount: $50,000 request amount: $50,000 intended recipient: ywca of new britain full street address of the intended recipient: 19 franklin square, new britain, ct 06051 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: this project would be a valuable use of taxpayer funds because it would support the development of children, particularly under age 3, through the creation of a family childcare business incubator at the housing authority facility. the incubator would train individuals to open and operate their own family childcare business; support the establishment of that business for a period of 2-5 years in the shared site; and prepare them to successfully move to an independent location once their tenure in the incubator is complete. new fairfield project name: emergency communication system upgrades for new fairfield police department award amount: $2,100,000 request amount: $2,100,000 intended recipient: new fairfield police department, town of full street address of the intended recipient: 4 brush hill road, new fairfield, ct 06812 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: this project would be a valuable use of taxpayer funds because communications systems are the backbone of any safety program and combined with new fairfield’s location and proximity to candlewood lake and the new york border, interoperability between localities is a critical component of emergency preparedness. in new fairfield’s vicinity lie significant infrastructure critical to the state, including candlewood lake, a 5,420 manmade lake that provides hydroelectric storage for rocky river power plant (firstlight power company). small towns like new fairfield and its immediate neighbors depend on shared resources and mutual aid during emergencies, and this upgrade will allow for interoperable communications not only with other towns but with state agencies. this will be an overall benefit to this more rural area of the state that lacks some of the more robust infrastructure seen in our larger communities. waterbury project name: pool replacement & renovation of pool house for fulton park award amount: $4,000,000 request amount: $4,000,000 intended recipient: waterbury, city of full street address of the intended recipient: 438 cooke street, waterbury, ct 06710 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: this project would be a valuable use of taxpayer funds because it would provide critically needed funding towards the demolition of an existing public, outdoor pool at fulton park that is currently in poor condition and provide funding towards its replacement. additionally, funding would be allocated towards the rehabilitation of the adjacent pool house, rehabilitating the outside of the existing structure to ensure structural soundness and completely revitalizing the inside of the structure. in order to ensure the pool and pool house remain available for public use, especially for low income communities, the pool must be replaced. project name: chromebooks for waterbury public schools award amount: $2,265,000 request amount: $2,265,000 intended recipient: waterbury public schools full street address of the intended recipient: 236 grand street, waterbury, ct 06702 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project would be a valuable use of taxpayer funds because it would allow for the district to maintain a learning environment for students that includes access to essential school network and internet based educational curriculum and resource materials. this educational technology for students will foster accelerated learning, engage students, and help to prepare students with the 21st century skills they need to succeed in school and beyond. project name: community support services for waterbury pal award amount : $172,000 request amount: $171,200 intended recipient: waterbury police activity league (pal) full street address of the intended recipient: 64 division street, waterbury, ct, 06704 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: this project would be a valuable use of taxpayer funds because it would enable the waterbury pal to give back to the community. waterbury pal allows families to enroll their children in sports and activities for $30 a year, or at no cost if they are experiencing severe financial hardship. reinforcing the resources of waterbury pal will keep children safe and build their individual skills, while supporting their families. watertown project name: communications upgrades for watertown police department award amount: $3,375,000 request amount: $3,375,000 intended recipient: watertown police department, town of full street address of the intended recipient: 195 french street, watertown, ct 06795 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: this project would be a valuable use of taxpayer funds because it will have a direct effect on the communications and response to routine as well as emergency calls for service in watertown. by having an improved and redundant communication system we are ensuring improved officer and public safety. this is considered critical infrastructure and crucial to the safe and efficient operations of the department. project name: main street safety audit for watertown award amount: $3,000,000 request amount: $3,000,000 intended recipient: watertown, town of full street address of the intended recipient: 61 echo lake road, watertown, ct 06795 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: this project would be a valuable use of taxpayer funds because it will be used to create additional sidewalks, raised bump outs, streetscapes, lighting, and street plantings. this will increase pedestrian and vehicular safety, while promoting economic development and stimulating many small businesses.