avon project name: destination for astrophysics & data science education request amount: $1,700,000 intended recipient: talcott mountain science center for student involvement, inc. full street address of the intended recipient: 324 montevideo road, avon, ct 06001 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project is an appropriate use of taxpayer funds because it would help talcott mountain science center serve as a destination for k-12 education in astrophysics and data science. new britain project name: central connecticut workforce and innovation hub request amount: $5,057,498 intended recipient: central connecticut state university full street address of the intended recipient: 1615 stanley street, new britain, ct 06050 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project is an appropriate use of taxpayer funds because the heart of the hub will be the central applied learning and industry corridor (calic), a cutting-edge facility aimed at assisting the manufacturing, healthcare, financial and insurance services industry sectors with productivity increases, product/service development, and the creation of new enterprises. the hub will advance equity, postsecondary achievement, and economic prosperity in the central region. in addition, the hub will serve historically underserved and marginalized communities in central connecticut by connecting students, industry, and community partners. new fairfield project name: underground oil tank removal and replacement request amount: $185,000 intended recipient: new fairfield board of education full street address of the intended recipient: 3 brush hill road, new fairfield, ct 06812 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project is an appropriate use of taxpayer funds because underground oil tanks have a high risk of leaking. these leaks can affect the soil around the area, which can contaminate groundwater in the area or cause the soil to shift, leading to cracks in the foundation and walls that compromise the safety of the building and the occupants inside. newtown project name: westcog for regional firearm training facility equipment and technology request amount: $929,194 intended recipient: western connecticut council of governments (westcog) full street address of the intended recipient: 1 riverside road, sandy hook, ct 06482 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project is an appropriate use of taxpayer funds because it would outfit a regional 10-lane, 50-yard, rifle ready regional firearm training facility situated at the newtown police department. the equipment and technology for the regional training facility would provide adaptive, sustainable, quality training for up to 2,400 officers to respond rapidly and effectively to emergency response situations such as active shooter incidents. norfolk project name: norfolk firehouse project request amount: $500,000 intended recipient: town of norfolk, connecticut full street address of the intended recipient: 19 maple ave, norfolk, ct 06058 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project is an appropriate use of taxpayer funds because the current facility is too small and lacks many of the health and safety that are common in new firehouses. the distance between the equipment is too small, making it dangerous for volunteers when there is a fire call and trucks are exiting the building. the facility also lacks an adequate ventilation system to extract the exhaust gases from the trucks, forcing norfolk firehouse volunteers to hold general meetings or training sessions outside. it was difficult for first responders to respond during emergencies such as the 8200-gallon gas spill in november '22 and flooding in july of '23 because of the current facility. the grant will help cover the costs of constructing a new facility. thomaston project name: seth thomas park revitalization request amount: $2,000,000 intended recipient: town of thomaston, connecticut full street address of the intended recipient: 158 main street, thomaston, ct 06787 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project is an appropriate use of taxpayer funds because seth thomas park is widely used by community members for peaceful enjoyment as well as for community events. the funding would be used to make significant improvements to the park, provide for better lighting, create improved walkability and provide for ada accessibility. seth thomas park is centrally located in the town continuous and contiguous to the downtown development district and would also supplement the main street initiative. torrington project name: toro field siphon abandonment and sewer replacement technology request amount: $2,900,000 intended recipient: city of torrington, connecticut full street address of the intended recipient: 140 main street, torrington, ct 06790 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project is an appropriate use of taxpayer funds because replacement of the toro field siphon will ensure continued, uninterrupted access to the wpca’s sanitary sewer service and will benefit the sewered population of approximately 35,500 in torrington, harwinton, and litchfield. waterbury project name: waterbury police activity league community engagement efforts request amount: $165,000 intended recipient: police activity league of waterbury full street address of the intended recipient: 64 division street, waterbury, ct 06704 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project is an appropriate use of taxpayer funds because it would have a meaningful impact on the police activity league’s commitment to community engagement. the funding would be allocated across various projects to support the commitment of enhancing the vibrancy of the greater waterbury area through multifaceted community engagement efforts. this includes providing tang soo do martial arts classes, promoting discipline and physical fitness; covering the cost of referees for sports leagues, ensuring fair play and structured competition; supplying sports uniforms, enhancing team identity and pride among participants. project name: freight street redevelopment project request amount: $4,000,000 intended recipient: city of waterbury, ct full street address of the intended recipient: 235 grand street, waterbury, ct 06702 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project is an appropriate use of taxpayer funds because it will result in positive social and economic outcomes on the physical environment, employment opportunities, and changes to socioeconomic status of individuals who belong to underserved and marginalized communities. any funding secured toward this project will leverage the ~$30 million in total investments toward the freight street district's redevelopment. project name: hamilton park phase ii - streetscape improvements request amount: $4,500,000 intended recipient: city of waterbury, ct full street address of the intended recipient: 235 grand street, waterbury, ct 06702 financial disclosure letter explanation of the request: the project is an appropriate use of taxpayer funds because this project has a strong emphasis on accessibility; this funding will bolster alternative transportation options and streetscape improvements to residents’ safety and access to hamilton park. hamilton park is located within waterbury’s east end neighborhood in census tract 3513, and parallels tract 3512. tract 3513 has a population of 5,542 with 55% identify in the bipoc community. this is a low-income neighborhood, with median household income nearly twice as low as state’s average. this neighborhood surpasses thresholds for socioeconomic and health burdens. this project is a priority in order to ensure environmental justice, safety, and access to recreational opportunities. the city is taking bold steps toward ensuring park users accessibility and safety, simultaneously mitigating all traffic congestion and accidents. the committee on appropriations is soliciting community project funding requests for fiscal year 2025. community project funding allows members of congress to use knowledge of their districts and stakeholder input to make the case for directing taxpayer dollars to specific projects at home. this is a significant tool to address pressing local needs in member districts and creates a pathway to targeted funding. this is also an excellent opportunity to help direct critical federal resources back to the fifth district for important local initiatives. community projects are funded on a limited basis with each member being limited to no more than 15 requests. projects will be selected by my office based on financial need for the initiative, strength and completion of application, level of improvement the project would contribute to the local community, and community support. while members of congress may make up to 15 requests, the committee is not obligated to accept or fulfill any minimum number of requests per member. submitting a request for a community project on behalf of your community or organization does not ensure the request will be granted. my office will make every effort to support selected projects and advocate for inclusion in the final appropriations budget. under the guidance issued by the committee, project recipients must be government or nonprofit organizations to be considered eligible. submissions from for-profit organizations will not be considered. community engagement and support are crucial in determining which projects should be awarded federal funding. evidence of community support, that serves as compelling factors in the decision to submit project requests will be required as part of submission. this may include letters of support from municipal leaders, demonstrated support from state agencies or constituent groups, or articles in local papers regarding the importance of the requested project. additionally, for some accounts there may be matching funding requirements. non-profit organizations are no longer eligible for community project funding in the department of housing and urban development (hud) economic development initiative (edi) account. complete, thorough applications with all supporting documentation must be submitted by my office to the respective subcommittees by 6:00pm on friday, may 3, 2024. therefore, your application with all supporting documentation must be received by my office for review no later than 6:00pm on wednesday, may 1, 2024, to ensure we can communicate the need for additional or clarifying materials. incomplete applications will not be considered. requests may be submitted to our office using the links highlighted below. additional information or supporting evidence of community support for submissions should be sent by email to: . it is recommended that you contact my office with questions about the submission timeline, changes in project eligibility, or any other questions related to the application process before beginning this process. my office can be reached at (860) 223-8412 and questions can be directed to jennine lupo or alex ginis. i look forward to working with you to meet the needs of our communities. as more information is made available, we will continue to keep you updated. please know that, even if your request is unsuccessful, i am committed to working to help advance local community initiatives in any way i can. if you have any follow-up questions, please contact my district director, jennine lupo or my legislative director, miranda ganter . congresswoman hayes community project funding request links agriculture, rural development, food and drug administration, and related agencies commerce, justice, science, and related agencies energy and water development and related agencies interior, environment, and related agencies military construction, veteran affairs, and related agencies homeland security appropriations community project funding request links federal emergency management agency - pre-disaster mitigation grants federal emergency management agency - emergency operations center grants transportation, housing and urban development, and related agencies department of housing and urban development – economic development initiatives department of transportation – airport improvement program department of transportation – highway infrastructure projects department of transportation – transit infrastructure projects department of transportation – consolidated rail infrastructure and safety improvements department of transportation – port infrastructure development program