[congressional record volume 170, number 28 (tuesday, february 13, 2024)] [house] [pages h551-h554] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] uyghur policy act of 2023 mrs. kim of california. madam speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 2766) to support the human rights of uyghurs and members of other minority groups residing primarily in the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region and safeguard their distinct identity, and for other purposes, as amended. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 2766 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``uyghur policy act of 2023''. sec. 2. findings. congress finds the following: (1) the people's republic of china (prc) continues to repress the distinct islamic, turkic identity of uyghurs and members of other ethnic and religious minority groups in the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region (xuar) in northwestern china and other areas of their habitual residence. (2) uyghurs, and other predominantly muslim ethnic minorities historically making up the majority of the xuar population, have maintained throughout their history a distinct religious and cultural identity. (3) human rights, including freedom of religion or belief, and respect for the uyghurs' unique muslim identity are legitimate interests of the international community. (4) the people's republic of china has ratified the international covenant on economic, social, and cultural rights and has also signed the international covenant on civil and political rights. (5) an official campaign to encourage han chinese migration into the xuar has placed immense pressure on those who seek to preserve the ethnic, cultural, religious, and linguistic traditions of the uyghurs and other ethnic and religious minority groups. (6) prc authorities have supported an influx of han chinese economic immigrants into the xuar, implemented discrimination against uyghurs and other minorities in hiring practices, and provided unequal access to healthcare services. (7) the authorities of the people's republic of china have manipulated the strategic objectives of the international war on terror to mask their increasing cultural and religious oppression of the muslim population residing in the xuar. (8) following unrest in the region, in 2014, chinese authorities launched their ``strike hard against violent extremism'' campaign, in which dubious allegations of widespread extremist activity were used as justification for gross human rights violations committed [[page h552]] against uyghurs and members of other minority communities in the xuar. (9) prc authorities have made use of the legal system as a tool of repression, including for the imposition of arbitrary detentions and for torture against members of the uyghur community and other minority populations. (10) uyghurs and kazakhs who have secured citizenship or permanent residency outside of the prc have attested to repeated threats, harassment, and surveillance by prc officials. (11) reporting from international news organizations has found that over the past decade, family members of uyghurs and other minority groups living outside of the prc have gone missing or been detained to force uyghur expatriates to return to the prc or silence their dissent. (12) credible evidence from human rights organizations, think tanks, and journalists confirms that more than 1,000,000 uyghurs and members of other muslim ethnic minority groups have been imprisoned in ``political reeducation'' centers. (13) independent accounts from former detainees of ``political reeducation'' centers describe inhumane conditions and treatment including forced political indoctrination, torture, beatings, rape, forced sterilization, and food deprivation. (14) former detainees of prc so-called ``political reeducation'' centers also confirmed that they were told by guards the only way to secure release was to demonstrate sufficient political loyalty to the prc government and the chinese communist party. (15) popular discourse surrounding the ongoing atrocities in the xuar and advocacy efforts to assist uyghurs remains muted in much of the world, including in most muslim majority nations. (16) both secretary of state antony blinken and former secretary of state michael pompeo have stated that the prc government has committed genocide and crimes against humanity against uyghurs and other ethnic and religious minorities in the xuar. (17) government bodies of multiple nations have also declared that prc government atrocities against such populations in the xuar constitute genocide, including the parliaments of the united kingdom, belgium, czechia, lithuania, the netherlands, and canada. sec. 3. sense of congress. it is the sense of congress that-- (1) the government of the people's republic of china should immediately open the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region (xuar) to regular, transparent, and unmanipulated visits by members of the press, international organizations including the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights, academic and human rights research institutions, as well as foreign delegations including from the united states congress; (2) government of the people's republic of china should recognize, and take tangible steps to protect and preserve, the distinct ethnic, cultural, religious, and linguistic identity of uyghurs and members of other ethnic and religious minority groups in the xuar; (3) the government of the people's republic of china should cease all government-sponsored crackdowns, imprisonments, and detentions of people throughout the xuar aimed at repressing their ethnic, cultural, political, or religious identities; (4) it is commendable for countries to provide shelter and hospitality to uyghurs and other minority group members in exile, as turkey, albania, and germany have done; (5) urges all countries, especially fellow democracies and those with sizeable muslim populations, to condemn and address the plight of uyghurs and other minority communities in the xuar; (6) the government of the prc should immediately and unconditionally release all prisoners detained for their ethnic, cultural, religious, and linguistic identities, or for expressing their political or religious beliefs in the xuar, including-- (a) ekper asat, who participated in the department of state's international visitors leadership program in 2016, was incarcerated after returning to the xuar, and is now serving a 15 year prison sentence on charges of ``inciting ethnic hatred and ethnic discrimination''; (b) dr. gulshan abbas, a retired medical doctor and uyghur, who was wrongfully detained in the xuar on september 11, 2018, and unjustly sentenced to 20 years in prison in retaliation for her sister's advocacy for uyghur human rights issues; and (c) kamile wayit, a university student and uyghur, who was wrongfully detained on december 12, 2022, after returning to the xuar while on break from studying during the winter holiday; (7) the government of the prc should facilitate access for international humanitarian organizations, including the international federation of red cross and red crescent societies, to the ``political reeducation'' centers in the xuar to ensure prisoners are not being mistreated and are receiving necessary medical care; and (8) the united states agency for global media should continue to facilitate the unhindered dissemination of information to the international community on issues regarding the human rights and religious freedom of uyghurs and members of other minority groups in the xuar. sec. 4. united states special coordinator for uyghur issues. (a) in general.--there is authorized to be within the department of state a united states special coordinator for uyghur issues (in this section referred to as the ``special coordinator''), to be designated by the secretary of state in accordance with subsection (b). (b) consultation.--the secretary of state shall consult with the chairs and ranking members of the committee on foreign relations of the senate and the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives prior to the designation of the special coordinator. (c) central objective.--the special coordinator should seek to promote the protection and preservation of the distinct ethnic, cultural, religious, and linguistic identities of the uyghurs and other ethnic and religious minority groups in the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region (in this act referred to as the ``xuar''). (d) duties and responsibilities.--the special coordinator should, as appropriate-- (1) coordinate united state government policies, programs, and projects concerning the uyghurs and members of other ethnic and religious minority groups in the xuar; (2) vigorously promote the policy of seeking to protect the distinct ethnic, religious, cultural, and linguistic identity of the uyghurs and other minority groups and seek improved protection of human rights in the xuar; (3) maintain close contact with uyghur religious, cultural, and political leaders, including seeking regular travel to the xuar and to uyghur populations in central asia, turkey, albania, germany, and other parts of europe; (4) lead coordination efforts for the release of political prisoners in the xuar who are being detained for exercising their human rights; (5) consult with the united states congress on policies relevant to the xuar and the uyghurs; (6) coordinate with relevant federal agencies to administer aid to uyghur rights advocates; and (7) make efforts to establish contacts with foreign ministries of other countries, especially in europe, central asia, and members of the organisation of islamic cooperation, to pursue a policy of promoting greater respect for human rights and religious freedom for uyghurs and other ethnic and religious minority groups from the xuar. (e) support.--the secretary of state shall ensure the special coordinator has adequate resources, staff, and administrative support to carry out this section. (f) deadline.--if the secretary of state has not designated the special coordinator by the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary shall submit to the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives and the committee on foreign relations of the senate a report detailing the reasons for the delay. (g) termination.--this section shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date of the designation of the special coordinator. sec. 5. funding for human rights advocates to conduct public diplomacy in the islamic world on the uyghur situation. of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for the u.s. speaker program of the bureau of educational and cultural affairs of the department of state, $250,000 for each of fiscal years 2024, 2025, and 2026 is authorized to be made available to support human rights advocates working on behalf of the uyghurs and members of other ethnic and religious minority groups from the xuar that are persecuted in the prc, whose names may be provided by the department of state and the united states special coordinator for uyghur issues in consultation with representatives of the global uyghur community, to speak at global public diplomacy forums, particularly those in which organisation of islamic cooperation countries and other muslim-majority countries are present, on issues regarding the human rights and religious freedom of uyghurs and members of other ethnic and religious minority groups persecuted in the prc. sec. 6. access to detention facilities and prisons and the release of prisoners. (a) strategy on political reeducation and detention facilities.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of state should, in consultation with the heads of other relevant federal departments and agencies, develop a strategy to cooperate with like-minded partners to pressure the people's republic of china to-- (1) close all detention facilities and ``political reeducation'' camps housing uyghurs and members of other ethnic minority groups in the xuar; (2) allow unhindered access to detention facilities and ``political reeducation'' camps in the xuar by independent media, researchers, international organizations and the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights for a comprehensive assessment of the human rights situation; and (3) protect human rights and preserve the distinct religious and cultural identity of the uyghurs and the other religious and ethnic minority communities in the xuar. (b) report on strategy and implementation.--not later than 1 year after the date of [[page h553]] the enactment of this act, the secretary of state shall submit to the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives and the committee on foreign relations of the senate a report that includes-- (1) the strategy developed pursuant to subsection (a); and (2) all the steps taken pursuant to the objectives described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of such subsection. sec. 7. requirement for uyghur language training. (a) uyghur language training and staffing.--the secretary of state shall take such steps as may be necessary to ensure that-- (1) uyghur language training is available to foreign service officers as appropriate; and (2) every effort is made to ensure that at least one uyghur-speaking member of the foreign service (as such term is defined by section 103 of the foreign service act of 1980 (22 u.s.c. 3903)) is assigned to each united states diplomatic or consular post in china. (b) report.--no later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this act, and annually thereafter for 2 years, the foreign service institute shall submit to the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives and the committee on foreign relations of the senate a report that outlines all the steps taken to implement subsection (a). sec. 8. uyghur considerations at the united nations. the president should direct the united states permanent representative to the united nations to use the voice, vote, and influence of the united states to-- (1) oppose any efforts to prevent consideration of the gross violation of internationally recognized human rights in the xuar in any body of the united nations; (2) oppose any efforts to prevent the participation of any uyghur human rights advocates in nongovernmental fora hosted by or otherwise organized under the auspices of any body of the united nations; and (3) support the appointment of a special rapporteur or working group for the xuar for the purposes of monitoring human rights violations and abuses in the xuar, and for making reports available to the high commissioner for refugees, the high commissioner for human rights, the human rights commission, the general assembly, and other united nations bodies. sec. 9. no additional funds authorized. no additional funds are authorized to carry out the requirements of this act. such requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentlewoman from california (mrs. kim) and the gentlewoman from north carolina (ms. manning) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from california. general leave mrs. kim of california. madam speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on this measure. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentlewoman from california? there was no objection. mrs. kim of california. madam speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. madam speaker, i rise in strong support of my legislation, h.r. 2766, the uyghur policy act of 2023. the uyghur policy act of 2023 comes at a critical time. chairman xi is trying to rebrand xinjiang as a business and tourist destination and seeks to erase uyghurs from the international community's memory. the chinese communist party continues to deny carrying out genocide against the uyghurs and other ethnic minorities, and we have verified reports of forced sterilization, forced labor, brainwashing, and gang rape in the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region. despite the ccp being exposed for these crimes, chairman xi is doubling down. in a visit to the region recently, he called for stricter regulations on the practice of religion and protection of ``hard-won stability.'' we are running out of time to act. the uyghur policy act of 2023 will help us lead from a position of strength and will address several shortcomings in our existing approach in responding to these human rights abuses. it authorizes the state department to appoint a special coordinator for uyghur issues, which will consolidate the state department's diplomatic strategy to ensure that department-wide resources are better coordinated to respond to the uyghur genocide. the united states must show, through words and through actions, that we will have uyghurs' backs in their fight against the ccp's tyranny. h.r. 2766 mandates uyghur language instruction at the foreign service institute and requires the state department to station a uyghur-fluent officer at mission china locations. the bill also authorizes support for uyghur human rights activists and directs the u.s. agency for global media to disseminate news and information regarding the uyghur genocide. we must act now to leverage u.s. soft power, garner international support for uyghurs and other ethnic minorities in xinjiang and equip the state department with the tools it needs to better respond to xi jinping's genocidal campaign. i thank ranking member ami bera of the subcommittee on indo-pacific for leading this legislation with me and the 106 bipartisan cosponsors who helped me get this legislation to the house floor. madam speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this legislation, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. manning. madam speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. madam speaker, i rise in strong support of h.r. 2766, the uyghur policy act of 2023, as amended. madam speaker, i thank my good friends, representatives young kim and ami bera, the chair and ranking member of the subcommittee on indo- pacific, for introducing this important bill, of which i am a proud cosponsor. over the last several years, we have heard horrific accounts of the genocide taking place in xinjiang against uyghurs and other ethnic minorities. beijing has tried to hide its atrocities and prevent all of us from discovering what is really happening in xinjiang. despite beijing's efforts, we cannot ignore what is happening in xinjiang. a 2022 report by the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights concluded that the extent of arbitrary and discriminatory detention of members of the uyghur and predominantly muslim groups . . . may constitute international crimes, in particular, crimes against humanity,'' and that ``serious human rights violations have been committed'' in xinjiang. last congress, the house foreign affairs committee held a hearing to take heartbreaking testimony about the crimes being committed against the uyghur people in xinjiang. the committee passed a bipartisan resolution led by chairman mccaul and ranking member meeks condemning the prc's genocide in xinjiang, as well as passed the uyghur forced labor prevention act, which president biden signed into law. however, as long as beijing's genocide continues, congress must continue to act. h.r. 2766 calls for the creation of a special coordinator for uyghur issues to protect the distinct identities of uyghurs and other minority groups in xinjiang. it also provides the state department and our diplomats with tools to enhance our diplomatic efforts and programs in support of those suffering under the prc's repression. madam speaker, as members of congress, we have a responsibility to speak out against clear violations of fundamental human rights around the world. this measure is a clear statement that the united states congress stands in support of uyghurs and other religious and ethnic minority communities in xinjiang that are suffering under beijing's authoritarian and inhumane rule. h.r. 2766 will ensure that the united states plays a leadership role in holding the prc accountable and in providing political and diplomatic support for uyghurs around the world. madam speaker, i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting h.r. 2766, and i yield back the balance of my time. mrs. kim of california. madam speaker, i thank representative ami bera for co-leading this legislation with me. i thank chairman mccaul, ranking member meeks, and representative kathy manning for their support and the many human rights organizations who helped build support for this bill. madam speaker, i urge its passage, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. smith of new jersey. madam speaker, i would like to express my strong support for the uyghur policy act, of which i am a proud cosponsor. but more than expressing strong support for this necessary piece of legislation, all of us [[page h554]] must continue to show strong support for the oppressed people of the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region and beyond. this bill supplements both the uyghur human rights policy act, passed in the last congress, and the uyghur forced labor prevention act, for which i was the lead republican cosponsor. it is important that we call what the government of the people's republic of china is doing to the uyghurs by what it is--genocide. the bill does just that. the bill also would create a special coordinator for uyghur issues at the state department--something that i have long advocated for and tried to pass, for a special envoy really. such a focus is particularly necessary, given the amount of repression directed by the chinese communist party at the uyghurs and other predominantly muslim central asian people, including the kazakhs and kyrgyz. make no mistake, this is xi jinping's genocide; he is directly responsible for this. we know that there are recordings of him saying, ``show no mercy,'' as people are being dragged into concentration camps. forced abortion, forced sterilization, and a whole host of human rights abuses are being committed right up to this very moment. we must not allow xi jinping to whitewash his crimes. we cannot allow u.s. businesses and business leaders to subsidize his genocide. this bill keeps the spotlight on one of this century's greatest crimes and i urge my colleagues to give it their strongest support. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentlewoman from california (mrs. kim) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 2766, as amended. the question was taken. the speaker pro tempore. in the opinion of the chair, two-thirds being in the affirmative, the ayes have it. mrs. kim of california. madam speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this motion will be postponed. ____________________