[congressional record volume 170, number 18 (wednesday, january 31, 2024)] [house] [page h322] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] {time} 1030 holding delta executives accountable the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from michigan (ms. tlaib) for 5 minutes. ms. tlaib. mr. speaker, delta workers deserve the right to organize without intimidation from delta executives. we know that when workers come together in solidarity, they create a strong, collective voice for safer work environments. we must empower all the workers to speak out against injustice in their workplace, not silence them. recently, the labor caucus met with delta flight attendants that are organizing with delta afa as well as delta workers from teamsters, machinists unions, to hear about their unionizing efforts. i heard many of their stories, mr. speaker, about being targeted for union organizing efforts after decades of loyalty to the company. this is unacceptable, and frankly, shameful. it is clear that delta executives are engaging in bullying, union busting, retaliation, and even suspension of their employees for their union campaigns. as a proud daughter of the uaw, i know the power of a union, and i will continue to fight for every worker to have the right to organize unions and collectively bargain for better working conditions and higher and fair pay without fear of being targeted or fired. mr. speaker, i call on my colleagues to stand with the workers and hold delta executives accountable for their antiunion tactics. honoring the life of faye awada ms. tlaib. mr. speaker, i knew the extraordinary woman named faye awada. she was a remarkable woman who left a legacy that has deeply impacted the community. faye awada's work was rooted in compassion and resilience, and she dedicated her life to helping others. born in lebanon, faye was the eldest of 13. she immigrated to the united states in 1960. her early struggles as a young mother fueled her determination to uplift the needs of our community. she devoted her life and assisted over 500,000 families that we know of with translation and other services. faye was a trailblazer, emerging as one of michigan's first female entrepreneurs. her impact earned her the community spotlight award for unwavering dedication. mr. speaker, let us please honor her legacy and achievements as we continue the work that she began. i am sending love and strength to faye awada's family. ``may she rest in power,'' ``allah yerhama.'' violation of the leahy laws and conventional arms transfer policy ms. tlaib. mr. speaker, on january 5, national security council spokesperson john kirby revealed that the biden administration has not bothered to conduct a formal review of the israeli government's compliance with international law since the genocide in gaza began. then on january 18, we learned that the state department allegedly uses special mechanisms to review and shield the government of israel from consequences under u.s. law when reviewing violations of human rights committed by the government. the level of support for netanyahu's war crimes by the biden administration and the majority of this body is beyond belief, especially when the majority of the american people want the war crimes to end. i am proud to have led a letter with colleagues in requesting that the president and the nonpartisan group called the government accountability office take the long overdue step of reviewing whether the u.s. security aid to israel is violating leahy laws and the president's own conventional arms transfer policy. we should be consistent, but also relentless in assuring that the american weapons are not used to commit war crimes anywhere in the world. that is the bare minimum. president biden and the u.s. government have the power to make sure that we are holding every government accountable that we are sending weapons to. we must facilitate a lasting cease-fire now to ensure the safety of everyone that lives there. ____________________