all right, got a couple good mornings out there. so i will not even press you to repeat this morning because it is 7.45 and so i know we are still getting our engines going, but welcome to another great day. want to share that yesterday, early in the day, we were able to start taking a look at the feedback coming from our sessions here at this year's sas institute. and i have got to tell you the feedback to this point in time has been exceptionally positive. and that is very helpful to us. and then also feedback around sessions, the value that you have taken away, as well as things that we can continue to do better. so please make sure that you keep that feedback coming. but again, it appears from all levels that yesterday was successful and hopefully valuable day for all of you that are here. i mean, you are taking time to be away from your districts. you are taking time to be away from your schools. you are taking time to be away from your classrooms. and it is critically important to us that that time yield a significant return on investment and that you walk away from here feeling energized and feeling like the time was productive for you. so please make the most of it and please continue to give us feedback to ensure that we are doing a successful job of setting up these sessions. so with that being said, today we have the pleasure of kicking off with some very inspiring folks. and i am going to ask marie cooper to come forward. she was our 2015 pennsylvania teacher of the year. and then she is going to introduce to us our 2016 national teacher of the year. so marie, let us give her a warm round of applause as she comes up. thank you. i am a teacher. i have had bronchitis for a month for my darling students and so i hope you will endure my voice. i am privileged to welcome all of you to this morning's session and to introduce the national teacher of the year for 2016 and my personal friend, johanna hayes. johanna's route to teaching began as a student. the first in her family to graduate from college, she was inspired by her teachers who urged her to dream bigger and who believed that she was college material despite a challenging upbringing. a veteran history teacher at john f. kennedy high school in waterbury, connecticut, johanna also sees herself as an advisor, counselor, confident and most importantly protector. she endeavors to fill the role her own teachers had in her life, guiding students to be their best selves and encouraging them to take ownership of their communities. i have been fortunate enough to witness johanna's magic in action. i will never forget our afternoon at the white house. as president obama described johanna's work and her passion about teaching, she became more and more excited. she was practically dancing on stage, actually she literally was dancing, prompting the president to remark, this is what makes a great teacher. you cannot be great if you are not enthusiastic. you have got to love what you do and she loves what she does. but as the world watched johanna, i was able from my vantage point to watch her favorite student, her daughter. i saw her daughter's face change as she recognized her mother's excitement. if her mother could be honored by the president of the united states, one day she too might have the honor. i watched her see the dreams really come true. this is johanna's gift. she inspires all of us, teachers, administrators and policymakers to do more, to be more and to dream more so that our students have the opportunities that they dream of. so i am pleased to introduce to you my friend your inspiration for this morning and the 2016 national teacher of the year, johanna is. good morning. thank you so much for having me. marri is only telling part of the story what she fails to mention is that when we visited the biden residents, they had a string quartet that was playing and she grabbed a violin and led the quartet at joe biden's residence. yes, without any practice and we saw our music teacher in action. i, first of all, it is really early in the morning. i am still a little jet lag but i am so happy to be here and i thought that this morning, i thought that i would be just amongst the teachers who were announced. so there was a little bit of a change. so i just want to make sure i take a moment just to acknowledge all of your teacher of the year and teacher of the year finalists and just all of the teachers who work so hard every day. but this honor has shown me is that there are so many like-minded educators just like me. you know, when you are in the classroom, sometimes you get overwhelmed and frustrated and you think it is just me. but through this year, i have had the opportunity to meet so many tremendous educators who are just as passionate and working just as hard and i am just so humbled to be a part of that group. i do not know where mike is but congratulations. um, good luck with this. i do not want to seem ungrateful. i do not want to seem. but, geez, i had no idea that this is what this year would look like. just congratulations. thank you for everything that you do and to all the teachers in the room. you just represent all that is good in this profession. and i prepared what i would say today. you know, i thought long and hard about what do you say to a room full of educators and friends that come together to celebrate teachers and people who just represent all of the hard work that teachers do. and you know, there is so much that i could talk about and it is a little bit overwhelming when you hear yourself announce this the national teacher of the year because there is this implication that you can speak to anything. you know, i have been invited to talk about children's literacy or arts and education and i say i am just a social studies teacher. so yeah, just a social studies teacher and it is interesting because every time i say that someone says, well, you are not just a teacher and the thing is you do not understand that is all i ever want it to be. that is enough for me. something is some people choose teaching and for others teachers teaching chooses them. i do not ever remember a time where i did not want to be a teacher. you know, people have asked me throughout this process, who is the one person that inspired you or when is the one point where you knew you wanted to be a teacher and there is no one person or one point. i always knew i wanted to be a teacher. you know, i remember myself lining up dolls and teaching them and playing with them over and over and my friend said it was because i was bossy but i was like, no, i really want to be a teacher. so i do not remember. there is no line of debarcation for me. so when i say that, i am just a teacher. i say it with such pride and enthusiasm because that is all i ever wanted to be. so you can imagine how me, just a teacher, felt when i got the call that i would be the national teacher of the year. something about that title is so daunting because just so that we are clear, i know that i am not the best teacher in america. i am not even the best teacher in my school and i would be hard pressed to be the best teacher even in the hallway where i teach. so i was not sure i liked the idea of this, the impression that this is a competition and one person is selected. but so i went in very apprehensive. but at our first convening, i met 57 of the most amazing educators that i have ever encountered. people who had ideas and energy and enthusiasm and excitement and knew what to do with it. and i just watched and i learned from them. and i went back to my room and i prayed. and i said, lord, what will you have me do with this? and the answer that came to me was you have to use your voice to share your gift. that is the only one i know is my gift. so i thought about the things that were important to me and the things that i wanted to share with educators, with families, with friends, with all stakeholders about education because my perspective is only my perspective. and in that, i recognize that there is a critical need for everyone else to join in this conversation. i think as educators, we have gotten so used to the idea of not being celebrated or of not being a part of the discussion that we close our doors and we teach. and as long as our students are productive, we really do not feel like there is a place for us in this conversation. i have gone into rooms where i am so intimidated because i am meeting with the heads of major corporations or ministers of education or people who are really at a level where they can be impactful in this profession. and i realize that i have the most experience in the room. as a teacher, i never felt the need to become a part of that conversation. and now, i realize that there is a need for all of us to be a part of that conversation. there is a place for all of us to share our input. there are three things that were very important to me as a classroom teacher. and i realize that as i began to work on these things, the influence started to bubble outside of my classroom. i started to affect people in my community. i started to affect administrators in my building. and i realized that this is my message. and now i have a platform to share this message. so i just want to talk to you a little bit this morning about three things that are very important to me. first of all, every teacher of the year talks about elevating the profession. how do we make teaching more attractive? for me, this was so much more important. and i do not know why i made it so personal, but like you heard mary say, i was the first in my family to go to college. i know i hear people say that a lot, but it was different for me. there was no discussion of college in my household. i came from a community where school was not seen as a way to be successful. it took too long. it cost too much money. it was way too complicated. but i knew that that is what i wanted to do. so everything i learned about school, i learned at school. so it pains me when i hear people say that is the parent's responsibility or let the parents take control of these decisions. because in the back of my mind, i know that not everybody has that kind of a parent. so if teachers decide that our role ends at the classroom and we do not have a greater responsibility to our students, then people like me, will never survive. i hear people say that all these different ideas of choice and that the parents should get involved and step up and take a role. i was raised by my grandmother who was a wonderful provider. but she did not have the ability or the capacity to advocate on my behalf. so i relied on my teachers to help me fill out a job application, to help me fill out a fafsa form, to help me select colleges, to help me write my college essays, to do all those things that my family should have done. maybe i am overstepping or overextending the role of a teacher, but that is how influential my teachers were in my life. and that is the kind of teacher i want to be. so it pains me when i hear students, when i ask them about their career choices and more often than not, i do not hear education as a viable option or teaching as a choice for them. we have to do more to change the perception surrounding this profession, to give students a new idea of what teaching is and what it looks like and how they can use their gifts to influence this profession. i always think about my grandmother who really, she never got the opportunity to see me as a teacher of the year. well she did, but my grandmother suffers from alzheimer's and it is getting progressively worse. and when i decided to go to school, i already had my daughter, i was in college and i was a mother and my grandmother helped me and this has been a very long process. so it is interesting now that i am at the end of this journey that it seems like it happened overnight, but this was a long time in the making. and i go visit my grandmother whenever i am home and she remembers very little. you know, she does not really even understand the impact that she is had in my life these days. and i say to her, do you know who i am? and she said, i do not know your name. she does not know my name. and i said, but do you know who i am? and she says, yes, i know who you are though. and i said, who am i? and she said, you are that teacher, the one who won the award. so i think about the way my grandmother remembers teaching and the way she thinks of me. and i feel like everybody should think of this profession in that way. the other thing that has really guided me throughout this year as i tore as the national teacher of the year is the idea that even though i knew i wanted to be a teacher, i was not sure where i fit in this dynamic. i never had a minority teacher. and i look at my students today and i realize that diversity and education is such a critical challenge that we face. many of our students do not see themselves represented in our classrooms and they do not know how to navigate this idea of the education world and being prepared for the workforce and life. i had amazing teachers. every one of them cared about me deeply. but there was still a void because i never saw myself represented in education. i think that we have to do a better job of being intentional about making sure that our students see themselves represented, that they feel celebrated, that they understand how to celebrate the diversity in others and that they take that with them into the world. i think that is more important now than ever. i have students who are asking me questions these days that i cannot answer. and i am relying on them to teach each other about who they are and what they represent. and i think probably the most important thing about having this platform is that i can share with the country how i feel about service and being of service. when i filled out my national application, i had several people who looked at it and they said to me, you spend way too much time talking about community service and giving back to our community and not enough time talking about academically what you do. i operate under the premise that it is of no benefit to anyone if students have high grades and tremendous honor if they do nothing to help other people. that is who i am as a teacher. that is what i believe. that is where i come from. i am a person who was raised by my community. i share that same stage with many of my students. i lived in one of the largest housing projects in waterbury where i am from. i have students who live there today and they carry a tremendous amount of shame and frustration about who they are and where they come from. i have students who do not understand all the social justice issues that are happening in the world and want to see a better future. my response to them is be the change you wish to see. my students and i contribute in so many ways to our community and i want them to understand that they have the ability to improve their communities. it is not just they do not understand how they can use their voice and they get frustrated and they want to protest and they want to do different things and i tell them, be a part of the solution and i guess that is what my message to you would be. everyone in this room is here because in some way you were celebrated. i would encourage you to go back to your schools and your districts and help another teacher do the same. get another teacher to the point where you are. i think that now we have a unique opportunity to write the narrative, to change the narrative. so often we sit back and people tell us what education should look like. i heard very little about education in the last few months. so i think that we have an opportunity and we should seize that opportunity to become a part of that conversation, to lead the dialogue, to change the narrative, to show people who we are and what we do. students are depending on us to be that kind of a leader. students are depending on us to be their voice. i have to navigate very lightly because i have students in my school who email me every day who have all these questions, who want to know what their future looks like and what they can expect. i do not know how to answer those things but i do not think that it should stop the work that is in front of us. i do not think it should change our goal. everyone in this room became an educator for a very specific reason but most of those reasons have something to do with to improve outcomes for kids, to make our future a better place, to serve our communities, to be the change that we wish to see. i think we need to go back to that place and remind ourselves of who we are and what we do and why it is important and be steadfast in that mission, to share that goal. marie talked about my daughter. my daughter is also a teacher. my daughter, i had my daughter when i was 17. i was in high school and i struggled to support her for a very long time. in the space of five years i went from a first generation college educated family to a second generation college educated family. my daughter is also a teacher. so i know what education can do. i know how it can change the narrative. i know how it can improve outcomes and hold the promise of a better future. and i know that because i live it every day and it is incumbent upon all of us to help students understand and believe that. i work in a high school and sometimes teenagers cannot see that far down the road. while i am planning for my future, they are planning for saturday. they do not really understand that eventually this will work out. they do not really understand that this is not as bad as it gets. they do not really understand that there is always someone worse off than you. and i think we have a responsibility to hold them, to support them, to nurture them until they see that for themselves, until they realize it for themselves. while we are talking about all of the things that we have to do and we meet in conferences like this and we talk about how do we tackle the challenges in education, i hope we have some discussion about nurturing empathy in our students, about teaching kindness, about helping them understand that you have a responsibility to help your neighbor, to be a friend, to improve your communities. i think there is no better place than pennsylvania to have that message. we are all in this together for the coming good. there is no one side or the other. there is no one group or the other. i am from connecticut and connecticut is a very tricky state because we have some of the wealthiest communities, we have some of the poorest communities. we have urban, suburban, rural, we have indian reservations and you see pockets of students who experience a tremendous amount of success. and then you see students who are being educated in circumstances that are the shame of our nation. that should not happen. that should not happen in connecticut. that should not happen in pennsylvania. that should not happen in new york. that should not happen in america. we have to do a better job of making access to opportunities equitable for all students of making sure that the education that a student receives is not dependent upon where they live or where they come from. and we really have to show students that if they work hard, i still believe in the work that teachers do. i still believe in the dream, the promise of education, the future that this country holds. i still believe in all of that. so maybe i am a little naive, a little stupid, a little jet lag. i do not know what it is. maybe all of the above, a little tipsy. i went to the mill last night. but whatever it is, i believe in the work that we do. i have seen it happen. i know that it happened and i am so humbled, grateful, and proud to be a part of it happening. so i guess in closing, i will just say that all i can do is share my story. that is the only one i know. my perspective is based on my experiences, but that is just a small part of the narrative surrounding education. i think that we all have to step outside of our comfort zones. that we all have to open our classroom doors and share our gifts and improve our colleagues and build culture in our school and elevate our students. we cannot afford to blink and just be concerned about the students that are in front of us. you know, this year has given me the opportunity to see students all over the country, to work with teachers all over the country. and i can tell you that there is a need for all of us. there is a need for us to get involved in this dialogue, to become a part of the conversation, to work together on every level. so i am, thank you again for inviting me. congratulations to all of the teachers of the year in the room and to the people who are not teachers of the year. that is the one problem i have with this whole thing. and i do not know if this is the right place to say that, because 2016 i was named the national teacher of the year. every year before that i was not the national teacher of the year. this idea that i had to be recognized on this level and become a part of this group in order to be a good teacher is baloney. i have been doing the same thing for the last decade in my class with my students with the same amount of passion, enthusiasm, dedication. and i know that there are three million teachers in this country who have never been recognized and will never be recognized, that do the same thing every day. and i think those are the real heroes. those are the people that give us the energy to survive. those are the people that give us the stories that we carry forth. those are the teacher who probably do not have the platform or the voice to share what they know. so we are just basically a vessel to do that. so those are the people that i really celebrate every day. this is nothing new. we have all heard this so many times before. when i look, the problems and challenges in education are not that new. we are not reinventing the wheel. i said a couple months ago in washington. i am tired of sitting back and admiring the problem. it is time to fix it. it is time to work together. it is time to put our own interests aside. it is time to share our gifts. it is time to collaborate with our partners. it is time to bring in other districts. it is time to elevate other teachers. it is time. it is time. enough of us sitting around collecting data, talking about what we need to do and what the problems are. we know what the problems are. i do not know if it is because i am a teacher, but teachers are very practical. if something does not work, you stop. you change it. you move forward. reflexible. we regroup. you do not continue to admire the same problems year after year after year. so as i travel, i always remind people, when you leave conferences like this, use this as an opportunity to have some thoughtful reflection and leave here with some action, some actionable steps about what you can do immediately. it is frustrating to visit conference after conference. i am out of the classroom this year and i do a lot of traveling. i joke that oftentimes i see the same people at many of these events and i say, well, these are professional teachers of the year. they are like really developed. all they do is go to professional development. i am like, what, so what, now what? so i think we are at the now what stage. students are depending on us to be that now what type of teacher, administrator, superintendent, state chief, now what? i would hope that this conference has been a chance for you to collect all that information and come up with some ideas and share those ideas and move forward with the now what frame of mind. so thank you so much for having me. it is still really early. i laugh because people are like, we saw you at the white house. you were so excited. i was like, you have it. it was five of the clock. so i am here and i am trying to get the energy. i hope that you hear what i am trying to say. i hope that you feel how passionate i am about this profession that i love so much. i struggle because people think that, okay, you are the teacher of the year. this is as good as it gets. and every night when i go to bed in the back of my mind i say, what next? what more can you do? i am always looking for ways to challenge myself to be better. i look at this as not the end but a starting point. okay, now i have this platform. now i have this stage. what more can i do? how can i help my students? how can i improve outcomes? how can i go back to my community and share what i have learned with teachers, with students? and i am always thinking, how can i help in this profession? and i think that that is where we all need to be. it is not about us. this is not about me. this has nothing to do with johanna hayes. but it has everything to do with my students and your students and the young people who want to enter this profession and the people who have dedicated their lives to this profession and the promise of this incredible future that i know, that i know we can give to our students. so i am so excited to work with each and every one of you in this journey moving forward to come together and really give all that we can to the profession that we have dedicated our lives to. thank you. thank you. thank you. johanna, on behalf of the educators here in pennsylvania, we want to thank you for all that you do and thank you for coming and sharing your story with us today. you know, as i was sitting and listening, johanna challenged us in a couple of areas that really resonate with where we are at. and i do believe that we are at a turning point in american education in a lot of ways. and you know, johanna spoke about standing in the gap and the teachers that stood in the gap for her as a student growing up. and you think about the students that are waiting in your schools and your classrooms when you get back. and the fact that you are the individuals that are standing in the gap for them and that they are relying on you, each one of them with their own stories to tell. johanna also talked about not only standing in the gap but about leadership and about teachers being the leaders that are building this next generation, not just, and this is what we talked about yesterday, not simply movie students to a point in time where they could demonstrate proficiency on their statewide exam. you know, as important as that is without the empathy, kindness, and character development that johanna referenced, we have not succeeded. you know, our students are facing a very different world than most of us grew up in. and if we are not addressing those issues and preparing them for that world, then we have not succeeded in our mission. and then finally, the third thing that she touched upon, which i think is a good launching off point for today, is this notion about the teaching profession and what is happening to the numbers of individuals going into our profession. i do not have, i apologize that i do not have the exact numbers with me, but i am going to give you some rough numbers because we talk about this a lot at the department. but in the past three to five years, we have seen a 40% decline in the number of students in pennsylvania that are entering our teacher prep programs. and i think every one of us in this room can list out the reasons why. you know, we have all been in this work for a long time. again, you know, my story is 22 years in the field before coming to the department, and many of you have many more years than that. and we have seen things that have happened that have sort of caused this sense of urgency, but we are not seeing our young people entering the teaching profession. and then i am going to go one step further because we have this data as well. when you talk about students of color that are entering our teacher prep programs, those numbers have not only also dropped precipitously by that same 40% number, but those numbers were low to begin with. and in pennsylvania, you know, we are talking about numbers that are two digits at times for certain groups that are entering the teaching profession. and then we wonder, especially those of us that are principals and superintendents and central office folks in the room, when we are out there trying to recruit a diverse workforce, we have not created the pipeline to even get those folks to the table. and our kids are becoming more diverse than ever, including here in pennsylvania. and it is an important part of us equipping our profession to serve our students well. so let me turn a challenge into an opportunity. so yesterday we said at the department of education, we expect all of you to press us to move obstacles for you to do great things. and probably about two months ago, we had one of our districts in the southwest reach out to us at the department and say, hey, we are trying to create a program of study, not just a typical dual enrollment program, but we are trying to start a program of study that will give our students, and this is in a very high poverty urban area, that will give our students credits and give them a jump start on getting a teaching certificate so that we design this program of experiences with developmental childhood courses, with courses in pedagogy, for high school students, and then with the expectation that they return back to teaching their communities. and they came to the department and said, help us to do that. how do we create this program of study, and how can we use our federal funds to support that? and so we have got members of our team, one of our bureau directors and others, who are trying to remove the obstacles and get that district from point a to point b to do something very innovative and transformative that is going to move us ahead. so this is a reminder to all of you. as you hear these sorts of things, and inspiring talks like jahan has brought us, and you are creating that list of, hey, we need to think about this in our districts, come back to the department and hold us accountable for helping to remove the obstacles to get you there. and that even includes, for our superintendents and assistant soups in the room, that even includes with board members. this district took a ride out to harrisburg and brought their board president and board vice president with them to say, pde, this is what we want to create, help us to get there. we are willing to engage in those conversations as well, but do not let the moments pass and do not get back in your districts and just keep doing what you have always done, because if that happens, then we failed even in terms of this conference, because that is not what this is about. so jahana, again, thank you for your words. let us give another big round of applause to jahana for being there with us. thank you. all right. so with that, i am going to turn you loose, make the most of your days. be thoughtful about the sessions you are involved in and give us lots of feedback. thank you, folks. make it a great day.