at this time, we will hear from a very special person. we will hear from the 2016 national teacher of the year. president barack obama honored jahanah hayes as the 2016 national teacher of the year in a very special ceremony at the white house on may 3rd. our president-elect, jim mcamando, who is also from connecticut, represented national p.t.a. there as well. hayes teaches history at the john epkinity high school in waterbury, connecticut. she was selected to receive the honor for her commitment to the importance of service learning and ensuring students are prepared to achieve success in life. she strives to send her students into the world, not just academically prepared, but as a conscientious and productive member of society. hayes says it is of no benefit to anyone if a student achieves high grades and tremendous academic success if they have no desire or knowledge on how to help others. hayes cites her personal experience as her reason for becoming a teacher. she is the first in her family to attend college and gratefully recalls teachers in her life who led her borrow books to learn at home. today, she passes on this work by promoting cultural awareness and developing service learning curriculum for her high school and her community. hayes also believes that students need role models who are reflective of themselves. how true. to that end, she has helped secure grants to promote education as a career, especially from minority candidates. i am pleased and honored to introduce johanna hayes, a 2016 national teacher of the year. please give her a warm tigger. welcome. thank you. thank you. good morning. good morning. good morning. good morning. thank you so much for having me and for the pta's commitment to the teacher of the year program. i do not know where connecticut is. i know you are here. there they are. thank you, connecticut. jim ackamondo, who has been so tremendously supportive throughout this entire process. the connecticut pta actually gave my class a grant. every year, i take my kids to build homes around the country. went to dallas, texas this year with habitat for humanity, and texas. and the pta helped support that. and oh, i cannot. i have to thank my new friends from ohio. i really quickly just serendipitously last night i came in, and i am in the lobby just trying to collect myself. i have been traveling all day. i was in washington all last week. i have been on the road for the last couple weeks. and these women kept coming over to me offering me cake. it was very random, very weird. each one of them separately, please come have cake. would you like to join us for cake? they had no idea who i was. and then finally, i asked them, are you guys just traveling with cake? and they thought about it. and they said, yes, yes we are. so thank you. the cake was amazing. the conversation was even better. and they have adopted me. so i have people from connecticut and people from ohio bookending me while i speak this morning. i think i want to start with a story, just to tell you a little bit about who i am and help you understand why i truly appreciate and understand the commitment of parent teacher organizations. i was raised by my grandmother, my whole life. well, not my whole life, my middle years. my mother was an incredible mother. very supportive, very domestic, a wonderful mother, until the point where she was not. my mother struggled with addiction in my middle years. and my brother and i went to live with my grandmother, who was also raising my three cousins. so the five of us lived in this home. and my grandmother was a tremendous provider. she took care of us. she cared about us. she worked very hard to support us. and when it came to school though, my grandmother just said two things to us. do not let me get a call from the school. and do not bring home any bad grades. that was the extent of her involvement in school. and we knew exactly what that meant. so none of us ever got calls home from school. and none of us ever brought home bad grades. and i thought that that was enough. that what my grandmother was doing for us in relationship to school was enough. until the day where i overheard my teacher, tell another teacher that my grandmother did not care about me. you can imagine how that felt. it was the night before it was parents' night. and we used to put all of our work in a folder for our parents to take with them when they came to visit. well, my grandmother never came to parents' night because she did not drive. and she struggled with a lot of health issues and she had the five of us at home. so my folder was always on my desk the next day. so i am trying to rush in early to get it so that no one would notice that my parent was probably the only parent who did not show up. and i overheard my teacher, tell another teacher in the hallway, those parents do not care. they never come to anything. and i kind of choke up even today when i think about that because 30 years later, the razor sharpness of that comment still bothers me. i still see her standing there. i still smell the perfume she wore when she made that comment because i was confused. how can you say that my grandmother does not care about me when just this morning, i woke up and she had dough rolled out on the kitchen table and she had a soup can making biscuits for us to eat before we went to school. every morning we had a hot breakfast. every day we came home and our laundry was done, our house was taken care of, all of our needs were met. so for my teacher to say that my grandmother did not care because she did not come to a parent teacher event was troubling for me. and i really did not know what that meant or how to process that. so i have always been haunted by the idea that there is a perception that the level of commitment that a person has to a school directly relates to how much they care about their children. when i became a mother, not too long later, i was always very careful about that. i am going to make sure i go to school. i am going to make sure i am active. i am going to make sure i am involved. i had my daughter when i was 17. i got pregnant in high school. it took everything in me to finish school. everything in me that supported my family, my community, my friends to get me through college. and i remember very carefully, there was an event happening at the school and i could not attend. and i was crippled by the fact that my daughter's teacher might make a comment about me, the way a teacher had made a comment about my grandmother many years ago. and that just bothered me. i had just started a job. i was working second shift, the 3-to-11 shift. and i was in what they called the working test period. and in this working test period, you could not take any days off for anything. so i went back and forth. i have to go to the school. but if i take the day off, i am going to lose this very good job that i have just secured. i did not go to the event. and i struggled with that. i called a friend. i was calling around my aunt, my mother, my cousin, can anybody go just so that my daughter will have somebody there. so her teacher will know that her family cares about her. today, i am a teacher. i am happily married. my husband, we both are college educated, have amazingly active careers and work lives. my husband is a homicide detective. the hours for that are crazy. so he really has no set hours. and this new teacher life that i have entered into. and i still struggle with not being at coffee hour in the morning or not being at parent's events. now, here i am, the ideal family. two parent household, college educated, employed. this is what, in my mind, i think the perfect family looks like. and still, i am not attending events at school. i say all of that to say the amount that a person enters a school building, or the time that they spend engaged with the school, does not directly connect to how much they care about their child. if you have any question about whether the pta is still relevant, whether the pta is still necessary, i would say that my grandmother thinks you are relevant, my daughter thinks you are relevant, i think you are relevant. because just because a person is not there or is not present does not mean that they do not have something to add to the conversation. no meaningful conversation about education. i do not care if it is standards, test scores, compensation, building facilities, school lunches can take place without the input of parents, families, and communities. so as a teacher, i carry that with me all the time. and i try to put structures in place so that no child will ever feel embarrassed in my classroom about the family they come from. that no parent will ever be ashamed of the amount of commitment they bring to the table. and no school will be a place where parents, family, students feel unwelcome. not everybody, either knows how has the ability or the time energy effort to put into what we expect as teachers. i get it in a perfect world and an ideal place. we would enter into a dialogue and have conversations where we are both supporting students, but people are supporting students in very different ways. and i think we have to remember that. if we want different results, then we have to do things differently. no longer can we put up a flyer that says we are having a meeting at the school on thursday, please attend. that is not what parent engagement looks like. as i will tell you what, my grandmother would never attend that meeting. there is no bus in the neighborhood where we grew up. and she did not drive. but it does not mean that she did not care about me. it does not mean that she was not doing her part at home to support the education i was receiving at school. we have to look at this through a very different lens. in my school, i have developed programs where i am out in the community. i get it. i am so crippled by the fact that parents can attend parents night that i go the weeks leading up to parents night to our, we have several community centers. and i have open air conversations is what i tell them. and i say to parents, i am in your neighborhood tonight. if you want to talk to me about your child, this is where i will be. i have just started using social media as a platform. in my district, they say we do not want anyone using social media. but this is the world we live in. if we want to engage parents, if we want to connect with people, then we have to do it on their level with the skills and abilities that they possess. there is a very traditional way of looking at education. and if we lived in a very traditional world with traditional children and traditional families, that would work. but when you work in a school and live in a world where you have students where the parents english is not their first language, where you have students who are living in foster care, where you have students who are being raised by an aunt and grandmother, a cousin and uncle because their parent is incarcerated or they are working at night and going to school in the morning and you have all these different dynamics. then that structure that we have in place where parents work from seven to three in meetings take place at five on thursday nights and kids go home to two parents all the time. if we continue to operate within those parameters, you will be talking to yourself because there is about 3% of the population that fits into that box. my son asked me all the time, how come you never come to coffee hour? and i said, because i have to work. how come you have got to work all the time because you have to eat? well, i do not eat that much because he still does not understand what that means. so i reach out to his teacher all the time, but that is because i know how to. not everybody knows how to navigate this system. we use so many acronyms in education that a parent would need a translator to even understand the conversations that we are having. i am the national teacher of the year. i say that because for anyone who does not know any better, they would think that i know about education. i am very well versed. and just last week i am sitting at a conference and i am turning to my colleagues every third word. what does that mean? what are they talking about? l.e.a. i see it. what is happening right now? and i know i am in the field. so imagine how a parent feels. imagine how a grandparent feels with a fifth grade education who can cook anything without a cookbook who is walking in a school, having a conversation with people in a language that she does not understand and nobody stops to explain it to her. imagine how that made her feel. we cannot spend the last decade bashing this profession and then wondering why nobody wants to come in and talk to us. i am sorry. it just gets me so fired up. i live on a cul-de-sac and we have a dog and i am like the worst dog ever because no, really. i just let the dog out in the morning because i am tired. but she is a really good dog. all the kids love her so she goes to all the houses and the kids that are waiting for the bus they pet her and i am like send her home when she is not. and there is one house on my street. everybody has this neighbor. get off of my lawn. she is yelling at the dog and i see her. so i step back thinking that maybe she will think the dog got out and i did not let the dog out. but what i noticed was after a couple days, weeks, whatever, the dog visits everyone when he gets to her house, off of the grass into the street goes around her property to the next house. even a dog knows not to call somewhere where they are not welcome. even a dog knows not to continue to go somewhere where people do not treat them kindly. please help me understand why a parent would want to continue to go to a school where they do not feel welcome, where they are not having good experiences, where there is negative interaction and you are telling them that you value their input. stop telling them. show them that you value their input. over the next year and perhaps for the last decade and throughout my career, i have operated in a way that would be respectful of my grandmother. i have always been mindful to frame my thoughts, my responses, my content as if i was speaking with or dealing with my grandma because my grandmother loved us in a way that i cannot tell you about but i know what it feels like. she could not articulate that. she could not verbalize that but she showed us every day. so to exclude her from the conversation, based on those things is not fair, it is not who we are, it is not what education is about. be purposeful in your interactions. thank you.