exhausted. exhausted. this has been just a roller coaster 48 hours. we waited all day for a secretary of state to come out with numbers. we have been watching them internally based on where the polls close last night and just waiting for the website to keep updating. so, relieved to get this news. excited about winning for a third term for this district and really just grateful to everyone who came out and voted. and, you know, happy that the democrats really have been holding our own across the country. you clearly won late today. they are talking about a bit of vote for you and the margins are way bigger than what it was in 2020 when you won by a lot. what is the message that you tell people who did it vote for you? elections are about math. i won. so, elections are about math and this is historically, i mean this is the fight in fifth for a reason. historically, in a midterm year with a president power, it would say that none of us were supposed to hold a seat. that i would have lost. so, i am grateful for the people who did show up and i remind people every day that it is every vote, every person one at a time. but, i am also going to say that this was a cycle that was different in other ways. national republicans threw everything at me but the kitchen seat. i put millions of dollars in this race. really started a month long, all-out campaign to ship the narrative. so, i had to work twice as hard and really fight to hold this seat. and, at the end of the day, i think that that is the message that resonated with the people in my community. that i am one of them, i am going to continue to fight for them and listen, a win is a win. so, i am excited. i will take it. when it comes to policies, a lot of people were voting on inflation, it is possibly the one something that people are still concerned about. what is it be that you would want to focus now about that you are back in office? to continue all of the things that we were already working on, obviously. i mean, i think a lot of the noise that we have been hearing is about the economy and all of the things that are happening. however, the economy includes not just the cost of goods and services but housing, utilities, the cost of food, all of these things that we have tried to address in the house, child care, all of the things that families pay for on a regular basis. i think that we will see improvement in the economy, lowering the cost of prescription drugs, all of the things that we have done just continuing that work and making sure that our focus is not solely on large corporations. but, legislating for people like we have tried to do. what is your message to both people who voted for you and also the people who voted for george logan? my message for the people, thank you. thank you for allowing me to go back to congress to represent this district. but, my message even for the people who did not vote for me is the same. i am still your congresswoman. i will still work for you like i always have. i will still deliver for the reddest parts of this district, the small communities, and the way that i always have. i will still have exemplary casework services that meet the needs of all of my constituents, so that part does not change at all. i mean, this is an election, this is part of our democracy. people make a choice, they get out and vote. at the end of the day, we have one winner. the votes decide, the people in the district decide. and i come out in majority according to the secretary of state and the state of connecticut. so i am the congressperson for every person in this district, even the people who did not cast a vote for me. has logan campaign reached out to you to see? i have not talked to mr. logan. when it comes to the house, i know that democrats have lost a lot. when it comes to the house, what is kind of your mindset going in now that things will be a lot different going into the house of representatives? i do not think the democrats lost a lot. i mean, the tradition that we are going to lose 40-50 seats, i mean, literally, there is still a pathway in the house. i think there are some places where people thought democrats did not have a chance and have held their own. and the american war play connecticut is what of them. so i do not think that democrats lost a lot. but i think more importantly, everyone on both sides of the aisle have to have a firm commitment to getting to some sense of decency, to restoring our democracy, to making sure that we are upholding our norms. and anyone who is elected to public office should be committed to that. any sort of lessons or takeaways you can take from this particular election, because obviously it was much, much, much closer than how it was in 2020 in the way of election of 2018. cannot take anything for granted. i work for it every single day. you have to get out and talk to people, you have to turn out voters. and i think that is what we did. we really pulled people out of their comfort zone in the last days of this election and reminded them that i cannot do this if you do not vote. obviously, i would have loved to see a much larger margin, but people showed up and that is all that counts. so just making sure that i am on the ground building a coalition and really reminding people of that all along so that we are not doing a last minute push. i am surprised it was so close. no, i mean, it is the fit and it is a midterm year. it is an off year. i am excited that so many people showed up. i am excited that labor was just really committed to electing candidates who are, you know, for working people. so that is something that i am happy about. it probably is a little closer than i expected. but i knew that this race, i mean, everyone told me in my first race, it was like, if you run for a third turn, that'll be your toughest race. it always is. it is an off year. the president's approval rating was low. the economy is struggling right now. so i knew it was going to be hard, but i was willing to fight for it for the people of this district. you still like the job. i mean, it was a brutal campaign. is it still something? no, three terms now. is it, are you excited? or you have one for much of my seconds? this is a long campaign. yeah, this was a long campaign and it did not have to be like this. that is the part that i struggle with because this was really a personal attack on my integrity. i drawn out campaign. it was outside money. and i really, really tried hard for my part to run on the issues to put out ads about the work that i had done. i am thinking that that would be enough. and just really, and ultimately it was, but again, politics does not have to be like this. it could be you put out your platform, the other person puts out their platform, you give people a choice. and they decide which one of those things works best for them. there was a lot in this campaign that did not have to happen. so no matter how small the margin is, i am very happy that that is what resonated with people. and ultimately that is how they cast their vote. what kind of change the way you look at the job going back to what happened to you. is it because i really love the job you have talked about it before we talked. you like it? is it still, i am sorry? the campaign is not what changed the job for me. january 6 is what really made me think about this differently. but i also have a heightened sense of responsibility because right now people are hurting. and there is going to be some tough choices made in the next congress. things like social security, things about things like protecting women's right to choose food security in the next farm bell. those things are so deeply important to me that a tough campaign is going to make me shy away from it. and i really just believe that we need regular people who are committed to standing up and doing this kind of work. we have to representation matters. we have to have a variety of people from different backgrounds in these rooms at these tables where decisions are being made. we can really share the perspectives of the people that are most affected by the legislation that we pass. so happy to go back. where do you go from here now that you declared a bigger? to bet. i am so tired. i am so tired. and you know, there were so many people just waiting with baited breath for the results. so many people were so invested in this campaign. and i know that the last couple of weeks we had people literally overflowing in here. we had to put people outside on the sidewalk. it was just so full. so i felt some sense of responsibility to those people because they needed a representative to go back to washington that really was committed to helping them with so many things. so you have this the weight of the world on your shoulders while you are waiting for the results to come in. but we are back in session next week. the work does the stop. but i kind of thought about it and know what that would be like, you know, working over the next two months in a different situation. is it a concern? obviously we have a lot of elective deniers. is it a concern that because this raises so close and maybe that might come up? absolutely. and that is a dangerous proposition. that is the reason i did not comment on the race while the votes were still being tallied. that was the reason why i had not put out any kind of statement. i was waiting for the secretary of state's official numbers. i mean, they are not certified, but waiting for the secretary of state to upload those numbers. it is dangerous. january 6th started as a result of election deniers and we have had just so many problems in our country, you know, violent attacks because of that. and people have to be very careful with that. i trust the process. i know that connecticut has a safe voting process. i waited for the ballots to be tallied, the votes to be counted and sent to the secretary of state. and then we received that information. i think people need to be very careful with that, planting the seed of distrust in our elections and in our system because it is dangerous. and when that seed festers, we end up with violent attacks like we saw on january 6th. so that is why i did not say anything about this race. i did not make any comments. i waited to get the news from the secretary of state's office. and i think people have to be reminded that voting is how we express our stance on issues. if we do not like something, we vote. we hold our leaders accountable. we do not scale the walls of the capitol and attack democracy. so that is something that every single person should be concerned about. and it should not be promoted by any individual, any media outlet, any person who has, you know, any integrity because it is dangerous. good. okay. you said you were not going to sleep last night. you were staying up all night. no, i tried, but it was impossible. i mean, you are running up here adrenaline. and as you know, when you are on a campaign at the end of the night, you kind of have, you get the number. so you are running your own tally and trying to cross-referant your numbers with the numbers that are coming out. and they are all not, they are not coming out in the same in real time. so it is a lot of ups and downs, a lot of prayer, a lot of periods of wait, check that again, add that up again. so it was a long day. and, you know, i have an amazing team that literally they have not slept either. they have just threw their entire heart into it. one of the things i will say. and this is, this is something that i have really been intentional about. my campaigns, my staff, our people have never done this work before. they are not people who bounce from campaign to campaign. they are people who are invested in, in the work, who believe in what we are trying to do, who walk through the store and say, how can we help? so, you know, it takes us a while sometimes to get our legs under us, but no one's going to outwork us. because these are people who join this team because a policy or something that i am working on deeply affects them or their family, they do not pack up and go to another campaign. they do not care for the long haul. they wait until we close the loops because they believe in the work that we do. they believe in the work that government does. so everybody, everybody gets to go to sleep tonight. could you speak a little bit about the entire delegation that connecticut will be sending to the next congress and how you will be working together? well, we have an amazing delegation. i mean, everybody, i think our work really will be contingent upon the final makeup of the house and of the set of congress, if you will, because every member of the connecticut delegation is either a full committee or a subcommittee chair, which is amazing. we have a seven member delegation and everybody has a very powerful position on a very important and impactful committee. so what we would be able to do if the democrats were to maintain the house would be incredible. i mean, we were able to really fight hard for much of the relief that came back to connecticut from the american rescue plan, which 169 cities and towns are using not only to rescue but to recover infrastructure. you know, i would like to see the child tax credit reinstated and child care a part of the work we do. really intentional investments in education, and closing academic gaps. and i have a delegation that works with me on all of those things. so excited to go back. it generally takes a while to stand up legislation. i mean, speaking of the child tax credit, rose delora worked on that for close to 30 years. so i think in my third turn, i will really be able to push really hard on some of the things i have started and really tried to work on with food security, with special education and closing gaps for kids who have special needs. those are things that i really think have to be a part of legislation in the next congress. sorry, we just got here. if you would not mind sharing how you are feeling and your thoughts on them are really supposed to raise. i am tired. i am tired, but i am excited. i know it was going to be a close race. i did not know it was going to be this close, but i was well identified. it is fight fit. everybody knows that. and i think that just in spite of everything, like i said, they threw everything in the kitchen sink at me and put millions of dollars into a race. so this was not a race. this was different from my other races because this was not me against my opponent. this was not a race between two people fighting to represent this district. this was a race between me and, you know, national super pacs who came at it from every direction. so for me to be able to just stave that off and still come out with a victory, i think is i will take it. i have not. i am sure they are probably waiting for, you know, an official check mark from someone, but the secretary of state is the one in connecticut who certifies our results. you know, the numbers are what went into the secretary of state. so i am confident. i felt confident to come out once i received once i saw that statement come out from the secretary of state saying that we were outside the margin of a recount. and they had gotten the numbers in from all of the polling locations. do you think there is a possibility mr. logan could file a lawsuit going against certain ballots and just sort of a way to possibly recount that is right. i think that i mean we have counted the numbers we have counted them over. welcome anybody else counting them secretary of state, but that is right. the numbers that are playing out currently in this race and how election day has played out. do you have any confidence that the democrats can keep the house? there is still a pathway. i am seeing my colleagues from around the country do some amazing things. races that have been counted out, you know, there was like i said millions of dollars dumped into my race. some colleagues that have had two three times that amount and they are still holding strong and there are tight margins. but i think in this environment with a midterm year with the democratic president, the fact that there was not this clean sweep that everyone was talking about is the story in and of itself. we had some really strong in the toughest districts around the country who have really held their own. i mean, and of course there is been some losses around the country, but nothing compared to what was predicted. it looks like the ap called it. so your final message to people in your district whether they voted for you or not. thank you. i am your kinder, so i am it and i am still going to work for you. i am johnny and i prove this message. thank you for coming out so late. i wish we had information earlier, but nothing changes. you know, i am not going anywhere. i said on november 9th, i was still going to be living in this district. so i am here and i am going to continue to represent the people in this district. so thank you.