ladies and gentlemen please help me welcome john hayes. thank you. i am just a teacher. hello. good evening. this is just weird. it makes me nervous. i think i am gonna fly it. i am sorry. i am johanna hayes. like he said, i am the 2016 national teacher of the year. and i do not think i am ever going to get used to saying that or living this life. a little bit about myself, not because i am so self-absorbed that i want to keep talking about myself, but just because that is the one i know. and as a teacher, i constantly ask myself, you know, what can i do to be better? you know, i cannot change every person that comes through my door so the one i have control over is me. like you heard, i grew up in waterbury, connecticut. i actually teach in the same district that i grew up in. i was a really good student. i enjoyed school. it was a safe place for me. i have one brother. he and i were raised by my mother and she was an excellent mother until she was not. at which point, we went to live with my grandmother. my mother was struggling with addiction and we had a lot of different challenges. and my grandmother took my brother and i to live with her and my three cousins lived there. and we really became a part of our community. i did well in school, like i said. and in high school, i got pregnant at 17, which at the time did not seem like a really big deal because my mother and my grandmother had also gotten pregnant at 17. i worked for a few years, kind of living, doing life, and i always knew i wanted to be a teacher. but i did not really know what that looked like or what i needed to do because no one in my house had ever gone to college. and there was really no discussion about what college looked like or what that journey looked like. about seven years later, and i kid you not, i woke up one day and i said, this cannot be my real life. and i enrolled in community college. i did not tell anyone because i fully expected not to finish. and i finished when i got my bachelor's degree, when i got a master's degree, when i got a graduate degree. i tell you this because while all of that does not seem like the path that would lead me to this stage tonight talking to you or being on the platform as a national teacher of the year, everything i just described makes me the teacher that i am. everything that i do every day is about recognizing that kids come to me with different experiences and different needs and it is my job to meet them where they are. as i travel the country, people ask me all the time, what do you teach? and my answer is always kids. i do not think people really get that. education is twofold. i thought that this was something that only i believed and then i stumbled across some papers by dr. martin luther king in my graduate work where when he was a student at morehouse university he wrote the purpose of education is twofold to build knowledge and character. and it hit me like a ton of bricks. our job is not only to deliver content, you know, some of the most dangerous criminals are gifted with reason, super smart, building bombs every day. but what do you do with that information? so i went into a class determined, determined to get to know my students, to connect with them, to build relationships. if you ever question the work that you do or the impact that you make, i can guarantee you that there is a kid in your room and the only information they are getting about school is from you. i was that kid. we did not have those conversations at home. i knew i wanted to go to school. i did not really know what that looked like. i knew i wanted to go to college. i did not have anyone to discuss that with. do not get me wrong. my grandmother was an excellent provider. she was a terrific grandmother. my home life was stable. she could cook anything without a cookbook. but the conversations we had about school two things she said. do not let the school call here and do not fail a class and a discussion. all five of us knew what that meant. and the school never called home and we never failed a class. but now what? so i go into my class and i become a teacher and i am so excited because this is all i ever wanted to do. in the first couple of years, i really focused on memorizing content, being a good teacher. i teach history. and i came into a department with the 14 teachers in my department. i was the only female. all men, we ate lunch together every day. all they want to talk about was the constitution and reconstruction. that is all we ever talked about. and i was like, i am not that smart. i am not that kind of history teacher. so i really started to make an effort to get to know my students. because i remember myself as a kid knowing that i want to be a teacher, but not seeing myself represented at all in the faculty. not much has changed 30, 15 years later. at my school, i am one of 123 certified professional staff for minorities. i remember growing up thinking, if you have to see it to be it, then there must not be a place in education for me. anyone in this room who thinks that education ends in your classroom is sorely mistaken. it is a shared responsibility. i started to try to convince students that they had a role in their own education, that they were not just passive receivers but active participants. and i started to see what was happening. i started to go out into the community where i live and convince parents to join me as a partner in their child's education. and i started to see some changes. it is interesting because this journey as a national teacher of the year has really forced me to reflect on my own practices. and i realized that over the last decade, i have done some really good stuff. when you are in it, as teachers, we never look for recognition, you just do it. you do the work that needs to be done. but i realized that i have been doing this all along. for the last decade, we have spent so much time trying to remind ourselves not to leave any kid behind that we have forgotten how to intrinsically motivate kids to move forward. we have forgot to show them that they have value. they have worth no matter where they come from or who they are. and as i do not even know what the word is. when i went into this as teacher of the year, i thought all we were going to talk about was education and teaching strategies and differentiation and some of the things i do. and i realized very quickly that it was about me, the person, my whole life, and i was not comfortable with that. but then something started to happen. my kids started to take ownership of who they were and their education. my whole raggedy messed up journey was encouraging them that they were okay exactly as they were. and what they had to do was harness their gifts. and then i got the clever idea. this is the teacher in me. i started to convince them that now they had an obligation, almost a responsibility to invest in their communities and help out. and i see this coming back twofold. a couple of years ago, i teach in ap government class. and i was very disappointed because my scores were not where i wanted them to be. and one of my students said to me, but mrs. hayes, every single one of us registered and voted. okay. our job is not just to produce taxpayers. more importantly, we have to produce citizens. when my students look at me and they want me to answer their questions about what is going on in their world, and then we are responsible for each other. if kids do not leave us knowing that and understanding that, then we have not done what we have been charged to do as teachers. i am so grateful to the adults in my community who stood up and did jobs that did not belong to them, to the people in my neighborhood, to the teachers in my school who did not end their day and say, that is not my job. this is not my responsibility. but took a personal investment in me. that is the only reason i am standing here today. there are so many of my kids every day who come to school. and i send them off. and i pray every night that they will come back the next day. we have to give kids a reason to come back to school. for me, that was the only constant. that was the only safe place. that was the only place where i mattered. today, i know that it is the only place where i make a difference. so as this year, this whirlwind of a year, i struggle with, you know, where is my voice? what am i supposed to do? what is my role? and i think it is almost serendipitous that i end up here today in little rock, arkansas. because as part of the connecticut teacher of the year process, it is a very rigorous process. but i had a group of people come out to my school and observe me teaching. i had to present a portfolio. i had to do a lesson. and the lesson i taught was on a book that my students read, you probably all know it. warrior's do not cry by melba patilla beals. so today, and i almost wish they had not taken me there because it really, i was so conflicted when i left central high school. i went there today. and i walked on the ground and i could just feel the energy and i could feel the responsibility. and i said, we have to do more, you know, as educators, we have to do more. we cannot send kids into the world feeling like nothing has changed. and i went back to the hotel and i called one of my coworkers. and she reminded me of something that happened a few weeks ago. one of my students said to me, morgan, you could probably tell with a name like morgan, who morgan is a white student that i have. and she said to me, i am so glad i had you as a teacher because you have shown me that what my father says about black people is not true. that reminded me that i am already doing my part. you know, i am already teaching kids that we are so much better than what you see. we are so much better than what you hear. we are so much better than what we have come to expect. i ask myself every day, is this an education that i want my child to receive? if you cannot answer yes to that question every single time, then you need to change what you are doing. i am so proud of this profession. i am so proud of teachers. and if you want to know how do we elevate this profession? how do we attract people? every day we go out there, game tight on our best performance. we are getting observed every time we stand up, not by our administrators, but by our students, by our parents. they go out into communities and they talk about who we are and what we do and how we have inspired them. make an investment in your students. love this profession as much as i do. know that what you are doing is truly making a difference. thank you. i am done, but i am watching the clock and i do not want them to give me the hook. but really, i just... i stand here and i just remember being 17 years old and feeling like nothing was ever going to change. i remember going home and wanting an education so badly and talking to my grandmother and her telling me you need to get a job. and there are so many of your kids who are going home and having those same conversations and not it is a one-way conversation. you have to be the other end of that dialogue. you cannot assume that the parents are taking care of it or someone else's responsibility. i am sure my grandmother wanted to do better, but that was as good as it got. that was all she knew. she felt like that she was providing for us. we went to school every day with a hot breakfast. we came home. she took care of the house. and she was an amazing provider. but she did not feel equipped to be an advocate for our education. and i see so many kids and i think that is how i have connected with my parents because i remind them that it is okay. it is okay that you do not know everything about education. the beautiful thing is that we are going to work together and get this done. we are going to work together and get this right. and i care about your child just as much as you do. and when we talk about the last decade where people have been bashing this profession and bashing education, we have a tremendous opportunity. i know i do. i have been propelled into a trajectory where i am on a platform and i have a stage and a voice to tell people what you hear is not all education is about. for the 95 things that are going wrong, there is five things that are going really, really right. and i am the product of that. and if you ever feel like this is not working, this is helpless. do not wait for policy or legislation or someone else. the next big idea to fix education. i say to myself all the time and i say to my students, a flood is just a million tiny drops. do your part. do not wait for the law to change or education to change. in my district, i said to them, i said i have a problem with the fact that we have not four minority educators in a building with 123 certified professional staff. and my superintendent says i am not really sure what we can do. i went online. i apply for a state grant secured 75,000 dollars for my district to start a program to engage kids in teaching as a career. do not wait for somebody to do it. be the change you wish to see. i think i am in a very unique position because i get to see in real time the impact of the work that i have done. as the national teacher of the year, my students were interviewed. i am hearing some of the things they say and it is funny because it is like a running joke in my class. i tell kids teachers never know how good they are until they get you-legized. everyone shows up at the funeral. she was a wonderful teacher. i loved her. i remember this one time. right? i am hearing this in real time and that is so empowering. and the thing is, it just makes me want to do more. you know, it makes me feel more responsible. it makes me feel more eager to work. when i went to central high school today, it made me- i call my coworker, we have to do more. the work is never done. the teaching is not for the faint at heart. if you are looking for- i think we started with summers off. you are in the wrong profession. i have not had a day off since april. seriously, there are no summers off in this profession. you already know. but kids- i do not even know if- rely is the right word or depend. like, i was inextricably connected to my teachers because i saw them as the path that was going to get me out of building nine in that housing project. so, if you ever question the work that you do, you know, if you have a new teacher coming in, show them what is wonderful, what is amazing, what is great, what is good about this profession, because we are change agents. we are the promise of the future. we are the next big thing. you know, so thank you for the work that you do. thank you for having me here. i am so grateful to be counted among such a noble profession.