and we understand right now the democratic candidate, johanna hayes, is addressing her supporters or making her way through the room there. we are not sure why if she is there to claim victory. she is not officially been declared the winner at least by the associated press, but she is ahead, but it is a small margin. perhaps her campaign knows something that the associated press does not know yet. let us see what she has to say. oh, yeah. oh, yeah. oh, yeah. oh, yeah. oh, yeah. oh, yeah. oh, yeah. ladies and gentlemen. well, you all did history here tonight in waterbury. we are routers. we are routers to have each and every one of you here who has worked so hard on this campaign. give yourself a thumbs up. and without further ado, let me introduce the new congresswoman. we will invite you all to get a chance. who cares? oh, jim. oh, jim. oh, jim. oh, jim. oh, jim. oh, jim. oh, jim. oh, jim. oh, jim. i love my mom. thank you all so much for being here. i am so waiting so patiently for me to come down and tell you that you did it. we were waiting upstairs for all of the numbers to come in. i am so excited to see you again. but there is no path to victory. i want to tell you when i started this i knew i could not do it alone. and i asked you to trust me out the gate. i said trust me with your voice. trust me with your voice. and you joined me on this journey. and you reminded me of how good we can be. i want to thank my husband. i want to thank my husband. my husband who has just been my backbone. every step of the way went over a cliff with me time and time again. who reminded me that i deserve this. our kids have no idea what this means or what this looks like. but said we are with you. all of the people, mayor haleary, chris murphy. basically said we got you. i knew. you have heard this before. you know who i am. you know what i stand for. you know what i believe in. but the vote show that you also believe that we are so much better together. you also believe that we have to protect the future that we promise for our kids. you also believe that we have an obligation to be of service to someone else. you also believe that true leaders lead from the front and lead by example. and you reject all of this hate and intolerance and this indescribable fear that does not define who we are. over 220,000 votes were cast in this. over 225 votes. and i told you your vote is your voice. and you use your vote. and you use your voice to vote for me on not one line but two lines. and the democratic party and the working family side. and you said we are not having it that we need somebody to go who is us. who understands us. who understands what we are going through. who is close to the pain that we are experiencing. and for that i thank you. i thank you. this has been such a whirlwind. so many of you. too many people today. you are watching 5th district congresswoman elect. i know you. i think you are the second african american to represent connecticut in congress. the first african american woman elected to represent us in washington. and historic night on this election of campaign 2018. and more to come. i witness news at 11 is coming up next. let us stay with us for that.