all right. good evening, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to welcome you to this very special installment of our florida talks at home series. this evening we are going to have a great conversation with florida secretary of state, laurel lee. for those of you who do not know me, my name is keith simmons. i am the communications director at florida humanities. and so i really want to provide an introduction for secretary lee and turn it over to her because i think that is really going to be the best part of this program. i just wanted to mention a couple of things before we get started. the first is that at the end of tonight's presentation, you will receive a short survey in your email. and we ask that you fill that out just to let us know how you enjoyed the program and ways that we can improve these programs in the future. the second thing that i want to mention is that because we are on a little bit of a tight schedule this evening, we are going to have a slightly modified format. i am going to facilitate a q&a with secretary lee on a range of questions that will hopefully keep a really vibrant conversation going. and so with that, i am going to go ahead and give everyone a more formal introduction of secretary lee. secretary of state laurel in lee was appointed by governor ron desanis as florida's 36th secretary of state and began serving in february of 2019. during her 10-year secretary of state, she has worked to strengthen the state's elections infrastructure and cybersecurity defenses, increased voter registration participation, raised awareness and to protect our state's precious historical resources, and to advance for the arts and culture community libraries and archives. as our state's chief elections officer, secretary lee works to ensure accurate, fair, and secure elections in florida. in 2019, governor desanis directed secretary lee to conduct a review of our statewide elections infrastructure. in response, secretary lee led the joint election security initiative, or jesi, in partnership with all 67 of florida's superbiders of elections to identify and mitigate any vulnerabilities in florida's elections infrastructure. jesi represents an unprecedented cooperative partnership between the department of state and florida's superbiders of elections to enhance cybersecurity statewide. secretary lee is committed to encouraging and promoting participation in democracy. she is honored to serve as florida's chief elections officer during the centennial anniversary and replication of the 19th amendment to the u.s. constitution, and as a member of the women's suffrage centennial commission. secretary lee is florida's chief cultural officer as well, and as such, she serves as an advocate and an ally for arts and cultural organizations around the state. secretary lee also serves as florida's state protocol officer, heading the office of international affairs. in this capacity, she works to create and foster strong and productive diplomatic relationships between florida and other countries. secretary lee previously served as a circuit court judge in florida's 13th judicial circuit in hillsboro county. she was appointed to the circuit court by governor rick scott in 2013, and was re-elected without opposition in 2014. during her time as circuit court judge, secretary lee presided in the circuit civil division, the civil appellate division, and a domestic relations division. prior to serving as a judge, secretary lee was an assistant united states attorney in the middle district of florida and assistant federal public defender in the middle district of florida. she has worked in private practice and as a federal judicial law clerk. secretary lee received her bachelor's degree and a jurist doctorate from the university of florida, where she is a member of florida blue keith. she was inducted into the university of florida hall of fame in 1999. and with that, i would like to turn the conversation over to secretary lee. well, thank you, keith, so much for that introduction. and that was an excellent foundation, actually quite thorough, and an excellent foundation for some of the things that we will be talking about tonight, because it really provided an overview, not just of the department of state and some of our critical functions, but also specifically some of the important work that we have been doing in the elections realm. so, i really will have three topics that i want to share with you tonight, and then we will leave time at the end for a discussion and question and answer session. so, the three things i want to share with you tonight, first i will begin by sharing some demographic information about our state and our voting population, and why it is that florida is the most interesting state in the united states when it comes to elections. second, we will share some information about how to vote in florida, our voting options, and also what we are doing here at the department of state to ensure the integrity of the election process and to protect you and your vote this year. finally, i will touch on just a little bit about what makes 2020 a very unique election year as compared to other years, and then we will go to some question answering here from some of the things that might be interesting to all of you. so, i will start with a little bit of interesting demographic information. so, just today we shared what we refer to as book closing numbers, and what that is is the people in florida who are registered to vote and registered in time to vote in the upcoming presidential election. and what we saw from those numbers to begin is that we now have over 14 million registered voters in florida, and our voter registration breakdown is very closely divided between the two major political parties. at this point, we have 5,169,012 registered republicans, 5,303,254 registered democrats. so, a very close divide between the two major political parties, but another important feature is that we have 3,753,286 voters with no party affiliation. so, that is a very fast growing voter demographic for us in florida. and of course, we are also the state in the united states with the third largest population. so, we are a very significant state for election outcomes, and we have a very evenly divided voting population. so, that is how we get our name as a purple state, because a candidate from either of the major political parties can easily win an election state-wide. so, unlike other states where a majority of voters may clearly be in one political party or the other, not so in florida. so, we are, that is what makes our elections so exciting, and that is also what leads to very, very close election margins. so, a per frame of reference, in 2016, donald trump won florida by 1.2 percentage points. in 2012, president barack obama won by 0.9 percentage points. so, you know, of course, we all anxiously await to see what happens here on november 3rd, but if history is any indication, we are expecting that the election in florida will be close and will be an interesting election to watch. so, another thing that is significant to know about that is that it is one of the reasons that makes civic engagement and each individual voter very important. each voice, each vote, especially matters. in a state like florida, where our election margins are so very close. so, one of the things that i always do when i have an opportunity to speak to a group is encourage civic participation. of course, if you are not registered to vote, get registered to vote, and remember how close those elections are, because every single voter can make a difference. there is several things that we are also encouraging voters to do this year. because of the coronavirus, which i will talk about a little more later, things have really changed the selection cycle, where typically you would be seeing candidate forums and community events. many of those have gone virtual, but it is important to know that they are still happening. so, if you are interested in learning more about a particular political candidate or a particular political issue, still seek that information out, because you will find that all of those candidates and all of those issue groups are still out there very much trying to connect with voters, most have just taken their information and taken their forums and events and placed them online. so, i encourage you all to stay active and engage with the political process just as you would in a normal year and just understand that you might be looking in different places to find those opportunities to interact with candidates. so, the second thing that i want to spend a little time talking about is how to vote in florida and what we are doing, both the department of state and your local supervisor of elections, to protect the integrity of our election and also to keep you and your vote safe. so, in florida, we are very fortunate to have three options for all voters, voting by mail, voting in person, by early voting, and then voting in person on election day. so, one, i will spend just a minute on vote by mail because of course there has been, we have all heard a bit of a national dialogue around the subject of voting by mail. and it is important for floridians to know that voting by mail in florida is safe, it is reliable, and you can have confidence that if you choose to vote by mail, your vote will be counted. voting by mail in florida is something that we are very experienced with. this is not a system that we attempted to enact or change as a consequence of the coronavirus. it is actually something that we have been doing successfully for a very long time. voting by mail in florida actually dates back in some form or fashion all the way to 1917, and it has existed in much its present format for close to 20 years. so, in florida, a voter must request a vote by mail ballot when they make that request of a supervisor of election. that request must match an existing voting record. ballot goes to the voter, the voter fills out and completes his or her ballot, signs it, sends it back, and that signature, again, must match an existing voting record. so, the reason that those steps are important is because they are part of the way that we ensure the integrity of that vote by mail process, that we have those checks in place to enhance the integrity and security and the vote all the way from when it leaves the supervisor's office all the way to when it gets back. so, you know, we are very fortunate to be experienced with this process. our elections officials know how to use it. our postal carriers are familiar with it, and so are our voters. so, we here in florida, i believe, will have a very successful vote by mail operation. two things that are important to know, particularly if you are a new voter to using that voting option, is first, the vote by mail ballot must be signed, and second, it must be received by 7pm local time on election day. so, it is very important that if you choose to vote by mail, you ensure your ballot gets back to your supervisor of election by 7pm on election day. so, early voting and voting in person on election day, early voting coming up, there is a period where all counties across the state will have early voting. that will be october 24th through 31st. some counties will have additional early voting days starting as early as this coming monday. so, early voting will also be coming to you soon as an option for casting a ballot. that is often how i choose to vote. early voting is a very convenient and easy thing to do, and available, of course, again, for every florida voter. and then last but not least, we have election day voting on that'll be november 3rd. so, before going out to vote this year, i do encourage everyone to go to your supervisor of elections website and check your precinct on polling location information. make sure you have got the best, most up-to-date information before you head out to the polls. it is also important to know, and one thing i want to spend a little bit of time talking about is what we are doing to protect you and your vote for those who do choose to vote in person, whether by early voting or voting on election day. so, obviously, we are all experiencing the still the coronavirus pandemic, and we have worked very hard at the state level and the local level to ensure that we are prepared to meet that challenge and keep voters and the voting process safe. governor desantis entered an executive order in response to the pandemic to ensure that local supervisors of elections had the extra support they needed, including directing our state department of emergency management to provide necessary ppe. so, face masks, hand sanitizer, sanitizing wipes, to ensure that all local election officials had all of the equipment and supplies that they might need to keep those polling locations clean and safe for voters. we will be observing social distancing in the polls. so, whether you are standing in line or actually voting, you can expect that social distancing and public health guidance will be observed. aside, note to that, one thing we might also see, though, because supervisors are working so hard to keep precinct locations sanitized and observe social distancing, voting may take a little bit longer this year. so, please understand that as voters are spaced out, six feet apart, and polling locations are sanitized thoroughly, that it might just take a little bit longer this year. so, please plan ahead and try to be a little bit patient with your supervisor of election if you do see a bit of a line on election day. let us see, i also want to talk a bit about what we are doing on the cybersecurity front. that, i think, is very important information for all floridians to have to know that once they cast that ballot, that their ballot is counted and their ballot is secure. when keith went through the introduction of me, he actually covered a great summary of some of the important work that we have been doing with supervisors of elections to ensure that we had developed a strong baseline of cyber and physical security across the state. over this past year and a half, our cyber security experts at the department of state have gone every single one of florida's 67 counties. and in collaboration with each of those supervisors and their staff conducted an election-specific risk assessment to see where we were and then worked with those supervisors to ensure that any vulnerabilities that were identified were addressed or mitigated prior to the election. so, we also work very closely with our federal partners, both department of homeland security and the fbi work very closely with us to ensure that we have information that we need and resources that we need to stay strong and be prepared for any threats that might come to our elections infrastructure. and we do face serious threats. you know, every single day, domestic and foreign actors attempt to penetrate our network, and every single day we defend against those threats. and through our election security initiative with the supervisors, we have worked very hard to be sure that we have things in place like hardware, software, updated voting systems, upgraded firewalls, and all of the tools that we believe that we need to try to be continually prepared to meet those threats as they evolve and emerge. we have made significant investments in all of those things that i just mentioned, both federal dollars and state dollars, to make sure that we had the tools, equipment, and expertise that were required in today's voting environment. and one thing that is also a really great component of the joint election security initiative is, you know, we recognized, and i learned over the course of time through working with cybersecurity experts that you can make these critical investments. you can invest millions and millions of dollars. but if you do not also train your employees, you know, all of us who are working in the field of elections, if we all do not also understand, what is a fishing email? what is social engineering? what are the tools that some of these bad actors are using to try to manipulate our behavior that, you know, if an employee clicks the wrong email, we could still be made vulnerable despite these critical investments. so we have also focused a lot on training to try to be sure that anyone who is touching the elections infrastructure understands those threats and is prepared to identify and fight against those threats. we refer to that as our human firewall. so we have been working on building up and strengthening our human firewall in addition to our cyber and physical firewalls. so one final thing on that is how, just how important our partners both federally and locally really are because, you know, one thing i think that we all recognized early is that we are going to succeed or fail as a state. and we share these common goals. i think every single one of us, whether it is the 67 supervisors or our incredible staff up here at the department of state, we all want this to be an election that florida can be proud of and have confidence in. and so we are very unified in our goals and our objectives and really it has been just an extraordinary pleasure working with all of them to prepare for the upcoming election. all right, so my third topic and then we will go to questions is i want to spend just a moment on what makes this particular election unique. and of course, the number one issue that is making this particular election unique is the coronavirus. so we had all been working to be ready for the election and really thought we had thought of everything, everything from the cybersecurity to the physical security of our offices to preparing for hurricanes and other natural disasters and really thought we were prepared for everything. and like so many different sectors and industries along came the coronavirus and it changed everything. so we really had to stop and you know, be followed the cdc guidelines, see what they were, how are they going to apply to the way that we operate. what if anything that we need to change and adapt to to ensure that we could keep our election workers and our voters safe at the polls. and we had an election, of course, we had our primary election back in august. and that was an opportunity to see all of these, all of the plans and procedures that we put in place at work. and i am very pleased to report that it was very successful that you know, as we talked about earlier that our elections officials and our poll workers ensure that our precinct facilities were kept clean, that voters were spaced out, that they all were masks. everything possible that we can do to make sure that voters who choose to vote in person can have confidence in that process and feel free to exercise that as their option to vote. of course, another important feature is that when it comes to vote by mail, we are what is referred to as a no-excuse required state. in other words, anyone can vote by mail. you do not have to fit a certain criteria or be out of town or anything like that. anyone who is so desires, if a voter is more comfortable, anyone who wants to vote by mail is entitled to do that in florida. and supervisors of election are also working very hard to make sure that it is there are many opportunities to return those ballots. so any voter who has opted to vote by mail and has that ballot can either put it in the mail to send it back. you can drop it off at any early voting site while those early voting sites are open. or even on election day, you can take it back to the supervisor of elections office if you wish. so i know we are covering a lot of information. so if any of you have specific questions, if there is something that i mentioned that you want to know more about, i highly encourage you to check out the department of state website or your supervisor of elections website. we have immense amounts of material about all of these subjects and also a voter assistance hotline that any voter can call if you have questions about what to do or what your options may be. so other things that make this election unique, of course, we got a lot of federal dollars to help address the coronavirus pandemic. and that was very helpful. that helped supervisors of election do everything from pay for extra postage to different equipments to get extra staff to help process an increase in vote by mail ballots. a key difference that we see is a significant increase in the number of voters who are choosing to vote by mail. so historically, we would often see voters divide about evenly, a third to third, a third from each of those three options. and in august primary, we saw 60% of voters choose to vote by mail. so we are expecting that to continue again in the general election that we think we will have a very high volume of voters who opt to vote by mail. so that is another thing that is unique about the upcoming general election. so with that, i am going to bring this to a conclusion so we can go to questions. but in conclusion, i want you all to walk away from tonight knowing that we have made significant and critical investments in our elections infrastructure to be sure that you and your vote are safe. as the nation's largest swing state, your vote could absolutely make the difference. so it is critical that you get out there and vote. civic engagement also means one thing that is very important that i am sure we will cover in the questions and answers. i want to be sure that i touch on before we close out tonight is the concept of misinformation and disinformation. part of being civically engaged is being sure that when you go seek out information that you are getting it from a reliable source, that you are getting good, accurate information that you can count on. and one great way to do that is to go to your supervisor of elections or the department of state. remember that you have options when it comes to casting your ballot so you can choose the one that is the best for you in florida. and most important, i like to leave this with every group i have the chance to spend some time with is this. the concept that elections are partisan, you know, particularly at a moment like this when we are getting so close to election day, you know, we all see that elections can be very partisan. but elections administration is not. and your supervisor of elections and our team here at the department of state, we work for every floridian. regardless of how you may choose to vote or what your party affiliation is, that we are here for every floridian. elections administration is not a partisan business. so we want all florida voters to know that they can have confidence in the integrity of our elections and the security of their vote. so with that keith, i would welcome any questions that you have or any matters that would be good for discussion. thank you so much. i think for that fast meeting inside in terms of our process. and i do have a couple questions that i was thinking of as we were, you were talking and one of the things that i am kind of curious about is as our state's chief elections officer, i wonder if you could just tell us what is your favorite memory or experience with boating? my most memorable voting experience was the first time that i was personally acquainted with a candidate. and this particular candidate was in, let us see, it was a primary election who is running for congress and had a primary and there was a runoff in the primary election. and so it was kind of an extra round that nobody was expecting to have. and i remember at the time i was a new lawyer. i was still relatively new at my law firm and in the day that this election was scheduled, was a very busy day at work and it was pouring rain. and i really had to make myself get up and go to leave my desk and go and vote. and my friend who was a candidate actually won. but by the smallest, it was a handful of votes. and i will never forget it because that was what first really resonated with me that voting is not the kind of action where we can sit back and think someone else will do it. that someone else will do it and it will express what i want to see happen in our society or it will adequately express my views and what i want for the future of my community. it is very important that all of us learn about candidates, learn about issues and rain or no rain that we all get out there and vote. well, i think certainly like you said, rain or no rain, global pandemic or not or anything else that is going on. there is certainly options for floridians to express their opinion and to exercise their right to vote. and i think certainly everyone that is watching this presentation will certainly do that. one of the questions i kind of have is related to this. so, you know, we are certainly going to be going through the voting process over the next couple of days and weeks. and it is very common in the past for a candidate to be declared the winner on election night, particularly for the presidency. but the process itself in terms of declaring candidate and following through is a little bit more involved than that. so, i wonder if you could just give us an overview of how exactly does it work? how are these votes tallied? i know that there is something called certification that the secretary provides for different elections. and so, what does that entail? sure. so, you are obviously right. this is a really interesting subject and something that you are going to hear secretaries of state talking about across the country. so, i am very optimistic that we likely will have unaffordable results on election night in florida. there are a couple of reasons why we are differently situated than some other states. and one is that our supervisors of election can start canvassing vote by mail ballots as they come in. and many of them are already doing that. governor desantis actually extended the amount of days and time that they had to conduct that canvassing as vote by mail ballots in his executive order. so, our supervisors are already doing that work and keeping up with those balances they come in. and in some other states that work cannot begin until election day. another important difference is that our ballots, our vote by mail ballots are all due on election day by 7 p.m. some other states, that is not the case. some of them have a deadline that can be days or more after election day. so, i have heard a number of my counterparts in other states talk about how, hey, we are not going to have election day this year. we are going to have election week or election month. and again, i do not think in florida that that is nearly as likely to be a challenge. that said, one of the things that your question touched on that is important to remember is that what we see on election night is unofficial preliminary results. those are not the official election night results. so, we will get those in on election night, the unofficial results. we do have two time zones. so, we do not announce anything at the department of state until the central time zone polls are also closed. and then after that point, the unofficial results are due to the department of state on november 7, four days after the election. and the official results from the supervisors of elections are due on november 15. so, after that, we will certify the official results of the election. i think that is certainly great information to know just that we can have a general sense of how the election turned out. but it is really that certification at the end that sort of puts the seal on on everything. is that right? that is exactly right. that is exactly right. and so, i think that something that is such a moment as event like an election and something where a lot of us as citizens, we go, we do our part, we see the results and then we kind of go on with our lives. but i imagine if you are a supervisor of elections or the secretary of state, you know, once an election is certified and it is officially over so to speak, how soon are you starting to prepare for the next election? and what does that process look like? i mean, is it a multi-year process? you get somewhat of a break in between or when do you have to start thinking about the next set of elections? yes, elections and preparation for elections is a job that never stops. so, many of the things that we are actually doing now to prepare for november 3rd are actually systems and processes and investments we are making that are not just for this election but are for the coming elections in in future years. so, we will immediately begin work on the 2022 elections as soon as as we finish this one. so, it is very much a year-round task in the division of elections. similarly, when we talk about and one thing that is been a subject of particular interest in this election cycle because of the world we live in today is cybersecurity and and election security and in that realm, one of the things that i like to say is that cybersecurity is a race with no finish line. so, the threats we face, the threat landscape that we confront in the world of cybersecurity is constantly evolving. so, that is a challenge we will continue to meet every day, a constantly evolving challenge that we will never stop working on. so, we really are in a state of perpetual motion and perpetual preparation when it comes to elections and making sure that we stay current, making sure that we stay in constant communication contact with our partners and being prepared for any eventuality that might come up in the future. and certainly be assuring that you have all that work going on, you know, just consistently in terms of preparing for elections. and i wanted to go back just for a second if we could to talking about when it comes to a single election. and so, you are in that voting booth and you see like in this year it is a presidential election year, so you have presidents. it is not uncommon to also have senators, members of congress and you know, the list kind of goes down down ballot, so to speak. and wonder if you have come across in your work as secretary of state, is there a really sort of unique office or position that some entity that the people for to get to elect, i am thinking sort of like the stereotypical dog catcher that we kind of heard about, you know, as a possibility. is there anything really like that that you have seen? oh, 100%. and you will see offices, typically, you know, down near the end of your local ballot, there will absolutely, in many counties, be offices that are less common and less frequently known, things like bridge authorities, port authorities, we even have mosquito control districts, soil and water conservation districts, island authorities. we have all kinds of interesting regional or local things that might end up on your ballots. so one thing that is a great exercise for voters is to get your sample ballot. get your sample ballot from your supervisor of election, see what is in that lineup. so if there is something that you are not familiar with, you have a chance before you get, before you have to actually mark that ballot, you have a chance to do all the research or study that you might like to do. same about constitutional amendments. if you have any questions or things that you want to know or understand about those constitutional amendments, and whether to vote yes or no, it is a great opportunity to read those in advance before you get to the polls. i think that is absolutely fantastic advice. and we talked about this a little bit i think in my introduction of you, and you mentioned some of these things i think earlier in our conversation, talking about the secretary of state. you are the chief election officer, but also the chief cultural officer, the protocol officer. so this is not directly related to voting per se, but i guess if you know trying to explain your job sort of in a nutshell, what all would you say a secretary of state does or what all is a secretary of state responsible for? that is a great question because we are an incredibly diverse agency, and you know you really covered a lot of the things that we touch on in your introduction. so you know we work in, we have the division of arts and culture where we support arts and culture agencies around the state. of course here is a place that we intersect a great deal with humanities and the types of things that we bring to communities to enrich them and make them stronger. so our culture is a big part of what we do. and i am really looking one of the things i am looking forward to post-election day is the opportunity to spend some more time on these other parts of the department of state. we have the division of historical resources, which is responsible for preserving and promoting and sharing florida's unique history and are we have an incredible collection of historical objects and artifacts. we actually have over 3.5 million artifacts in our collection that date all the way back 14,000 years to the paleo-india period. so we have one of the world's most amazing collections of dug out canoes. so i highly encourage if you have another opportunity to check out, we have four museums that house a lot of these great objects. so if you have not got to check them out, i highly encourage it. we have the state library and archives. there two libraries of course remain a vital hub for literacy, technology, connecting a community to the broader world. but they have also really evolved to include some very innovative programming, classes, fitness courses, financial classes. they are even libraries in florida where you can check out a fishing pole. so if you have not been to your local library, i highly recommend checking it out. we did bring that last year, the division of international affairs. so i frequently will talk to diplomats from foreign countries who are assigned to florida who are interested in fostering stronger relationships with us, socially, culturally, economically. so i get to spend some time with some really, really fascinating people from around the world in that regard. and then of course we have the division of corporations. so there we try to make sure that florida has a very business and consumer-friendly filing environment. so the bottom line is the department of state is an incredible place. it is absolutely filled with this set of each so diverse but so important, so special to florida and who we are as a community and as a culture, as a state. so i absolutely love getting to work in all of these different areas. and again, starting november 4th, it is been a little more time in the other divisions of the department of state. and that is fantastic. and certainly, florida humanities has been able to become very well acquainted with you in your office because of that shared interest in arts and culture. and so we are incredibly grateful for the relationship that we have been able to have with the department of state for a number of years. and i wonder if you could maybe tell us, i think we are going to try to draw down the conversation a little bit. being a talk just a little bit more about some of your offices' efforts to support arts and culture in florida. and perhaps what you see is your vision for arts and culture here in our state. absolutely. well, and on the subject, we have talked about how the coronavirus has affected elections a great deal. but of course, it is also having incredibly significant and drastic effects on our arts and culture community. and that community is such an incredible part of both what makes florida such a vibrant and rich place to be, that enriches our communities and strengthens our communities. it is also a huge economic driver in florida. arts and culture organizations are a huge part of our tourism industry. and what not only brings people to florida, but makes them stay. you make some stay for a couple of extra days and take in a show in the museum and a dinner. so not only did many of our arts and culture partners, whether it was the gallery, the performance center, we have to go dark when the pandemic broke out. so we lost their front end revenue. we are also facing emerging here in terms of funding and our space movement. so one of the things that i want her to do as we go into next year is really work hard to try to highlight the challenges that these organizations are on the same floor. so we can be, we find a thing called partner with them to ensure that they are getting the community support, the state and national support that can be put their doors open. and then certainly appreciate again those efforts in that regard. and i certainly would be remiss if i did not mention that one of the products that we have been able to produce at florida humanities with the generous support of the department of state as form magazine. and i would like to just invite our viewers that you can go to florida humanities.org and you can access our very rich archive several decades going back in terms of different issues. and recently we have been very honored to have secretary lee feature a letter in some of these most recent issues that we have published. and so again we are just very grateful for all the work that you are doing not just for arts and culture but for your entire portfolio as secretary of state as well as just all the work that you have done on behalf of the people of florida. so again, just very grateful to you and to your entire staff. well i appreciate it and some of the many interventions and the libraries have been able to put on together were extremely proud of at the department of state. so i appreciate the opportunity to contribute to such a beautiful publication. i also think we get to be here with you tonight. it is such an important time for us to be reaching voters and communicating with voters. and so i really appreciate you having been very, very helpful. absolutely. and again, thank you for the time that you are able to spend with us this evening. we really do appreciate it. i think that we have got a lot of great insight into how our electoral process works but certainly the takeaway i think for everyone who is watching this program is to visit your local supervisor of elections website as well as to visit the website for the secretary of state to get the most accurate up-to-date information on voted and to then also go out and vote. and certainly one of the most important things that i think we can do in this last few months of this very interesting year that has been 2020. so again, secretary lee, thank you for your time this evening. we really do appreciate it. thank you. thank you. and again, thank you to all of our viewers who are here tonight. again, you should receive a survey following the conclusion of this program and certainly let us know how we did. and once again, we are looking forward to seeing you again next week. so until then, take care.