after warnings to keep away from mexico. those warnings come to after the kidnapping and murder of us citizens by a drug cartel. even tourists, friendly hot spots have people worry of threats of violence impacted on both sides of the border. joining me now, lieutenant chris oliverias of the texas department of public safety and florida congresswoman laura lee. lt, you know, i always say that the texas dps is the last line of defense of the border. you came out strong last week. you say, do not go to mexico. do not do it. what made you get to that decision as a department? well, laura, it is great to be with you. it is great to see that the message, as far as federal workers is pretty resonating with not only the american people but the freebreakers. but the whole purpose of that message, that advisory was to you want to ensure the safety and not only texans, but everyone that traveled into mexico because of the increased violence between the mexican drug cartels. it is not only having to be mindful of possible targeted attacks, but also between rival cartels that are fighting each other over lucrative smugging routes as well as with the mexican military. and that is why we put that advisory out because we want the american people. we want texas to be safe and to avoid traveling to mexico because of the most recent attacks that took place on those four americans. but also lawrence, what we are learning too as well, is not only the mexican cartels with the violence, but also these pharmacies in mexico that are selling pharmaceuticals that are tainted with fentanyl and other lucid drugs such as heroin and methamphetamine, which also is a significant threat to anyone who travels into mexico and goes to these pharmacies to purchase pills such as adderall, danics, percocet, whatever the case may be. so that is another message i mean, want to make very clear is to avoid going into these pharmacies in mexico and to avoid buying any pill whatsoever unless it is prescribed by a licensed position or pharmacist. so congresswoman, you have all the people saying, avoid mexico, but right here in florida, there is still the effects of the border of the fentanyl coming across that they have to deal with even here at home. that is right. and one thing that we are seeing is that today, every community in america is a border community. our homeland security committee went this past week down to the southern border to conduct a fair deal in border to conduct a field hearing. and we heard from the chief of border patrol, we heard from local sheriffs, landowners, and one thing was crystal clear, we do not have a secure border and we do not have full operational control of that border and your focus on fentanyl is so important because it is coming across that southern border into the united states and it is poisoning and killing americans every single day. we can only get to the root of this problem if we secure that border and keep our community safe and we have got to change the biden administration policies that are letting the cartels bring all of this dangerous substance into our country. lt, i want you to put your dad hat on because i know you love your kids more than anything in the world. when you see what is happening in spring break, what you see what is happening in our schools, you do not come at it from a law enforcement perspective. what do you do? what do we need to do to educate our kids? well, i think it is right now, especially what you have been doing with your great reporting on the fentanyl word, but we need to continue as far as educating our kids, our friends, our founding members about the dangers of fentanyl. but most importantly, we really need to go out to these organizations that are mass-producing fentanyl. governor abbott declared the mexican drug cartels as terrorist organizations last year at the state level. we need the federal government to step in and take action. as we speak right now, lawrence, as much of it hurts me to even say it, we probably have someone out there right now that has lost her life because of fentanyl poisoning. time is of the essence, that is why we need to have some action in place to actually go out through these organizations and protect the lives of the american people from these deadly poisonous taking place. let us come across our borders. it is so true, congresswoman. a grandmother and her grandchild were just killed across the border here at home. it is no longer a mexico problem. so why is not there a substance of urgency from all of congress? well, i will tell you there is absolutely a sense of urgency from republicans in congress, who have been pointing out the incredible dangers that are posed by allowing the cartels to come across our border to engage in human trafficking, drug smuggling. we have folks from the terrorist watch list who are coming across our border into our country. so it is time is of the essence for us to take strong, swift action. to secure our border. republicans are working hard on this. we would love to have our democrat colleagues join us because this is not a partisan issue. this is not a republican issue or a democrat issue. this is an american issue, keeping our people and our citizens safe. but i will tell you this. we are conducting these hearings. we are getting to the bottom of this information and accountability is coming. congresswoman, lt, thanks so much for joining us. congresswoman, lt, thanks so much for joining the program.