as the former secretary of state of florida, i know well how important preparation and planning are to the administration of elections. and in order for americans to have confidence in their elections, voters need to have equal access to voting. this includes polling stations having the necessary equipment and resources to allow all voters voices to be heard. the concern county as we have heard is failure. in order for chairman, we have not heard. is the former secretary of state chairman, i yield back. the gentleman yields back, ms. lee is now recognized for five minutes. thank you, mr. chairman. as the former secretary of state of florida, i know well how important preparation and planning are to the administration of elections. and in order for americans to have confidence in their elections, voters need to have equal access to voting. this includes polling stations having the necessary equipment and resources to allow all voters voices to be heard. as the current minister of the state, i would like to ask you to enter into the record a brief statement from bernadette hiwish, a voter who had difficulty voting last november. thank you, mr. chairman. i am going to read an excerpt from this statement. i arrived at the polling location at 6.45 am. i was the first person from the mayflower section of wilkes bar to sign in. after doing this, the poll workers were then told not to sign anyone in because the machines were not working correctly. it was going on for approximately 7.40 am and i had to get back to work when i asked for a provisional ballot. i was not happy doing it this way, but because i was already signed in, i could not leave and come back. i went back to the polling location around 7.30 to see if i could have in my provisional ballot poll and vote by machine. i knew it was a long shot, but was not confident my vote would be counted. commissioner palmer, i would like to address my questions to you. first, is not it true that the eac issued warnings to local election officials that there might be paper shortages in 2022? yes, madam. that was a number of months prior to the election, including back into the primary that there were shortages and paper stops. is not it also correct that the eac advised jurisdictions that they should be taking steps to ensure that they had the necessary supply of paper to be prepared for the 2022 election? in conjunction with our partners, we issued those warnings that they needed to prepare as early as possible. in fact, there were deadlines that look, if you are ordering past this date, you are not insured to have adequate paper. and for those jurisdictions that did follow the warnings and the advice that was issued by the eac about ensuring that that supply was in place sufficiently in advance of the 2022 election, they were successful. were they not? no, they were. yes. commissioner palmer, are you familiar with voting systems testing and certification? yes, madam. are you also familiar with standards and best practices that are used to maintain election integrity and security during the voting process? yes, madam. in your opinion, is it appropriate for an election administrator at a precinct to be using standard paper for the purpose of tabulating ballots? no, that is not a security feature. that ensures that every ballot's being cast on, ballot stock, a mark since ballot, and not just a piece of paper. so it is a security feature. so once you dismiss that, you are opening it up to other issues. and that is why it is not a best practice. and is the eac willing or has the eac provided guidance to state and local election officials about the types of stock or the types of stock that can be used with certain voting systems? yes. so when a voting system comes into an accredited lab for testing, the manufacturer provides that data on what the link, the thickness of the different types of ballots or paper or stock that would be used. and so it is tested to those. it is not tested to paper or other configurations. and so once it is certified to that, the manufacturer and the user has an understanding of what ballot stock could be used with that voting equipment. again, it is a very regimented process. so once you are outside that using regular pieces of paper, that is really, you are breaking down one of the security features of the process. is that certification process an important part of ensuring the security of elections? i think so because what it shows is that we are testing these systems for different manufacturers over and over with upgrades. and it shows that the system will work under different circumstances. and so we will certify that at the federal level. and in fact, many states also have a certification process to ensure that the ballots that are used in your county or your state will work on those voting machines. and would you share with us how the eac can be involved with helping states identify and implement best practices when it comes to this testing and certification? well, we have a clearinghouse where we offer best practices to states and issues such as this. we have a subject matter experts and elections and a testing and certification. these are technical experts. and so we hope to provide assistance to the states and localities when they need it on these type of issues. thank you, commissioner palmer. mr. chairman, i yield back.