the secret service under fire for what lawmakers call a lack of planning and a communications breakdown surrounding the first assassination attempt on president donald trump. in its preliminary findings, the house task force investigation details numerous security failures in the days leading up to that july 13th rally in butler, pennsylvania. they say that shooting was preventable. joining me now i have republican florida congresswoman laurel lee, a member of the trump assassination attempt task force. congresswoman, welcome back to the show. as always, you and i have talked at length about the egregious oversights of that day before. this 53 page report just dropped 24 hours ago. can any actionable change come from it? good morning, markey. it is great to see you. i do believe we have already seen actionable change as a consequence of these events and the investigation that we have been conducting. so the two key things that we identified related to butler were a failure to adequately plan an advance of the event and then an inadequate amount of communication and coordination the day of. so i know the secret service has been working hard to make sure that they have added additional resources that they are doing more advance work with local law enforcement, really to make sure that when they are out at any event with president trump or with vice president harris, that there is that cohesive use of federal and local law enforcement working together to secure these sites. yeah. and you brought me to my next question because i was going to say two weeks out to the election day, both of these candidates still have so many rallies so you can confirm secret service has stepped up its game, especially for voters who want to attend these rallies. absolutely. and that was the number one objective of this task force is, you know, of course to understand what happened and make sure that there is accountability and corrections to anything that need to be improved. but number one goal is make sure that president trump and any other protectee are being kept safe through this home stretch. so that being said, there is a lot of work left to do to get to the bottom of how all of these failures could have coalesced. there were some reforms that need to be made to the way that secret service approaches, event management, its workforce. so there are a number of things in our final report that will also be reviewed and analyzed. but there has been a tremendous amount of work done thus far, both by congress and by secret service to make sure that more is being done in this home stretch to prevent incidents like this from occurring. and congresswoman, when you look in your crystal ball, if you will, i mean, what does the future of the secret service look like? and what is the answer to getting there? is it more funding or what is it going to take? well, i do think there needs to be a look at whether there are enough secret service agents on this protective mission. and also, how can they effectively train and prepare their partners, whether it is from homeland security investigations or local law enforcement? how can those individuals also be better prepared and integrated into the secret service mission? i do think there will need to be really an expansion of the number of highly trained specialized secret service agents, whether that requires additional funding is a different question. because there is overall a lot of funding going to the department of homeland security. so it might be that we need to refine where that is being spent, how it is being spent. but i do not think there is any question that we need additional secret service agents on the ground to prepare to take this mission on. it is just been a, it was a scary summer of campaigning. there is no doubt about it. 30 seconds left, congresswoman, we know the task force is not done with the investigation. what comes next? what is the biggest question you still have top of mind? well, we are still looking at, of course, of course, there is a second very frightening assassination attempt against president trump and florida. so one of the things that we are still doing is looking at that. were there any of the same failures? were there any of the same issues that repeated there at that second attempt? so we are still looking at that. and also the question of who these people were, where they came from, did they have any influences from other people? so those questions, we are really great, we are strong. we have got a lot of information about the logistics, what failed, what strategy did not work. but the questions we still want to answer are the broader ones about where do these people come from and the work that we can do to make sure that something like this does not happen again and that we are prepared for the future threats that come. well, we will be eager to see all of those updates ourselves. congresswoman laura lee, as always, thank you for your time right here on morning in america. thanks for watching, everybody. go to joinininn.com to find news nation on your television provider. also do not forget to click that red subscribe button below to get more of news nations, fact-driven, unbiased coverage.