of elections and helping when requested to facilitate today's election. as with any election, before a voter goes to the polls today, they should check with their local supervisor for polling locations. as is true in every election, the most current and up-to-date polling place information is going to be on the voter's respective supervisor of election website. additionally, instead of relying on information that has been shared on social media about precincts and voting information, voters should rely on trusted sources for information regarding their polling places and regarding what is happening at their polling places today. accurate information is with your supervisors of election. again, for florida voters who are planning to vote today, questions about polling locations or any other registration or voting matters should go to their supervisor of elections or utilize the division of elections voter information look up tool. this morning, we reached out to all supervisor of elections offices and have been assured that polling locations are prepared and equipped for voters. supervisors have taken health precautions to mitigate the spread of covid-19. we are also aware of the concerning information just shared by governor desantis. last week, we moved all polling locations from facilities that would have endangered the health and welfare of residents in assisted living and other facilities that house are medically vulnerable. voters concerned about covid-19 should make themselves aware of ways to protect themselves against exposure and follow the guidance they are receiving from health professionals. the florida department of state has provided guidance and information to all supervisors of elections about preparing for and mitigating any type of exposure to covid-19 polling locations. for those voters who will be at the polls today, sanitation and safety are our top priority. voters of elections are aware of all guidance received from the cdc and the florida department of health. best practices for hand washing and sanitation, as well as guidance from voting machine manufacturers on how to best sanitize voting machines. we are prioritizing the health of voters and election workers. the division of elections is also in communication with the united states postal service to ensure that all returned vote-by-mail ballots that can be delivered are received by supervisor of elections offices by poll closing at 7pm local time. the department is also monitoring security statewide. currently, there are no reported issues. the division of elections offers a toll-free voter assistance hotline. that number is 1-866-308-6739 and this operates in both english and in spanish. voters can also contact their supervisor of elections office with any questions. tonight florida's election results for the presidential preference primary will be available on the florida election watch website, which is floridaelectionwatch.gov. voters to the site will be able to track results by county and can also compare statewide and county results. please be aware that while florida polls close at 7pm, florida has two time zones. voting will not be completed statewide until 7pm central time, 8pm eastern time. election results will be published on the florida election watch website after 8pm eastern time. we are fortunate in florida to have numerous options to cast our votes securely and safely. we encourage all the radiance who have not already voted to use those options today. there is still plenty of time. do we have any questions? let me ask you, do you have a hand-close company for us inside of north carolina today or called in early or just did not show up? can you address that issue out of the here-of-the-wire? we do know that there were some poll workers who did not report today. our supervisors of election maintained extensive lists of poll workers and alternate poll workers. so they would be the best source of specific information about how many of those alternate poll workers are in use today. what kind of concern or precautions have been made in terms of potentially somewhat contaminating their mailing balance and then that valley being opened up by somebody in the office down the road? so we have ensured that the supervisors are aware of all guidance that we have received regarding covid precautions, including both those in their physical space at the precinct locations and any that might be associated with vote-by-mail ballots and hard services. so we are just following the best information that we have received from our health professionals. basically the governor did some order just a few minutes ago in bars and restaurants. previously with bay county there was a more relative to their own building. i guess one i confused about is why the department of state has not taken any action or recommended any recommendations to be more flexible with the deadlines. and the follow-up question that is, are you all being so strict about these rules because you do not want to set a precedent for november when you think that there might be lawsuits in that? precinct-based voting is unlike the types of gatherings that we have been advised to avoid in florida. we are in the presidential preference primary so we are not expecting large crowds or long lines. so the normal and regular protocols and statues that we follow in elections, we believe are consistent with the types of precautions that are being advised and we have shared all of those with supervisors. so at the precinct level our supervisors and our election workers are ensuring that they are following those guidelines and we have been advised by our health officials and the department of health that voting in this election is safe for both voters and poll workers who follow that guidance. the vote will would have been heard to change the deadlines to say if it is post-marked by today it still counts. in florida we are very fortunate to have a number of ways that voters can cast their ballot. unlike some other states, floridians can vote on election day. they also had the opportunity to vote in early voting and of course we allow vote-by-mail for all voters who wish to exercise that option. so our voters had numerous ways that they could choose to cast their ballot and can continue to do so today. madam secretary, i am wondering if you already know this any kind of meddling perhaps from outsiders, you mentioned social media and voters' trust, their local election officials. i am wondering what your office has been doing to address that and what can you do if you see misinformation on social media? we are working very closely with both the local supervisors and also our federal partners and our federal law enforcement partners to ensure that floridians and voters across the country are aware that accurate timely information should come from your elected officials so that if there is any bad information or incorrect information out there on social media that voters do not rely on it and do not allow that information to affect their behavior or their decision making on election day. so voters who have questions should consult their local supervisor of election, our voter assistance hotline or our website to ensure that the information that they are receiving is accurate. but have you noticed any irregularities? we are monitoring and will be all day to see if there is any information out there that we believe is incorrect and of course our own social media pages and that of supervisors of elections are working consistently throughout the day to be sure that the best most up-to-date information is being provided. do you have any details on the number of polling sites that have been relocated from places where there was an at-risk population from coronavirus? democrats have said that 91 precincts have been moved across 58 counties that they were used to serve and i am wondering if you have precise details on those. so earlier this week we did announce that any precinct locations that were within an assisted living facility or another facility where our elderly and medically vulnerable reside were being moved. the best most accurate information about exactly how many precincts may have been consolidated or relocated would come from the supervisors of election themselves. we do have links on our department of state website that will take you to the supervisor sites where that information can be obtained. secretary, do you have any more questions? how are patients who have covid-19 that are in the state voting today? so any voter who is currently experiencing symptoms of covid-19 can still designate someone else to pick up their vote-by-mail ballot for them. there are two affidavits to complete and send with them that i described earlier and but those voters can absolutely still have a designate go take their ballot and get it for them so long as it is returned by 7 p.m. today. if they are out of state you met person filling the bubble, sign and do all this, but if they look at the effects it, like how physically can a person in ohio say maybe get a vote down here or ballot down here. physical ballots need to be returned to the supervisors of elections office by 7 p.m. today. thank you.