hello jacksonville. oh, you all look good in red. yes, but come on, we are going to have to get pretty hyped up because guess what? we have got mike waltz, matt gates, and the best governor in the union, rhonda santis. come on. yes, my name is cat camack, and i am your republican nominee for florida's third congressional district. home to the gator nation. any gator fans in here? you know, yesterday i had the opportunity to sit with president trump, and he leaned over to me and he said, cat, how are we looking in florida? and i said, mr. president, tomorrow night, jacksonville is going to show you just how good you are looking in florida. and i am sitting in the oval office and thinking, oh my goodness, what an honor. i am just a regular person. see, i grew up the daughter of a single mother. i grew up on a cattle ranch, and i grew up wanting to take over my family's small business, but big government got in the way. and in 2011, they took our cattle ranch. yeah, let them know what you think about that. that he does. because you know obama and his cronies, they like to tell lies all the time. remember this one? if you like your doctor, you can write? so we lost our cattle ranch because of their lies and big government. and now today, because of president donald j. trump, i am sitting here 32 years old, the youngest congresswoman in the gop in the country, homeless to the house of representatives in less than 10 years. homeless to the house of representatives in 10 years, because only in america is that possible. and only if we elect donald j. trump, more freedom, more opportunity, more prosperity, only in america under donald j. trump. am i right? and i feel a particular sense of duty in getting the young women out to vote for president trump. where am i ladies at? yes. i see you guys. and they tell me all the time, conservative struggle with women. women do not like donald trump. ladies? is that true? i did not think so. and they told me that if you are a college educated woman that you need to devote for hillary clinton, unbelievable, right? yes. but as the first in my family to go to college, a graduate of the united states naval war college, go navy. i told them i would have had to have been dead to vote for hillary clinton. and in that case, i would have voted twice. and also the wife of a first responder. my husband is a firefighter and a swat medic and he is sitting right there. and so it just really gets to me when i see these antifa people and these liberal radicals calling to defund the police. it is never going to happen. it is never going to happen because when you have a president like donald j. trump, we are not only going to defend the police. we are going to fully fund them and we are going to always have their back. back to blue. am i right? so i have an ask for you guys. we have got 40 days, 40 days to save america. and it is going to take every single one of us calling our friends, talking to our neighbors, getting out the vote because this election is so much bigger than us. this election is about right versus wrong. this is about america versus socialism. this is about equal opportunity versus equal outcome. and i know which side of that fence you all are going to be on. so now we are here tonight. we are celebrating president trump. we are getting out the vote. we are getting fired up. we are going to stage the greatest comeback that the world has ever seen. but we need your help. we are going to make facts matter again because the fake news, it sure does not right? that is right. so again, november 3rd, every single person here, we need you to give everything that you have got for the next 40 days. give us the next 40 days and president trump will give you everything he is got for the next four years. because we need him for how many more years? four more years, right? and so i am asking you guys, take this energy, take this momentum from today. we have got a great lineup of speakers coming up. and as i said to president trump in the oval office yesterday, mr. president, tomorrow jacksonville is going to give you a taste of just how good you are doing in florida. so let us show him. come on guys. make some noise for donald j. trump. my name is kat hammack and i am proud to represent the gator nation. thank you guys for being here and let us go get him. thank you. please welcome our next speaker, congressman matt gates.