hey you all, how you all doing? are you fired up? now let us change that. are you pissed off? that is what i like to hear, and that is that exact attitude that we need for the next 17 days. am i right? exactly. i am catcamac. i am the representative from florida's third congressional district. the gator nation. and i know i am in dog country. i know i am in bulldog country, and you are probably wondering what in the hell is a florida gator doing in georgia besides the fact that we are in the sec championship. my body bird is back here. he is a hurricane. so it is mixed company today. but i am telling you, i am here today because georgia matters. it matters so much that you all got a florida gator in red and black. that is how much it matters you all. and we have got a fantastic lineup. david said it. the calvary is here. he is got all these incredible people behind me, but a good friend of mine, senator ted cruz. and i know that you all want to hear from him, so i am going to keep it short. but i just wanted to share a little bit about my story with you all. so you have some additional ammunition and know that you have got friends all over this country. see, politics was not in my plan. i am the daughter of a single mother. a third generation commercial sandblaster. i am the wife of a firefighter and a swap medic. do we have any first responders here? yeah. i am here. thank you. thank you. give it up for our first responders, you all. and exactly nine years ago, i found myself homeless because of an old man. obama era housing program. obama and his cronies took our cattle ranch away. and now, biden and his cronies, they want to put all those terrible policies back in place that made millions of people, my family included homeless. are we going to let them do that? that is what i like to hear. you all are fired up. and you know what? when i come downstairs, first thing in the morning, you know what the first thing i see is my husband's swap vest on our kitchen table. and you know what biden wants to do? and you know what warlock wants to do? and awesome. he wants to take that very same vest off. my husband's back and defund the police. are we going to let them do that? hell no, we are not going to let them defund the police. and so i have not asked for you because this is personal. this is deeply personal. these people are coming after us, our families, our communities, our way of life and our country. and i will be damned if they are going to do that. am i right? so my ask to you all today, 17 days, 17 days to give it everything that you have got, every one of us here today, we are believers, but it is going to require every person that we know, every friend, every family member, every coworker, call, text, drive them to the polls, make a plan, everything that you have got for the next 17 days. and then we will have our country back. but it is going to take every single one of us getting uncomfortable and making that sacrifice. so please, join me for the next 17 days, noctores, make phone calls, text, email, everything that you possibly can so we can save georgia, we can save the senate, and we can save these united states. are you with me? thank you, georgia. let us do this. georgia, let us do this.