all right, let us bring in florida republican congresswoman, kat chemack. kat, great to see you. now, before we even go to the broader story here, i know that you have a very personal story. and i just want to kind of let you share that to kind of frame our discussion. absolutely, good to see you katrina and bob. and yes, this is a personal issue to me on so many levels, starting with the fact that i am not even supposed to be here. my mom, she was urged to abort me because i was a high risk pregnancy. when she was 27 years old, pregnant with my older sister, she suffered a stroke. and it took her about a year, year and a half to learn how to walk again, basic motor skills. and it was then that the doctor has told her that she would never be able to have children safely again, because it would certainly be dangerous for her, even life threatening, and a child certainly would not make it to term. so when she found herself pregnant with me years later, the doctors immediately told her to abort me second opinions of doctors told her she needed to abort me, including her own family. my grandparents urged her to do the same. and it was a heartbreaking moment in her life, but she against all odds, against all that pressure, she chose life. and she carried me to term and delivered a healthy baby girl. and i am here today because of my mom's courage in order to make that very, very personal life changing decision for herself. but she thought that it was so important to protect her baby girl. and it was truly god's intervention in that moment. so for me, looking ahead, looking now is the voice of the generation of millennials in congress, but millennials and gen zs all across this country. this is really truly the issue of our lifetime. this is a human rights issue. this is about a women's empowerment issue. being pro-life is the party of science. it is the party, it is the movement of the human rights movement. and really, this is going to be a defining moment that we see here as the final ruling comes out because we will be the post-row generation as well. and just to finish up, your narrative, your story, you are married to a first responder. i forget how many kids you have, but i met one of them. she is really smart. so that is what has come in your congress woman, which is just an extraordinary story. give us a feel for what florida politics are like when it comes to this issue, because it is known as a swing state. it is been more conservative lately. but i am kind of curious where people are standing on this and what conversations you are having with people. because i do not make it like it is cut and dried in florida especially. you know, it is definitely becoming more of a conservative state florida is. and of course, we had our amazing governor, rhonda santos, just signed into law the 15-week abortion ban. and i think that this is long overdue because we now know that science is catching up to what we have known all along that life begins at conception and that viability in that question and concern of viability, it is certainly at 15 weeks if not sooner. and that is when you really start to get into this conversation about not just viability but consent. and when i talk to people on the ground back home throughout the state, they all are very, very deeply rooted in their own belief system. some folks believe that this is very much a woman's issue where she should be able to terminate the child up until the day of delivery. because they do not see that child as a child. they see it as something that is within that woman's womb and that that woman has complete autonomy over that independent, that child. however, the thing that i continually push back with is that is a separate heartbeat. that is two heartbeat sets the mother, that is the child, that is two sets of du dna, unique dna. it is a completely separate issue than what the left has been parroting since 1973. they are talking, they are same old talking points. and when you push back with the issue of, hey, viability is absolutely happening at 15 weeks. we have seen this, science is catching up. and they say, well, you know, maybe that is one of the things. i fire back with my archie sik and tired of the hypocrisy of government. how is it that they could possibly classify bacteria on mars' life? but they are not going to classify that child with a functioning brain and a heartbeat in the womb as life. yeah, on that, i am sorry to interrupt there, but i did want to continue that discussion on viability, keeping it in florida. republican senator rick scott, of course, from florida, pendant new piece, urging those on the left, on the left to answer the question in this headline, quote, democrats, when do you think life begins? his piece goes on to argue, quote, when do democrats believe life begins? a conception at viability, at birth, after birth, they will not say, even more disconcerting, reporters will not ask them. it is a dereliction of duty by the mainstream media not to push the question. and it is an abdication of their responsibility to inform the american public and spur legitimate debate. your take on that, i mean, it kind of seems. the question is, would they even be able to agree on an answer to that question? you know, i really do not think so, because what we have seen from the left is that they want to avoid having a diversity of opinion, a diversity of thought. they are all about diversity when that narrative fits their own agenda. but when it comes to actually dealing with the facts and sciences on our side in the pro-life movement on this, when it comes to dealing with the facts, they do not want to discuss it. they immediately turn nasty. they start trying to yell over you and shout you down. and that is why we are seeing this very dangerous environment surrounding the supreme court justices. you have a generation of people who have been given a participation award their entire life, and they think that they can bully their way into a ruling that they really have no idea what they are talking about. not the supreme court justices, but these protesters. roe v. wade is simply returning this issue back to the states where he is rightfully belonged for so long. they do not understand that. i cannot imagine how foolish someone must feel protesting an issue that they quite frankly do not understand. all right. thank you so much. congresswoman kamik for being with us. always a pleasure talking to you. thanks, bob.