tonight is the annual congressional baseball game and climate change activists are preparing to protest this family-friendly event. yeah, terrific. one activist writing an op-ed in the washington post saying, quote, "'as the world burns, congress appears ready to remain perfectly hitless on climate change and as if playing games with the atmosphere were not enough, these same members of congress now want to play a literal game of baseball in july 28th as if everything were fine.'" i thought they were contentious, gluing themselves to the mona lisa. koli shimkis is at the national's ballpark for the congressional baseball game. congressman rod williams and congresswoman kat kamiq are there with you, koli, to get their reactions to all this controversy and fun. yeah, that is absolutely right. we are playing baseball later. you too are, but there is also a lot of news to get to because of these protests. a congressman, you have been on the team since 2012. have you ever known the congressional baseball game a charity event to be protested? no, i do not understand. it is charity to chance to forget party political lines and give to charity. we are looking at $1.7 million a charity night. that is a no-brainer and why people want to go in and challenge that and take away from the greatness of that is beyond me. $1.7 million to $35 different local charities, which is great. and it is a bipartisan event. congresswoman, a lot of these protesters say that they are exercising their peaceful right to protest, which is fine. others say that they are willing to get arrested to shut down the game entirely. what do you think about that? well, it is kind of like coach williams here said. nothing says you care, like shutting down a charity game, right? especially one that is for kids and children's charities. but, you know, i have noticed the posters. they are fliring all over the city. and again, nothing says that you care about the environment, like throwing paper all over the city. so, i think it is just looking for attention and it is going to be fine. we are going to have a great night and there is a lot of people. it is a sold out game. we are excited. well, i see the trophy in the background here. is it here because the republicans won last year? it is here because we won last year. we are going to take it home tonight and we are going to keep it till we see you next year. so how is the team looking? we look really good. you know, we won last year, carly, but we are betting we were last year. really? they worked hard and i am proud of them. we have been practicing since march. our first practice, we had snow. there is actually a major committed snow at 5.30 in the morning. i thought that is how much we are being a lawmaker is taxing enough. why add this on? because we care. it is fun, right? yeah. 5.30 to 7 every morning. i am proud of everybody. 5.30 to 7. so, when you get up before 5.30, you turn on fox and friends first, right? and then you watch fox and friends when you come back and practice naturally. why did you want to join the team? last year was your first year on the team, right? that is the question i ask you too. that is what i ask myself. why did i want to join the team? no, it is fantastic to one, build these relationships that camaraderie with your colleagues. it is truly the best way to build relationships. and this entire congressional experience is all about relationships. plus, when you are playing for a guy like roger williams, who is so passionate about it, and it is just infectious. it is hard not to get excited about the game. will you play professional baseball at one point, right? yeah, played in atlanta, braze organization, cleveland indians. that is awesome. baseball is a big part of mine. you are bringing your talents to washington, dc and teaching the masses. you tried to teach me one year. how to swing a bat. you did not go over too well. maybe you were not going to work on fielding. yeah, i do not know about that either. i thought that your career was going to end right then and there. you quit trying to teach me. is there any camaraderie between the republican team and the democrat team? whether it is. we have got a lot of friends on each team. we have fun, you know, neatly in each other and so forth. manager doyle, who is the manager of the democrats and our good buddies, we have fun making fun of each other. but at the end of the day, we are back to one thing. charity, helping kids, helping those that need to be. yeah, it is a really great example of bipartisanship. and guys, you heard it here. they are very confident that this trophy right behind it. i hope you can see it. i do not know if you can, but if you are right here, can i touch it? can i bring it over? you cannot drink out of it. do not you? oh, it is. it is heavier than i expected. you are confident that it is staying with the republican team. are you guys confident, too? the whole team is behind the camera. that is beautiful. looks like a cap of it. i am loving what you are doing this morning, farley. karly, you are always having a congresswoman and a congressman on and they are always dressed in their uniforms. this is like the third hit i have seen where you are doing this. is not it great? yes. and, karly, do you have time to ask them in their preferred pronouns? oh, brian wants to know your preferred pronouns. it is a tricky... skip. we have a skip herd of patron. i like that. i did not know that was a pronoun, but that is good. all right. it is now. we can make up all the rules. karly and the congressman and woman, thank you very much for joining us live from nationals park there in navy yard.