Skip to content
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR SENATOR CRAMER'S WEEKLY NEWSLETTER
Skip to content
Senator Cramer Facebook
Senator Cramer Twitter
Senator Cramer Youtube
Senator Cramer Instagram
Senator Cramer Mail
News
Press
U.S. Air Force Welcomes General Ken Wilsbach as Chief of Staff
November 18, 2025
U.S. Air Force Welcomes General Ken Wilsbach as Chief of Staff
*** Click
here
for media resources.***
WASHINGTON, D.C. – General Ken Wilsbach formally assumed responsibility of serving as the U.S. Air Force Chief of Staff on Tuesday during a ceremony at Joint Base Andrews. As the 24th Air Force Chief of Staff, he oversees 665,000 active, guard, reserve, and civilian personnel, and sets the strategic direction for force modernization and global operations.
General
Wilsbach previously served as the Commander of Air Combat Command (ACC), which operates more than 1,600 aircraft, 35 wings, 12 bases, and 1,371 units at more than 263 operating locations worldwide with 155,205 total force military and civilian personnel. ACC develops strategy, doctrine, concepts, tactics and procedures for air, space, and cyber-power employment.
U.S. Senator Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Chair of the Senate Armed Services (SASC) Airland Subcommittee, attended the ceremony and celebrated General Wilsbach’s milestone.
“I can’t think of anyone better prepared to take the helm as Chief of Staff of the Air Force than General Ken Wilsbach, he is eminently prepared,”
said
Cramer
in a video statement after the event.
“From a warfighter to leading the Air Force in the Pacific to Air Combat Command, he’s the perfect person for the slot. By the way, Cindy [Wilsbach] is a rockstar as well. I’ve watched her with Airmen, she deeply cares about them, she serves the spouses and others with great care and compassion. They’re a dynamic team for sure, and I’m just really grateful for his knowledge of the assets in North Dakota and his commitment to building a more modern, faster, and more lethal Air Force than ever before. He already heads the greatest Air Force in the world.”
General
Wilsbach
joined
Cramer in visiting Grand Forks Air Force Base in June 2024 to discuss base quality of life, current and future intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities, the growth of the Space Development Agency, and other potential missions. They also visited the North Dakota Air National Guard in Fargo.
After his nomination, General
Wilsbach
sent
a letter to the Air Force where he said
“readiness is fundamental”
and stressed his goal of modernizing
“to win today and into the future.”
He said,
“…air superiority is not guaranteed. It must be earned every day. […] Every Airman has a role to play in ensuring the United States Air Force remains the world’s most capable, most lethal, and most respected fighting force. I’m excited to see the ingenuity and the capability of our Airmen. Fight’s on!”
General
Wilsbach succeeds General David Allvin, who retired at the beginning of the month. He was commissioned in 1985 as a distinguished graduate of the University of Florida’s ROTC program and earned his pilot wings in 1986 as a distinguished graduate from Laughlin Air Force Base, Texas. He has commanded a fighter squadron, operations group, two wings, two Numbered Air Forces and held various staff assignments including Director of Operations, Combined Air Operations Center and Director of Operations, U.S. Central Command. General
Wilsbach is a command pilot with more than 6,000 hours in multiple aircraft and has flown 71 combat missions in operations Northern Watch, Southern Watch and Enduring Freedom.
Tags:
Defense & Foreign Policy
Previous Article
Next Article
nav-mobile-modal
search-mobile-modal