Skip to content
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR SENATOR CRAMER'S WEEKLY NEWSLETTER
Skip to content
Senator Cramer Facebook
Senator Cramer Twitter
Senator Cramer Youtube
Senator Cramer Instagram
Senator Cramer Mail
News
Press
Cramer Delivers Virtual Remarks at 19th Annual UAS Summit
October 14, 2025
Cramer Delivers Virtual Remarks at 19th Annual UAS Summit
Announces Grand Forks Air Force Base as Home of the New Point Defense Battle Lab
WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Kevin Cramer (R-ND) addressed attendees virtually at the 19th annual Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) Summit and Expo in Grand Forks today. This is a gathering of policymakers and industry leaders from around the world who discuss the regulatory, economic, and technological events in the unmanned aerial system industry.
Due to the ongoing government shutdown, both Cramer and his guest, U.S. Secretary of Transportation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration Interim Administrator Sean Duffy, were unable to attend the event in person.
***Click
here
to watch his full remarks. Click
here
for audio.***
“This ecosystem I talk about so much that has been developed right there in the very place you’re hanging out, it can’t be overstated,”
said Cramer.
“Look around, you created what’s going on in the room you’re in right now. […] I’m just standing on your shoulders. […] I just want to say thank you, thanks for what you do, thanks for hanging in there. Be encouraged. […] Keep inspiring me to do what I do. Love you all, I wish I could be with you, and I look forward to doing it again next year. God bless you.”
He also
announced
Grand Forks Air Force Base will serve as the home of the new Point Defense Battle Lab, which will play a pivotal role in countering the type of small drone warfare being instigated by adversaries.
In his remarks, he said Secretary of War Pete Hegseth issued a memo directing Pentagon leadership from around the world to establish Joint Interagency Task Force (JIATF) 401 to better align existing authorities and resources to rapidly deliver joint Counter-UAS capabilities to America’s warfighters. Cramer said the JIATF is “critical, it’s urgent, and it needs to happen quickly.” As chairman of the Senate Armed Services (SASC) Airland Subcommittee, he immediately started pitching North Dakota’s well-established expertise in this area.
“It was an easy sell,”
said Cramer.
“
[Air Combat Command] and the Air Force are looking closely at Grand Forks and are prepared to announce, if you haven’t heard it already, that Grand Forks Air Force Base is going to play a lead role. In fact, they’ll be the ACC Point Defense Battle Lab to support the Counter-UAS fielding and policy for the Department of Air Force installation defense initiatives. […] Grand Forks is now going to be at the epicenter, not surprising, again with the expertise that’s been developed there. […] It’s pretty cool to see us playing that leadership role in something that’s so relevant and so current right now.”
The ACC’s Point Defense Battle Lab will play a major part in the service’s efforts to develop and test advanced technologies to defend military installations from threats of UAS.
Tags:
Defense & Foreign Policy
Previous Article
Next Article
nav-mobile-modal
search-mobile-modal