Skip to content
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR SENATOR CRAMER'S WEEKLY NEWSLETTER
Skip to content
Senator Cramer Facebook
Senator Cramer Twitter
Senator Cramer Youtube
Senator Cramer Instagram
Senator Cramer Mail
News
Press
Senate Passes FY26 NDAA, Invests in National Security and North Dakota’s Defense Capabilities
October 09, 2025
Senate Passes FY26 NDAA, Invests in National Security and North Dakota’s Defense Capabilities
***Click
here
for audio.***
WASHINGTON, D.C. – By a vote of 77 to 20, the United States Senate passed the Fiscal Year (FY) 2026
National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)
, authorizing more than $900 billion in FY26 for defense-related initiatives. The annual bill accelerates the rebuilding of the United States’ arsenal of democracy by reforming the Pentagon’s budgeting and acquisition process to spur innovation, returning the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) to its warfighting mission, and increasing military readiness. Additionally, it strengthens military recruitment and improves service member quality of life, and more.
This year’s
NDAA
includes
bipartisan language, led by U.S. Senators Kevin Cramer (R-ND) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), expanding free credit monitoring for all service members and their families to also include non-active-duty reservists and traditional National Guard members. Eligibility was previously limited to active-duty service members and full-time National Guard members. The
NDAA
also includes the
Honoring Our Fallen Heroes Act
, authored by Cramer and U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar, which supports families of first responders who pass away from service-related cancer caused by carcinogen exposure.
Cramer, chair of the Senate Armed Services (SASC) Airland Subcommittee, celebrated the passage of the
NDAA
. Cramer is a steadfast advocate for modernization and is a founding co-chair of the Senate Space Force Caucus.
“As we face what I believe to be the most dangerous national security moment since World War II, this NDAA really recognizes the need to deter our adversaries. And to do that, we need to invest in our offensive capabilities and our innovation, and make generational reforms to the Pentagon, all the while staying focused on the mission at hand,”
said Cramer.
“This bill does that. Peace Through Strength isn’t just a bumper sticker, as I like to say. It’s a fundamental principle, and if we don’t shake up the status quo and accelerate modernization we’re going to lose. By passing this bill, we’re prioritizing the safety and security of the American people across the board. Thanks to Leader Thune and Chairman Wicker for getting this bill on the floor and getting it the time on the Senate floor it deserves. I really look forward to working with my colleagues in the House, President Trump, and his administration to rebuild what is, and always has been, and must always be the arsenal of democracy.”
The bill included several amendments Cramer supported, including language tightening restrictions on United States investments in China. Specifically, the measure authorizes the Secretary of Treasury to prohibit certain transactions and require notification of U.S. investment in sensitive technologies in China. In addition, the Secretary can impose sanctions on Chinese entities affiliated with the country’s military or intelligence sectors.
Through his role as a member of SASC, Cramer secured funding authorization and the inclusion of language supporting multiple North Dakota-based missions which improve national security. This
NDAA
will authorize the following projects across the state:
Cavalier Space Force Station (SFS)
“This NDAA supports the development of President Trump’s Golden Dome missile defense architecture by requiring the modernization of PARCS at Cavalier Space Force Station, making it more relevant than ever against today's threats. The bill puts the legislative muscle behind modernizing our missile defense infrastructure.”
This
NDAA
provides
$22 million
for modernizing the Perimeter Acquisition Radar Attack Characterization System (PARCS) at Cavalier SFS. PARCS tracks over half of all earth-orbiting objects. This funding will improve the single-faced, multi-function, UHF-Band, and phased-array radar system’s detection of intercontinental and sea-launched missile threats and space domain awareness capabilities.
Cavalier SFS will play a pivotal role in President Donald Trump’s Golden Dome layered missile defense shield for America, which calls for the modernization and expansion of U.S. missile defense capabilities across all domains to protect the homeland against ballistic, cruise and hypersonic missiles, and drone threats.
Cramer and U.S. Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK)
introduced
the bicameral
Ground and Orbital Launched Defeat of Emergent Nuclear Destruction and Other Missile Engagements (GOLDEN DOME) Act
, a sweeping legislative initiative which complements President Trump’s executive order
directing
the implementation of a next-generation missile defense shield for the nation.
Grand Forks
“With its RQ-4 Global Hawks and strategically important ISR capabilities, Grand Forks Air Force Base significantly contributes to the global engagement mission. This NDAA ensures our country sustains RQ-4 Global Hawk operations and secures funding for future satellite missions to be controlled in Grand Forks.”
This bill includes major investments in Grand Forks Air Force Base’s (GFAFB) intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities. Among other provisions, the bill ensures the base maintains inventory requirements of RQ-4 Global Hawks. Specifically, it provides
$17 million
for the development of corrosion resistant coatings produced by
Technology Applications Group
(TAG) in Grand Forks. TAG is a leader in magnesium surface protection and inventor of the Tanite anodize coating.
Additionally, the FY26
NDAA
designates
$277 million
for Tranche 3 of the Space Development Agency’s (SDA) Proliferated Warfighter Space Architecture. According to
SDA
, Tranche 3 satellites will “accelerate the capability to provide global, persistent indications, detection, warning, tracking, and identification of conventional and advanced missile threats, including hypersonic missile systems.” Cramer
visited
Vandenberg Space Force Base with Secretary of the Air Force Dr. Troy Meink and viewed 21 satellites from SDA’s Tranche 1 prior to their launch.
Minot
“As the only base to house two legs of the nuclear triad, Minot Air Force Base is the pinnacle of defensive capabilities, serving as a reminder to the nation and world of North Dakota’s exceptional deterrent capabilities. This NDAA ensures we strategically maintain the base’s long-range strike and land-based nuclear response capabilities against global adversaries while fulfilling our commitment to modernize our nuclear arsenal against future threats.”
The
NDAA
secures
$2 billion
for the Sentinel intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) program. The Sentinel ICBM, which will replace 50-year-old Minuteman IIIs, is a key component of the nation’s nuclear deterrence. This is in addition to the $2.5 billion investment included in the budget reconciliation bill, which was signed into law on July 4. The
NDAA
requires the ICBM count to be a minimum of 400 to adequately deter nuclear aggression.
Additionally, the legislation encourages the U.S. Air Force to establish wing-level additive manufacturing facilities to better support conventional and nuclear long-range strike platforms. The initiative improves readiness while decreasing cost and time of repair.
Fargo
“The Happy Hooligans’ military excellence and airborne ISR MQ-9 mission demonstrates the vital role they play in precision attacks both at home and abroad. My bill with Senator Rosen, the CARE for RPA Crews Act, creates a status identifier for Remotely Piloted Aircraft crews to support our service members and designates resources to keep them fit for duty.”
North Dakota’s “Happy Hooligans” in Fargo operate MQ-9 Reapers, which are central to the state’s growing role in operating Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA). The
NDAA
establishes a formal combat identifier to recognize the participation of RPA crew members who conduct operations in direct support of combat missions. This identification would enable the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to administer benefits and services for RPA combat-related service.
Cramer and U.S. Senator Jacky Rosen (D-NV)
introduced
the
Combat Action Recognition and Evaluation (CARE) for Remotely Piloted Aircraft (RPA) Crews Act
which ensures provides RPA crew members with the recognition and access to services they deserve.
North Dakota National Guard (NDNG)
“Our North Dakota National Guardsmen are the best of the best, providing key support defending the homeland and supporting the state and nation. The Jamestown National Guard Armory acts as a central facility for our Guardsmen to maintain their readiness and ensure they’re prepared for state and federal missions.”
The legislation authorizes
$5.2 million
for the planning and designing of an Armory in Jamestown. The planned project is a top priority of the NDNG.
Tags:
Defense & Foreign Policy
Previous Article
Next Article
nav-mobile-modal
search-mobile-modal