now we are going to send it out to the gop headquarters as well where my craypo, senator mike craypo, has taken the stage winning his fifth term in office. one and or who the next one is. oh, you are going to have to listen to me some personally. i will go on for a bit, but not too long. i learned a long time ago that the best speeches are the short ones. let me just say this. as we are, i know you are all watching it too on the screens, and you are seeing that there is an intense battle going on across this country. but people are speaking up to take back america. and i am confident that we are going to do so. i look forward for us to control both the house and the senate. and we will put on the president's desk the right kind of policies that this country needs. we will protect the constitution. we will protect the freedoms that our constitution enshrines. we will make certain that we develop the kind of economy that protects the right of all americans and the ability of all americans to build their own american dream instead of having the federal government try to take over and run it for them. and i am sorry to tell you this, but as soon as this election is over, we need to get engaged for the next one, because we have got to take back the presidency. and then return to the kind of strong, stable, healthy america that we had just before joe biden took office. and i will remind you what that was. now, you tell me when i got to stop, because you got me going on my speech now, dorothy. but remember, at the close of president trump's presidency when joe biden took office, inflation was 1.7 percent. that is under the 2 percent target for our country. the borders, in some places, were closed, and in the rest of the border was on its way to be closed. and we had forced mexico, guatemala, and the other countries who were the pathway into america at the southern border to take those who got to our border back into their countries. that has all been flipped. we need to change that. and by the way, as far as the price of gas when you go to the pumps, when this government was turned over to joe biden and this administration, we were an energy independent nation. we were, yes, we were developing and exporting more energy, more oil than we were importing. and today, because of president biden's war on oil and gas, we see the production somewhere between two and three million barrels a day, less than it was just two years ago. fellow republicans, i am going to wrap it up now. we are engaged in important fights. you are here because you are a part of that fight. thank you for being a part of it. and carry it on. we are going to win. thank you. senator mike craypo winning his fifth term as senator from the state of idaho. and there are 30 years now, it is amazing. and dr. witt, we heard his speech there. he hit all the big points that he is been talking about throughout his campaign. he did. yeah.