[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 48 (Tuesday, March 19, 2024)]
[House]
[Pages H1201-H1203]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
{time}  1600
CONDEMNING THE ILLEGAL ABDUCTION OF CHILDREN FROM UKRAINE TO THE
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and agree to
the resolution (H. Res. 149) condemning the illegal abduction of
children from Ukraine to the Russian Federation, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the resolution.
The text of the resolution is as follows:
H. Res. 149
Whereas, on January 12, 1951, the Convention on the
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide (commonly
known as the ``Genocide Convention''), of which the Russian
Federation is a party, came into effect;
Whereas, on February 24, 2022, the Russian Federation
escalated its eight-year-long occupation of sovereign
Ukrainian territory by launching an unprovoked large-scale
invasion of Ukraine;
Whereas, on March 9, 2022, Russian Forces attacked a
maternity hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, resulting in the
deaths of 5 individuals and injuries to 17 other individuals;
Whereas, on March 22, 2022, the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry
announced that the Russian military had illegally abducted
and forcibly transferred 2,389 Ukrainian children from
temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine;
Whereas, on June 2, 2022, Ukrainian President Volodymyr
Zelenskyy stated that 200,000 children are among the
Ukrainians who have been forcibly transferred to Russia;
Whereas forcibly transferring children of one group to
another group is a violation of Article II(e) of the Genocide
Convention;
Whereas Maria Lvova-Belova, Children's Rights Commissioner
for the President of Russia, admitted to abducting and
forcibly transferring Ukrainian children and facilitating
forced adoptions to Russian families;
Whereas Ukrainian authorities have stated that a number of
the abducted and forcibly transferred Ukrainian children have
families who remain in Ukraine, but have been separated due
to the renewed Russian invasion;
Whereas, on June 16, 2022, Russian authorities announced
that children born in occupied Ukrainian territories after
the February 24, 2022, invasion will be deemed Russian
citizens;
[[Page H1202]]
Whereas, on June 22, 2022, the United Nations Human Rights
Office of the High Commissioner verified that at least 320
children have been killed since Russia's renewed invasion
began;
Whereas, on July 11, 2022, United Nations Secretary General
Antonio Guterres ordered an investigation into the deaths and
injuries of Ukrainian children; and
Whereas, on July 13, 2022, Secretary of State Antony J.
Blinken issued a statement calling upon Russia to
``immediately halt its systemic filtration operations in
Ukraine'', which have caused the disappearance, detention, or
forcible deportation of between 900,000 and 1,600,000
Ukrainians (approximately 260,000 of whom are children): Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
(1) declares that the abduction and forcible transfer of
children and facilitation of illegal adoptions is contrary to
Russia's obligations under the Genocide Convention and
amounts to genocide;
(2) further declares that the Russian Federation is
attempting to wipe out a generation of Ukrainian children,
thereby crippling Ukraine's ability to nurture the next
generation of Ukrainian citizens and leaders and to rebuild
their country after Russia's unprovoked war, with the purpose
of demolishing Ukraine's unique language, culture, history,
and identity;
(3) notes with concern that the invasion of Ukraine by the
Russian Federation has significantly increased the risks of
children being exposed to human trafficking and exploitation,
child labor, gender-based violence, hunger, injury, trauma,
deprivation of education and shelter, and death; and
(4) holds the Government of the Russian Federation, under
the leadership of Vladimir Putin, responsible for the
wrongful and illegal abduction and forcible transfer of
children from Ukraine and officially condemns these actions
in the strongest terms.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Missouri (Mrs. Wagner) and the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms. Wild)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Missouri.
General Leave
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and
include extraneous material on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentlewoman from Missouri?
There was no objection.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, since the beginning of Russia's unprovoked war against
Ukraine, we continue to witness unspeakable acts perpetrated by
Vladimir Putin's forces. Since the start of the war, Ukrainian
officials estimate that over 120,000 war crimes have been committed by
lawless Russian invaders.
One of the most horrific acts being conducted by the Putin regime is
the kidnapping of Ukrainian children to Russia and occupied
territories. Since February 2022, more than 19,000 children have been
forcibly deported from their homeland--possibly many, many more.
Ukraine's Ambassador to the United Nations has stated that: ``Ukraine
has strong grounds to believe that several hundred thousand Ukrainian
children were forcibly, unlawfully taken.''
Not only have these children been kidnapped and handed over to
Russian families, but they have also been forced into pro-Russia
reeducation systems. They are being brainwashed, taught to hate their
home country and to love their oppressors, Russia.
Kidnapped Ukrainian children are being taught that Ukraine does not
exist as a sovereign country and that Russia is conducting some sort of
justified mission for mankind. Additionally, if they don't comply or
fall in line, these children face punishment and abuse.
Russia's depravity gets even more twisted, Mr. Speaker. There are
reports that kidnapped Ukrainian teenagers are being conscripted to
fight in Ukraine on behalf of the Russian Federation. Ukrainian
officials say Russia's efforts specifically target teenagers so that
they can be turned into soldiers once they reach the age of 18.
Vladimir Putin and his commissioner for children's rights, Maria
Lvova-Belova, can claim all they want that they are saving these
children, but we know their true intent--the complete eradication of
Ukrainian culture and identity.
Both U.S. statute and international law define genocide as acts
committed with intent to destroy a people, in whole or in part,
including forcibly transferring children of the group to another group.
I was proud to join my colleague from Pennsylvania, Representative
Wild, in introducing the resolution before us today. It rightfully
condemns this barbarism and calls it what it is: genocide. We were
there together on the Ukrainian border. We were there and saw Ukrainian
refugees and children who have suffered this kind of abuse at the hands
of Vladimir Putin.
Mr. Speaker, during our markup, this resolution received unanimous
bipartisan support from the Foreign Affairs Committee. Today, the
entire House has the opportunity and the moral duty to denounce
Russia's genocide against these children of Ukraine.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my good friend, Representative Wild, for
shedding light on these heartbreaking abuses.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of our colleagues to support this important
resolution, and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. WILD. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H. Res. 149. I introduced
this resolution on behalf of my district, which counts one of the
country's largest Ukrainian-American communities. Together, we have
advocated and organized for this moment, and I recognize my Ukrainian-
American constituents and all the extraordinary Ukrainian-American
leaders whose tireless efforts led to this legislation coming to the
floor of the House for a vote.
I also remember the time that Representative Wagner and I and a
couple of other members of the Foreign Affairs Committee stood right at
the border of Ukraine on the Poland side and watched as children and
mothers streamed across the border. It was tragic and really hard to
watch, but those were the fortunate children, as we have learned. Far
too many Ukrainian children have been abducted to Russia.
This vote is about sending an unequivocal message to Vladimir Putin
that we stand with the Ukrainian people and that we will not stop
working for justice and accountability when it comes to the atrocities
that Russian forces have systemically employed in this war of
aggression.
We must be clear. Russian forces have engaged in an effort to destroy
Ukraine's democracy, its sovereignty, its territorial integrity, and,
ultimately, its identity itself. Their crimes against children stand
out as the most heinous aspect of a much larger strategy, a relentless
campaign of state violence against the most vulnerable members of
Ukrainian society.
As part of this effort, Russian forces have abducted and forcibly
relocated thousands of Ukrainian children to Russian-occupied and
affiliated areas in blatant violation of Article II(e) of the Genocide
Convention.
The Russian objective is clear: to eradicate the young generations of
the Ukrainians by attempting to destroy their sense of national and
cultural identity. We cannot be silent in the face of these violations
of Ukrainians' most fundamental rights and dignity.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for
working to pass this legislation unanimously through the Foreign
Affairs Committee.
Finally, as meaningful as this vote is to me and my constituents, I
call on the leadership of this House to hold an even more consequential
vote. Mr. Speaker, the people's Representatives must be able to vote on
the Senate's supplemental package containing critical assistance for
Ukraine as well as humanitarian assistance for the people of Ukraine,
for the Palestinian people, and for so many other populations around
the world who are in dire need of assistance. We must come together in
support of this national and global priority.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to think about the Ukrainian
Americans across this country whose relatives in Ukraine are facing a
relentless campaign of aggression simply because of their unrelenting
quest for a democratic Ukrainian state.
We must stand with them. We must stand with the next generation of
Ukrainians and ensure that they are able to continue their proud
legacy.
As a people, Ukrainians have endured despite extraordinary hardship
experienced across generations. Today, they are fighting for their
future as a sovereign, independent democracy whose
[[Page H1203]]
freedom has been hard-won and is imperiled today.
Together, let us join in passing this resolution here on the floor of
the House of Representatives by a resounding bipartisan margin, and let
us work toward passing the assistance for the Ukrainian people that
they so urgently need.
Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this
resolution, and I yield back the balance of my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, Vladimir Putin's barbarism knows no bounds. The actions
of his lawless forces against the people of Ukraine, including the
forcible deportation of innocent Ukrainian children, constitute
genocide.
We have the opportunity to state that truth plainly today and to
stand with the grieving families of Ukraine whose children are still
kidnapped inside Russia.
Mr. Speaker, I urge unanimous support for this resolution, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the
gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. Wagner) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H. Res. 149, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further
proceedings on this motion will be postponed.
____________________