[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 4 (Thursday, January 7, 2016)]
[House]
[Pages H112-H113]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
OBAMA'S EXECUTIVE ACTION ON GUNS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. Westmoreland) for 5 minutes.
Mr. WESTMORELAND. Mr. Speaker, I want to start my time by quoting
directly the Second Amendment of our Constitution: ``A well regulated
militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of
the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.''
Aren't those beautiful and resounding words? As a man who likes to
keep it simple, I appreciate the Founding Fathers not only for their
foresight to protect the right to bear arms, but also how plain and
simple they made it.
The right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed
upon. Unfortunately, I think our Founding Fathers spoke too plainly for
certain people and certain Presidents to understand. That President may
always remind us that he taught constitutional law. Sadly, I have yet
to encounter someone in that position who disregards the Constitution
so regularly.
Not only does that President trample on the Second Amendment, but he
would also trample on Article I, which, as you know, is the Congress
and going through them to make laws. That President should have known
that regulations regarding buying guns must come from legislation, not
by an oral decree.
That President tried to legislate in the Senate several times, but
his colleagues refused to do it, even though there was a majority. Now
that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are not in the
majority in Congress, I am assuming that this administration is
deciding to create their own regulations--the Constitution be damned--
because, sadly, there are no checks and balances anymore.
We know even if Congress passes a bill to repeal any type of order
that any President makes, it would still have to go to that individual
for the bill to be signed. So what are the chances of putting together
a bill that some Congress may have seen as an inappropriate action and
then send it to the person that created that inappropriate action and
expect him to sign it?
I think, Mr. Speaker, one of the things that has so disappointed the
American people is the inability to have their Representatives voice
their complaints and do their legislative responsibility with an out-
of-control government. So each week, as the administration or a group
is intent on disregarding the Constitution, people become numb. The
American people become numb to these illegal actions.
I think it is time that we brought attention to some of these illegal
actions that some Presidents in the past and some Presidents in the
future may create. I think it is time that we bring these actions to
the attention of the American people and let them know what our
Founding Fathers had the intention to do originally, what they intended
the Constitution to mean, and how it was interpreted by those very
first legislators: President Washington, the Supreme Court, and others.
They took this document as a simple document. It was very plainly
written and read. But, unfortunately, we have had Supreme Courts,
Presidents, and legislative bodies that have tried to take these
simple, basic words and turn them into something that they could use
for their benefit, to try to change the way that this world works and
how the laws they make are applied to our citizens.
So, Mr. Speaker, we are going to try to do as much as we can in the
near future to try to bring this to the attention of the American
people and the world, because I think our Constitution
[[Page H113]]
has been a great cornerstone for this world and for any country that
wants to have a republic, a democracy, and a people-driven form of
government and to really feel that coat of liberty wrapped around them.
I think our Constitution is that.
So I think it is time for us not only to make the citizens aware, but
to make this whole world aware of what has been going on and what we
are going to do to stop it.
____________________