[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 18 (Monday, February 1, 2016)]
[House]
[Pages H387-H394]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
INTERNATIONAL MEGAN'S LAW TO PREVENT DEMAND FOR CHILD SEX TRAFFICKING
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and
concur in the Senate amendments to the bill (H.R. 515) to protect
children from exploitation, especially sex trafficking in tourism, by
providing advance notice of intended travel by registered child-sex
offenders outside the United States to the government of the country of
destination, requesting foreign governments to notify the United States
when a known child-sex offender is seeking to enter the United States,
and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the Senate amendments is as follows:
Senate amendments:
Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the
``International Megan's Law to Prevent Child Exploitation and
Other Sexual Crimes Through Advanced Notification of
Traveling Sex Offenders''.
(b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act
is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
Sec. 4. Angel Watch Center.
Sec. 5. Notification by the United States Marshals Service.
Sec. 6. International travel.
Sec. 7. Reciprocal notifications.
Sec. 8. Unique passport identifiers for covered sex offenders.
Sec. 9. Implementation plan.
Sec. 10. Technical assistance.
Sec. 11. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 12. Rule of construction.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Megan Nicole Kanka, who was 7 years old, was abducted,
sexually assaulted, and murdered in 1994, in the State of New
Jersey by a violent predator living across the street from
her home. Unbeknownst to Megan Kanka and her family, he had
been convicted previously of a sex offense against a child.
(2) In 1996, Congress adopted Megan's Law (Public Law 104-
145) as a means to encourage States to protect children by
identifying the whereabouts of sex offenders and providing
the means to monitor their activities.
(3) In 2006, Congress passed the Adam Walsh Child
Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) to
protect children and the public at large by establishing a
comprehensive national system for the registration and
notification to the public and law enforcement officers of
convicted sex offenders.
(4) Law enforcement reports indicate that known child-sex
offenders are traveling internationally.
(5) The commercial sexual exploitation of minors in child
sex trafficking and pornography is a global phenomenon. The
International Labour Organization has estimated that
1,8000,000 children worldwide are victims of child sex
trafficking and pornography each year.
(6) Child sex tourism, where an individual travels to a
foreign country and engages in sexual activity with a child
in that country, is a form of child exploitation and, where
commercial, child sex trafficking.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) Center.--The term ``Center'' means the Angel Watch
Center established pursuant to section 4(a).
(2) Convicted.--The term ``convicted'' has the meaning
given the term in section 111 of the Adam Walsh Child
Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16911).
(3) Covered sex offender.--Except as otherwise provided,
the term ``covered sex offender'' means an individual who is
a sex offender by reason of having been convicted of a sex
offense against a minor.
(4) Destination country.--The term ``destination country''
means a destination or transit country.
(5) Interpol.--The term ``INTERPOL'' means the
International Criminal Police Organization.
(6) Jurisdiction.--The term ``jurisdiction'' means--
(A) a State;
(B) the District of Columbia;
(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(D) Guam;
(E) American Samoa;
(F) the Northern Mariana Islands;
(G) the United States Virgin Islands; and
(H) to the extent provided in, and subject to the
requirements of, section 127 of the Adam Walsh Child
Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16927), a
Federally recognized Indian tribe.
(7) Minor.--The term ``minor'' means an individual who has
not attained the age of 18 years.
(8) National sex offender registry.--The term ``National
Sex Offender Registry'' means the National Sex Offender
Registry established by section 119 of the Adam Walsh Child
Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16919).
(9) Sex offender under sorna.--The term ``sex offender
under SORNA'' has the meaning given the term ``sex offender''
in section 111 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety
Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16911).
(10) Sex offense against a minor.--
(A) In general.--The term ``sex offense against a minor''
means a specified offense against a minor, as defined in
section 111 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act
of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16911).
(B) Other offenses.--The term ``sex offense against a
minor'' includes a sex offense described in section 111(5)(A)
of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42
U.S.C. 16911(5)(A)) that is a specified offense against a
minor, as defined in paragraph (7) of such section, or an
attempt or conspiracy to commit such an offense.
(C) Foreign convictions; offenses involving consensual
sexual conduct.--The limitations contained in subparagraphs
(B) and (C) of section 111(5) of the Adam Walsh Child
Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16911(5)) shall
apply with respect to a sex offense against a minor for
purposes of this Act to the same extent and in the same
manner as such limitations apply with respect to a sex
offense for purposes of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and
Safety Act of 2006.
SEC. 4. ANGEL WATCH CENTER.
(a) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall establish within the Child Exploitation
Investigations Unit of U.S. Immigrations and Customs
Enforcement a Center, to be known as the ``Angel Watch
Center'', to carry out the activities specified in subsection
(e).
(b) Incoming Notification.--
(1) In general.--The Center may receive incoming
notifications concerning individuals seeking to enter the
United States who have committed offenses of a sexual nature.
(2) Notification.--Upon receiving an incoming notification
under paragraph (1), the Center shall--
(A) immediately share all information received relating to
the individual with the Department of Justice; and
(B) share all relevant information relating to the
individual with other Federal, State, and local agencies and
entities, as appropriate.
(3) Collaboration.--The Secretary of Homeland Security
shall collaborate with the Attorney General to establish a
process for the receipt, dissemination, and categorization of
information relating to individuals and specific offenses
provided herein.
(c) Leadership.--The Center shall be headed by the
Assistant Secretary of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, in collaboration with the Commissioner of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection and in consultation with the
Attorney General and the Secretary of State.
(d) Members.--The Center shall consist of the following:
(1) The Assistant Secretary of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.
(2) The Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
(3) Individuals who are designated as analysts in U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement or U.S. Customs and
Border Protection.
[[Page H388]]
(4) Individuals who are designated as program managers in
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement or U.S. Customs and
Border Protection.
(e) Activities.--
(1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the Center
shall, using all relevant databases, systems and sources of
information, not later than 48 hours before scheduled
departure, or as soon as practicable before scheduled
departure--
(A) determine if individuals traveling abroad are listed on
the National Sex Offender Registry;
(B) review the United States Marshals Service's National
Sex Offender Targeting Center case management system or other
system that provides access to a list of individuals who have
provided advanced notice of international travel to identify
any individual who meets the criteria described in
subparagraph (A) and is not in a system reviewed pursuant to
this subparagraph; and
(C) provide a list of individuals identified under
subparagraph (B) to the United States Marshals Service's
National Sex Offender Targeting Center to determine
compliance with title I of the Adam Walsh Child Protection
and Safety Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16901 et seq.).
(2) Provision of information to center.--Twenty-four hours
before the intended travel, or thereafter, not later than 72
hours after the intended travel, the United States Marshals
Service's National Sex Offender Targeting Center shall
provide, to the Angel Watch Center, information pertaining to
any sex offender described in subparagraph (C) of paragraph
(1).
(3) Advance notice to destination country.--
(A) In general.--The Center may transmit relevant
information to the destination country about a sex offender
if--
(i) the individual is identified by a review conducted
under paragraph (1)(B) as having provided advanced notice of
international travel; or
(ii) after completing the activities described in paragraph
(1), the Center receives information pertaining to a sex
offender under paragraph (2).
(B) Exceptions.--The Center may immediately transmit
relevant information on a sex offender to the destination
country if--
(i) the Center becomes aware that a sex offender is
traveling outside of the United States within 24 hours of
intended travel, and simultaneously completes the activities
described in paragraph (1); or
(ii) the Center has not received a transmission pursuant to
paragraph (2), provided it is not more than 24 hours before
the intended travel.
(C) Corrections.--Upon receiving information that a
notification sent by the Center regarding an individual was
inaccurate, the Center shall immediately--
(i) send a notification of correction to the destination
country notified;
(ii) correct all data collected pursuant to paragraph (6);
and
(iii) if applicable, notify the Secretary of State for
purposes of the passport review and marking processes
described in section 240 of Public Law 110-457.
(D) Form.--The notification under this paragraph may be
transmitted through such means as are determined appropriate
by the Center, including through U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement attaches.
(4) Memorandum of agreement.--Not later than 6 months after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the
Attorney General to facilitate the activities of the Angel
Watch Center in collaboration with the United States Marshals
Service's National Sex Offender Targeting Center, including
the exchange of information, the sharing of personnel, access
to information and databases in accordance with paragraph
(1)(B), and the establishment of a process to share
notifications from the international community in accordance
with subsection (b)(1).
(5) Passport application review.--
(A) In general.--The Center shall provide a written
determination to the Department of State regarding the status
of an individual as a covered sex offender (as defined in
section 240 of Public Law 110-457) when appropriate.
(B) Effective date.--Subparagraph (A) shall take effect
upon certification by the Secretary of State, the Secretary
of Homeland Security, and the Attorney General that the
process developed and reported to the appropriate
congressional committees under section 9 has been
successfully implemented.
(6) Collection of data.--The Center shall collect all
relevant data, including--
(A) a record of each notification sent under paragraph (3);
(B) the response of the destination country to
notifications under paragraph (3), where available;
(C) any decision not to transmit a notification abroad, to
the extent practicable;
(D) the number of transmissions made under subparagraphs
(A),(B), and (C) of paragraph (3) and the countries to which
they are transmitted, respectively;
(E) whether the information was transmitted to the
destination country before scheduled commencement of sex
offender travel; and
(F) any other information deemed necessary and appropriate
by the Secretary of Homeland Security.
(7) Complaint review.--
(A) In general.--The Center shall--
(i) establish a mechanism to receive complaints from
individuals affected by erroneous notifications under this
section;
(ii) ensure that any complaint is promptly reviewed; and
(iii) in the case of a complaint that involves a
notification sent by another Federal Government entity,
notify the individual of the contact information for the
appropriate entity and forward the complaint to the
appropriate entity for prompt review and response pursuant to
this section.
(B) Response to complaints.--The Center shall, as
applicable--
(i) provide the individual with notification in writing
that the individual was erroneously subjected to
international notification;
(ii) take action to ensure that a notification or
information regarding the individual is not erroneously
transmitted to a destination country in the future; and
(iii) submit an additional written notification to the
individual explaining why a notification or information
regarding the individual was erroneously transmitted to the
destination country and describing the actions that the
Center has taken or is taking under clause (ii).
(C) Public awareness.--The Center shall make publicly
available information on how an individual may submit a
complaint under this section.
(D) Reporting requirement.--The Secretary of Homeland
Security shall submit an annual report to the appropriate
congressional committees (as defined in section 9) that
includes--
(i) the number of instances in which a notification or
information was erroneously transmitted to the destination
country of an individual under paragraph (3); and
(ii) the actions taken to prevent similar errors from
occurring in the future.
(8) Annual review process.--The Center shall establish, in
coordination with the Attorney General, the Secretary of
State, and INTERPOL, an annual review process to ensure that
there is appropriate coordination and collaboration,
including consistent procedures governing the activities
authorized under this Act, in carrying out this Act.
(9) Information required.--The Center shall make available
to the United States Marshals Service's National Sex Offender
Targeting Center information on travel by sex offenders in a
timely manner.
(f) Definition.--In this section, the term ``sex offender''
means--
(1) a covered sex offender; or
(2) an individual required to register under the sex
offender registration program of any jurisdiction or included
in the National Sex Offender Registry, on the basis of an
offense against a minor.
SEC. 5. NOTIFICATION BY THE UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE.
(a) In General.--The United States Marshals Service's
National Sex Offender Targeting Center may--
(1) transmit notification of international travel of a sex
offender to the destination country of the sex offender,
including to the visa-issuing agent or agents in the United
States of the country;
(2) share information relating to traveling sex offenders
with other Federal, State, local, and foreign agencies and
entities, as appropriate;
(3) receive incoming notifications concerning individuals
seeking to enter the United States who have committed
offenses of a sexual nature and shall share the information
received immediately with the Department of Homeland
Security; and
(4) perform such other functions at the Attorney General or
the Director of the United States Marshals Service may
direct.
(b) Consistent Notification.--In making notifications under
subsection (a)(1), the United States Marshals Service's
National Sex Offender Targeting Center shall, to the extent
feasible and appropriate, ensure that the destination country
is consistently notified in advance about sex offenders under
SORNA identified through their inclusion in sex offender
registries of jurisdictions or the National Sex Offender
Registry.
(c) Information Required.--For purposes of carrying out
this Act, the United States Marshals Service's National Sex
Offender Targeting Center shall--
(1) make the case management system or other system that
provides access to a list of individuals who have provided
advanced notice of international travel available to the
Angel Watch Center;
(2) provide the Angel Watch Center a determination of
compliance with title I of the Adam Walsh Child Protection
and Safety Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16901 et seq.) for the list
of individuals transmitted under section 4(e)(1)(C);
(3) make available to the Angel Watch Center information on
travel by sex offenders in a timely manner; and
(4) consult with the Department of State regarding
operation of the international notification program
authorized under this Act.
(d) Corrections.--Upon receiving information that a
notification sent by the United States Marshals Service's
National Sex Offender Targeting Center regarding an
individual was inaccurate, the United States Marshals
Service's National Sex Offender Targeting Center shall
immediately--
(1) send a notification of correction to the destination
country notified;
(2) correct all data collected in accordance with
subsection (f); and
(3) if applicable, send a notification of correction to the
Angel Watch Center.
(e) Form.--The notification under this section may be
transmitted through such means as are determined appropriate
by the United States Marshals Service's National Sex Offender
Targeting Center, including through the INTERPOL notification
system and through Federal Bureau of Investigation Legal
attaches.
(f) Collection of Data.--The Attorney General shall collect
all relevant data, including--
(1) a record of each notification sent under subsection
(a);
(2) the response of the destination country to
notifications under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a),
where available;
[[Page H389]]
(3) any decision not to transmit a notification abroad, to
the extent practicable;
(4) the number of transmissions made under paragraphs (1)
and (2) of subsection (a) and the countries to which they are
transmitted;
(5) whether the information was transmitted to the
destination country before scheduled commencement of sex
offender travel; and
(6) any other information deemed necessary and appropriate
by the Attorney General.
(g) Complaint Review.--
(1) In general.--The United States Marshals Service's
National Sex Offender Targeting Center shall--
(A) establish a mechanism to receive complaints from
individuals affected by erroneous notifications under this
section;
(B) ensure that any complaint is promptly reviewed; and
(C) in the case of a complaint that involves a notification
sent by another Federal Government entity, notify the
individual of the contact information for the appropriate
entity and forward the complaint to the appropriate entity
for prompt review and response pursuant to this section.
(2) Response to complaints.--The United States Marshals
Service's National Sex Offender Targeting Center shall, as
applicable--
(A) provide the individual with notification in writing
that the individual was erroneously subjected to
international notification;
(B) take action to ensure that a notification or
information regarding the individual is not erroneously
transmitted to a destination country in the future; and
(C) submit an additional written notification to the
individual explaining why a notification or information
regarding the individual was erroneously transmitted to the
destination country and describing the actions that the
United States Marshals Service's National Sex Offender
Targeting Center has taken or is taking under subparagraph
(B).
(3) Public awareness.--The United States Marshals Service's
National Sex Offender Targeting Center shall make publicly
available information on how an individual may submit a
complaint under this section.
(4) Reporting requirement.--The Attorney General shall
submit an annual report to the appropriate congressional
committees (as defined in section 9) that includes--
(A) the number of instances in which a notification or
information was erroneously transmitted to the destination
country of an individual under subsection (a); and
(B) the actions taken to prevent similar errors from
occurring in the future.
(h) Definition.--In this section, the term ``sex offender''
means--
(1) a sex offender under SORNA; or
(2) a person required to register under the sex offender
registration program of any jurisdiction or included in the
National Sex Offender Registry.
SEC. 6. INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL.
(a) Requirement That Sex Offenders Provide International
Travel Related Information To Sex Offender Registries.--
Section 114 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act
of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16914) is amended--
(1) in subsection (a)--
(A) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and;
(B) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
``(7) Information relating to intended travel of the sex
offender outside the United States, including any anticipated
dates and places of departure, arrival, or return, carrier
and flight numbers for air travel, destination country and
address or other contact information therein, means and
purpose of travel, and any other itinerary or other travel-
related information required by the Attorney General.''; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
``(c) Time and Manner.--A sex offender shall provide and
update information required under subsection (a), including
information relating to intended travel outside the United
States required under paragraph (7) of that subsection, in
conformity with any time and manner requirements prescribed
by the Attorney General.''.
(b) Conforming Amendments to Section 2250 of Title 18,
United States Code.--Section 2250 of title 18, United States
Code, is amended--
(1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections
(c) and (d), respectively;
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
``(b) International Travel Reporting Violations.--Whoever--
``(1) is required to register under the Sex Offender
Registration and Notification Act (42 U.S.C. 16901 et seq.);
``(2) knowingly fails to provide information required by
the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act relating
to intended travel in foreign commerce; and
``(3) engages or attempts to engage in the intended travel
in foreign commerce;
shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 10
years, or both.''; and
(3) in subsections (c) and (d), as redesignated, by
striking ``subsection (a)'' each place it appears and
inserting ``subsection (a) or (b)''.
(c) Implementation.--In carrying out this Act, and the
amendments made by this Act, the Attorney General may use the
resources and capacities of any appropriate agencies of the
Department of Justice, including the Office of Sex Offender
Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending, Registering, and
Tracking, the United States Marshals Service, INTERPOL
Washington-U.S. National Central Bureau, the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, the Criminal Division, and the United
States Attorneys' Offices.
SEC. 7. RECIPROCAL NOTIFICATIONS.
It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of
Homeland Security, should seek reciprocal international
agreements or arrangements to further the purposes of this
Act and the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act
(42 U.S.C. 16901 et seq.). Such agreements or arrangements
may establish mechanisms and undertakings to receive and
transmit notices concerning international travel by sex
offenders, through the Angel Watch Center, the INTERPOL
notification system, and such other means as may be
appropriate, including notification by the United States to
other countries relating to the travel of sex offenders from
the United States, reciprocal notification by other countries
to the United States relating to the travel of sex offenders
to the United States, and mechanisms to correct and, as
applicable, remove from any other records, any inaccurate
information transmitted through such notifications.
SEC. 8. UNIQUE PASSPORT IDENTIFIERS FOR COVERED SEX
OFFENDERS.
(a) Amendment to Public Law 110-457.--Title II of Public
Law 110-457 is amended by adding at the end the following:
``SEC. 240. UNIQUE PASSPORT IDENTIFIERS FOR COVERED SEX
OFFENDERS.
``(a) In General.--Immediately after receiving a written
determination from the Angel Watch Center that an individual
is a covered sex offender, through the process developed for
that purpose under section 9 of the International Megan's Law
to Prevent Child Exploitation and Other Sexual Crimes Through
Advanced Notification of Traveling Sex Offenders, the
Secretary of State shall take appropriate action under
subsection (b).
``(b) Authority To Use Unique Passport Identifiers.--
``(1) In general.--Except as provided under paragraph (2),
the Secretary of State shall not issue a passport to a
covered sex offender unless the passport contains a unique
identifier, and may revoke a passport previously issued
without such an identifier of a covered sex offender.
``(2) Authority to reissue.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1),
the Secretary of State may reissue a passport that does not
include a unique identifier if an individual described in
subsection (a) reapplies for a passport and the Angel Watch
Center provides a written determination, through the process
developed for that purpose under section 9 of the
International Megan's Law to Prevent Child Exploitation and
Other Sexual Crimes Through Advanced Notification of
Traveling Sex Offenders, to the Secretary of State that the
individual is no longer required to register as a covered sex
offender.
``(c) Defined Terms.--In this section--
``(1) the term `covered sex offender' means an individual
who--
``(A) is a sex offender, as defined in section 4(f) of the
International Megan's Law to Prevent Child Exploitation and
Other Sexual Crimes Through Advanced Notification of
Traveling Sex Offenders; and
``(B) is currently required to register under the sex
offender registration program of any jurisdiction;
``(2) the term `unique identifier' means any visual
designation affixed to a conspicuous location on the passport
indicating that the individual is a covered sex offender; and
``(3) the term `passport' means a passport book or passport
card.
``(d) Prohibition.--The Secretary of State, the Secretary
of Homeland Security, and the Attorney General, and their
agencies, officers, employees, and agents, shall not be
liable to any person for any action taken under this section.
``(e) Disclosure.--In furtherance of this section, the
Secretary of State may require a passport applicant to
disclose that they are a registered sex offender.
``(f) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect upon
certification by the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, and the Attorney General, that the process
developed and reported to the appropriate congressional
committees under section 9 of the International Megan's Law
to Prevent Child Exploitation and Other Sexual Crimes Through
Advanced Notification of Traveling Sex Offenders has been
successfully implemented.''.
SEC. 9. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.
(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
the Secretary of State, and the Attorney General shall
develop a process by which to implement section 4(e)(5) and
the provisions of section 240 of Public Law 110-457, as added
by section 8 of this Act.
(b) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than 90 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland
Security, the Secretary of State, and the Attorney General
shall jointly submit a report to, and shall consult with, the
appropriate congressional committees on the process developed
under subsection (a), which shall include a description of
the proposed process and a timeline and plan for
implementation of that process, and shall identify the
resources required to effectively implement that process.
(c) ``Appropriate Congressional Committees'' Defined.--In
this section, the term ``appropriate congressional
committees'' means--
(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
(2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of
Representatives;
(3) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs of the Senate;
(4) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of
Representatives;
(5) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
[[Page H390]]
(6) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of
Representatives;
(7) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(8) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives.
SEC. 10. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Attorney
General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, may provide
technical assistance to foreign authorities in order to
enable such authorities to participate more effectively in
the notification program system established under this Act.
SEC. 11. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this
Act $6,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 and 2018.
SEC. 12. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to limit
international information sharing or law enforcement
cooperation relating to any person pursuant to any authority
of the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland
Security, or any other department or agency.
Amend the title so as to read: ``An Act to protect children
and others from sexual abuse and exploitation, including sex
trafficking and sex tourism, by providing advance notice of
intended travel by registered sex offenders outside the
United States to the government of the country of
destination, requesting foreign governments to notify the
United States when a known sex offender is seeking to enter
the United States, and for other purposes.''.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. Smith) and the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Brendan F.
Boyle) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New Jersey.
General Leave
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their
remarks and to include extraneous materials on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, child predators thrive on secrecy, a secrecy that allows
them to commit heinous crimes against the weakest and most vulnerable.
Today the House has under consideration H.R. 515, the International
Megan's Law to Prevent Child Exploitation and Other Sexual Crimes
Through Advanced Notification of Traveling Sex Offenders, a law that
will significantly thwart child sexual exploitation in the United
States and abroad through a comprehensive and efficient system that
warns law enforcement of traveling sex offenders.
Mr. Speaker, I first introduced International Megan's Law back in
2008. It has passed the House three times--2010, 2014, 2015--and,
thankfully, passed the United States Senate in December.
International Megan's Law honors the memory of Megan Kanka, a
precious little girl from my hometown of Hamilton who suffered and died
at the hands of a sexual predator. Megan was just 7 years old when she
was kidnapped, raped, and brutally murdered in 1994. Her assailant
lived across the street. Unbeknownst to her family and other residents
in the neighborhood, he was a convicted repeat sex offender.
Due to the extraordinary work by Megan's courageous parents, Maureen
and Richard Kanka, the New Jersey State Legislature passed and the
Governor signed the original Megan's Law in 1994 and expanded it in
2001. It requires registration and public notification of convicted sex
offenders living in the community.
Today all 50 States and all U.S. territories have a Megan's Law.
Because of this law, parents, guardians, universities, school
officials, sports coaches, law enforcement, and the public at large are
now empowered with the critical information they need to mitigate harm
to children.
We know from law enforcement and media documentation that Americans
on the U.S. sex offender registries are caught sexually abusing
children in Asia, Central and South America, Europe, and, frankly,
everywhere.
A deeply disturbing 2010 report by the GAO found that at least 4,500
U.S. passports were issued to registered sex offenders in fiscal year
2008 alone. Typically, Mr. Speaker, a passport is valid for 10 years,
meaning some or many of the tens of thousands of registered sex
offenders possessing passports may be on the prowl internationally
looking to exploit and abuse.
Ernie Allen, who served for 30 years as the president and CEO of the
Center for Missing and Exploited Children and the International Centre
for Missing and Exploited Children, recently said: ``It is clear that
there is a substantial category of offenders who do not offend as a
lapse of judgment; they do it as a lifestyle. And these are the
offenders who are most likely to travel to seek victims in places where
the offender is most likely to be anonymous and most likely to avoid
identification and apprehension.''
Studies suggest and demonstrate that even when caught, prosecuted,
and jailed, for a number of predators, the propensity to recommit these
crimes at a later date remains. For example, a 2008 study by Oliver,
Wong, and Nicholaichuk showed that untreated sex offenders were
reconvicted for sexual crimes at a rate of 17.7 percent after 3 years,
24.5 percent after 5 years, and 32 percent after 10 years. Keep in
mind, Mr. Speaker, that these are just the rates for those who were
caught again and then convicted.
Pedophiles and other sexual predators often harm more than one
victim. There are different studies that showed large numbers of child
victims and large numbers of acts committed against those children. For
every victim who reports, there are likely many others who could not,
would not, and cannot come forward.
Mr. Speaker, some of those exploited children are prostituted by
human traffickers to pedophiles. The International Labour Organization
has estimated that 1.8 million children are victims of commercial
sexual exploitation around the world each year.
It is imperative that we take the lessons learned on how to protect
our children from known child sex predators within our borders and
expand those protections globally to prevent convicted U.S. sex
offenders from harming children abroad. It is imperative that we teach
other countries how to establish their own Megan's Law and push other
countries to warn us in the United States when their sex offenders are
traveling here.
Specifically, H.R. 515 will authorize and empower the Angel Watch
Center, operating under the auspices of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, to check flight manifests against sex offender registries
and quickly warn destination countries when sex offenders are headed
their way.
The Angel Watch Center is authorized to send actual information about
child sex offender travel to destination countries in a timely fashion
for those countries to assess the potential damage and dangers to their
kids and to respond appropriately, whether it is to deny entry or visa,
monitor travel, or limit travel.
To prevent offenders from thwarting International Megan's Law
notification procedures by country hopping to an alternative
destination not previously disclosed, H.R. 515 includes provisions for
the State Department to develop a passport identifier or, as we put it
in the bill, ``any visual designation affixed to a conspicuous location
on the passport indicating that the individual is a covered sex
offender.'' A passport, Mr. Speaker, so identified provides law
enforcement and Customs an additional tool to protect children.
The passport identifier is only for those who have been found guilty
of a sex crime involving a child and have been deemed dangerous enough
to be listed on a public sex offender registry. When this information
is no longer public knowledge in the United States--in other words,
they are off the registry--the passport identifier, in like manner,
will no longer be required.
It is worth noting that some States already require sex offenders to
have their status listed on their driver's licenses--Alabama, Florida,
Delaware, and Louisiana, to name a few. Ironically, it has been
reported that some registered sex offenders have used their passports
as an ID in order to keep their status secret.
{time}  1630
Mr. Speaker, in order to protect potential victims, H.R. 515 also
aims to establish a durable system of reciprocity among the nations of
the world. International Megan's Law directs the Secretary of State to
seek agreements with other countries so that the U.S. is notified in
advance of incoming sex offenders.
[[Page H391]]
I would like to offer my profound appreciation, Mr. Speaker, to
Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy for his deep and abiding commitment to
combating human trafficking in all of its ugly manifestations, for
scheduling the House vote 12 months ago on International Megan's Law
and another dozen or so anti-human trafficking measures sponsored by
Members from both sides of the aisle.
That was historic and had never been done like that before. So I
thank him for that leadership and for working closely with the Senate
in order to help bring this bill to fruition.
His policy adviser, Emily Murry, was remarkable, as was and is Kelly
Dixon.
I would like to thank our distinguished chairman of the Foreign
Affairs Committee, Ed Royce, and Ranking Member Eliot Engel for their
strong support for this bill and for the assistance of Jessica Kelch,
Doug Anderson, and Janice Kaguyutan.
Janice will remember. She traveled with one of my staffers years ago
investigating this terrible issue, which is a global scourge.
Senator Bob Corker, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee on
the Senate side, truly made this bill a priority and carried it over
the finish line in the Senate. Thank you, Senator. Thank you, Mr.
Chairman, for that.
His professional staff, Caleb McCarry and Counsel Sarah Ramig, showed
remarkable dedication and persistence through multiple interagency
negotiations.
His chief of staff, Todd Womack, and legislative director, Rob
Strayer, skillfully guided the bill through the process on the Senate
side, and I can't thank them enough.
I also want to thank my good friend Ben Cardin--Ben and I serve and
have served for decades on the Helsinki Commission--for his support and
for his efforts.
I am grateful to Senator Richard Shelby and Senator Barbara Mikulski
for their assistance and driving better Angel Watch Center
collaboration with the U.S. Marshals Service's Sex Offender Targeting
Center.
USMS will be required to vet names sent out by the Angel Watch Center
and share previously vetted names with the Center in order to maximize
expertise, avoid duplication of efforts, and ensure accuracy of
international notifications.
I would note that Senator Shelby also championed the passport
provisions that will ensure sex offenders with crimes against children
cannot end-run the system.
I would like to thank his professional staffer, Shannon Hines, who
was extraordinarily smart and creative during this process.
Thanks to professional staffer Jen Deci as well as Senator Mikulski's
staffer, Jennifer Eskra, for their tireless work as well.
Senator John Cornyn, majority leader, did not rest on his success
earlier this year in navigating the Justice for Victims of Trafficking
Act through the Senate, but persisted until International Megan's Law
was complete over on the Senate side.
Last, but not least, I would like to thank my chief of staff, Mary
Noonan, who has been tenacious in guiding this bill past obstacle after
obstacle, and Allison Hollabaugh, who worked energetically,
effectively, and expertly with the agencies and other interested
parties to achieve the final bill.
I also would like to thank my former top Foreign Affairs Committee
staff member, Sheri Rickert, who spent countless hours over several
years negotiating with disparate parties trying to achieve passage of
the bill. Those efforts, Sheri, were not in vain.
I would like to thank the National Center for Missing and Exploited
Children for their strong endorsement of the bill, the International
Centre for Missing and Exploited Children, ECPAT-USA, and the Family
Research Council, for their input, counsel, and strong support.
I again first introduced this bill in 2008, alongside Megan Kanka's
parents, Maureen and Richard Kanka. Maureen and Richard, Mr. Speaker,
are heroic people. They have fought for decades to spare children and
their families from horrific crimes that can and must be prevented.
While they still carry deep emotional and psychological scars,
Maureen and Richard's selflessness, love of others, and vision have
protected countless children from harm.
Enactment of International Megan's Law will expand meaningful child
protection at home and around the world, and I urge my colleagues to
support it.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as
much time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this measure.
Let me first thank the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith) for his
leadership on human rights and anti-trafficking issues and for his hard
work on International Megan's Law.
I also want to thank the Judiciary Committee for its bipartisan input
on this bill. This legislation is the product of a lot of hard work and
reflects a commitment to advancing practical and effective ways to help
those victimized by sexual predators.
This is hard to believe, but around the world today there are tens of
millions of victims of human trafficking, which is what we call modern-
day slavery. Many of these victims are children exploited in
prostitution.
In many countries, extreme poverty and gaps in law enforcement create
zones of impunity where sex offenders exploit vulnerable children.
Sometimes local officials have no idea this is going on. Sometimes they
turn a blind eye, and sometimes officials are even complicit in this
crime.
We have a responsibility to protect all victims and to crack down on
this crime that destabilizes communities, fuels corruption, and
undermines the rule of law.
International Megan's Law aims to prevent child sex offenders and
traffickers from exploiting vulnerable children when they cross an
international border.
This bill would establish an Angel Watch Center within ICE--
Immigration and Customs Enforcement--and provide advance notice to
foreign governments when a convicted child sex offender travels to
their country.
This bill will hopefully prevent some of these horrific crimes from
taking place.
But, Mr. Speaker, fighting modern slavery requires a much more
comprehensive response. Beyond prevention, governments must do all they
can to protect victims: robust identification efforts; policies and
procedures that get victims out of harm's way; comprehensive support
services that include physical and mental health care; education
opportunities; legal assistance; reintegration with family and
community; and, of course, aggressive investigations and prosecutions
to go after those responsible for such heinous crimes.
The reality is, the sad reality, is that no single government or
single law will put an end to human trafficking. But every step we take
strengthens our ability to prevent these crimes, protect victims, and
punish those responsible.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the Senate amendment to
H.R. 515.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from North Carolina, (Mr. Pittenger), a member of the
Financial Services Committee who has been very active in the fight
against human trafficking.
Mr. PITTENGER. Chairman Smith, thank you so much for your leadership
on behalf of these individuals.
Thank you, Chairman Royce, for your strong leadership as well.
Mr. Speaker, right now more than 20 million people worldwide are
caught up in modern-day slavery. We call it human trafficking.
This isn't just a problem over there. In the city I represent--
Charlotte--Maria was trapped when she answered an ad for an aspiring
actress. Rosa was snatched from a local gas station while waiting for a
ride.
My good friend, Antonia Childs, dreamed of owning a bakery before
falling victim to human trafficking. Thankfully, Antonia was rescued
and now leads a vital Charlotte organization rescuing women, including
Maria and Rosa.
As a Nation, we must take responsibility for our part in this
horrific, multi-billion-dollar illicit industry. As Members of
Congress, we must take an active role in ending human trafficking
worldwide.
That is why, on January 22, 2015, I became an original cosponsor in
support
[[Page H392]]
of Chairman Smith's H.R. 515, the International Megan's Law to Prevent
Child Exploitation.
H.R. 515 ensures foreign countries are notified when an American sex
offender who has previously abused children is traveling to that
country. It encourages foreign countries to provide us with the same
vital information when a sex offender is traveling to America.
It attacks the sickening practice of child sex tourism by requiring
the United States to notify other countries when convicted pedophiles
travel abroad.
It encourages President Obama to use bilateral agreements and
assistance to establish reciprocal notification so that we will know
when convicted child offenders are coming here.
International Megan's Law takes valuable lessons we have learned
about protecting our children here in the United States and expands
those protections globally so all communities can join together to take
the necessary steps to protect our children.
Please join me in taking this important step to end modern slavery
today.
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I have no further
speakers on our side. I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from California (Mr. Royce), the distinguished chairman of
the House Committee on Foreign Affairs.
Mr. ROYCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 515, the
International Megan's Law, focused on preventing demand for child sex
trafficking.
I really want to acknowledge the hard work by the Member from New
Jersey (Mr. Smith), his perseverance here as the bill's author, as he
has tried on several occasions to get this through the Senate and to
the President's desk. With this action today, this bill, when it passes
the floor, will go to the President's desk.
I think it is very important that we understand the magnitude of this
problem, as he has tried to convey to us here, and how this is going to
strengthen the hand of law enforcement.
We want law enforcement to consider this a new tool. It will combat
the appalling industry of child sex tourism, in which adults travel
overseas to exploit children in other countries.
My chief of staff, Amy Porter, has gone on several humanitarian
missions to work with very young children in Cambodia and elsewhere in
South Asia as well. As she shows you the photographs of these little
girls exploited and traumatized by this predatory activity, it is hard
to fathom that men from around the world, including America, including
our country, engage in this predatory activity.
While the countries they travel to lack the resources needed to deal
with this rising number of child predators, this legislation is going
to help us offset that.
One of the most discouraging things that my chief of staff, Amy,
found was that, in Cambodia, it was the local police chief who himself
was involved in the practice.
Now, upon her return to again check on this, she found that they had
put an end to that. He was no longer in this trade, in this type of
business. It had been cleaned up some with pressure from the United
States, but it is still ongoing. So this will help us fight back.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Collins of New York). The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. I yield the gentleman 1 minute.
Mr. ROYCE. At present, multiple U.S. Government agencies are working
to combat human trafficking and child sex tourism, but there has been a
troubling lack of coordination and information sharing and
notifications to foreign countries that a potential sexual criminal is
heading their way, and those notifications are very inconsistent.
This bill clarifies the responsibility, puts it on the Justice
Department and the Department of Homeland Security. It better
coordinates those efforts. And, importantly, by proactively helping
other countries to identify those incoming child predators, we will
encourage them to alert us when foreigners convicted of sex offenses
against children attempt to enter into the United States.
{time}  1645
So I commend Chairman Smith for his work on this bipartisan
legislation, and I encourage all Members to support its passage. It
will be on the President's desk here after our action this evening.
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute
to the gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. Wagner).
Mrs. WAGNER. I thank the gentlemen for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 515, the
International Megan's Law to Prevent Demand for Child Sex Trafficking.
I would like to thank, like so many have, Congressman Chris Smith for
introducing this important legislation to protect innocent children
from the evils of sexual predators in the United States and worldwide.
As a mother who raised three beautiful children, I can tell you that
the constant concern for their safety and protection never goes away.
When they were young, I worried if they were safe at the playground
down the street, if they were safe at the shopping mall or movie
theater.
Named after a young girl who was kidnapped, raped, and murdered at
just 7 years old by her neighbor, Megan's Law and public knowledge of
predators in our communities have been critical tools in protecting our
children and easing some of the many fears that parents feel every
single day.
I cannot fathom the anger and anguish felt by Megan's parents and all
parents whose children fall prey to such sick predators. I would do
anything to protect my children and all children from sexual predators,
and I feel blessed that I and my colleagues are in a position where we
can make a difference.
We will be able to better identify and scrutinize sex offenders'
activity, ensuring that they do not engage in the ghastly practice of
sex tourism either in our own neighborhood or any neighborhood around
the world.
The U.S. must take a leading role as a global defender of children
from sexual abuse. Often planning their trips around locations where
the most vulnerable children can be found, sex offenders should not be
allowed to use the anonymity provided by foreign travel to help hide
their hideous crimes.
A 2010 Government Accountability Office report showed that in a
single year, at least 4,500 registered sex offenders received U.S.
passports to travel internationally. This is absolutely unacceptable,
Mr. Speaker.
During my time as a United States ambassador, I was exposed firsthand
to the horrors of sexual abuse and human trafficking on the
international level.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I yield the
gentlewoman from Missouri an additional 1 minute.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, as elected Members of Congress, we must
stand up for the powerless, and we must provide a voice for the
voiceless. Today we are doing just that.
Passing the International Megan's Law, which will provide advance
notice of foreign travel by registered sex offenders, is critical. We
owe it to the innocent angels like Megan to take these crimes out of
the shadows and do everything we can to prevent future crime both in
the United States and across the globe.
Today I will vote to pass the International Megan's Law, and I
encourage my colleagues to join me in providing protection for
potential victims worldwide and greater peace of mind for those who
love them.
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Mr. Speaker, I just want to say this is a bipartisan bill. It will
save children's lives. It will prevent other crimes to victims like
Megan Kanka from happening not just in the United States but around the
world.
I think my good friend, Ann Wagner, said a moment ago that Megan is
an angel. Her parents are guardian angels. They have taken a pain, an
agony, and a trauma that is incomprehensible and have worked tirelessly
to get Megan's
[[Page H393]]
Law enacted throughout the United States and in some other countries.
This will take it to the next level and will establish that true
reciprocal reciprocity regimen, whereby we notice, they notice,
everybody knows what is going on to take the secrecy out of this travel
when a convicted pedophile hops on a plane with the idea of exploiting
children.
This will have a very measurable impact and will protect children
from this kind of agony.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania. Mr. Speaker, to conclude, I
second the comments that were made by Mr. Smith. I congratulate the
family of Megan Kanka. Being a father myself of a 2-year-old daughter,
I can't imagine losing a little girl, especially in the heinous way
that they did.
I remember very much when all of that happened. Hamilton, New Jersey,
is only about 40 minutes up the road from where I live in Philadelphia,
and I remember the ugly incident very well. The fact that here we are,
so many years later, and the family still continues to fight for other
little girls and little boys is really remarkable and is a testament to
them.
I also congratulate the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith), who I
know has worked tirelessly on this bill for a long period of time.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues to support this piece of
legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 515,
International Megan's Law. While I support the underlying goal of
ensuring that American law enforcement agencies share information on
potential child sex offenders with foreign law enforcement agencies, I
am opposed to how one particular provision, added in the Senate
amendment before us today, would work in practice.
Other existing provisions of the bill already contain the following
information-sharing requirements with and among law enforcement
agencies here in the United States and abroad:
U.S. sex offenders are required to provide international travel-
related information to the sex offender registries;
the Department of Homeland Security is required to create the Angel
Watch Center to receive information on individuals seeking to enter the
U.S. who have committed offenses of a sexual nature as well as
registered sex offenders seeking to travel outside the U.S. in order to
share all relevant information to federal, state, and local law
enforcement officials;
the U.S. Marshal's Service is required to notify law enforcement
agencies of sex offenders seeking to leave the United States who have
not transmitted their travel information to sex offender registries;
the U.S. Marshal's Service is required to notify the international
destination country of a sex offender's upcoming travel; and
the Secretary of State should seek reciprocal international
agreements or arrangements to further these goals.
If our goal is to ensure that customs and border as well as law
enforcement officials are notified so that they may track and
investigate those sex offenders who may be engaging in sex tourism or
pose a threat of absconding, these provisions have addressed those
concerns.
As a result, I am skeptical of what more we stand to gain by the
Senate amendment's provision authorizing the Secretary of State to use
a ``unique passport identifier for covered sex offenders'' that is
defined as ``any visual designation affixed to a conspicuous location
on the passport indicating the individual is a covered sex offender.''
At best, if this vague language is meant to describe some sort of code
or symbol embedded in the passport that is only discernible by law
enforcement at the border indicating that the traveler is a sex
offender, it is redundant given the other information-sharing mandated
by the bill's other provisions. However, if this is interpreted to mean
something akin to the words ``sex offender'' stamped on the
identification page of the passport, this raises serious problems and
will lead to unintended consequences.
First, it is simply bad policy to single out one category of offenses
for this type of treatment. We do not subject those who murder, who
defraud the government or our fellow citizens of millions and billions,
or who commit acts of terrorism to these restrictions.
Second, by treating all sexual offenders as one monolithic group
ignores reality. While some pose a continued and real risk of
reoffending and may be traveling to engage in sex tourism or other
illicit acts, not all pose the same risk. Indeed, the failure of this
provision to allow for the individualized consideration of the facts
and circumstances surrounding the traveler's criminal history,
including how much time has elapsed since his last offense, underscores
how this provision is overbroad. Details such as whether the traveler
is a serial child rapist versus someone with a decades-old conviction
from when he was 19-years-old and his girlfriend was 14, just missing
the Romeo and Juliet exception by one year, are significant and would
allow law enforcement to more appropriately prioritize their finite
resources.
Third, a traveler does not have any recourse with the foreign
destination country if he or she is refused entry solely on the basis
of this ``unique passport identifier.'' While the bill has some due
process provisions, those apply only domestically. There is no recourse
if a traveler is erroneously denied entry from the destination country.
Fourth, if the ``unique passport identifier'' is implemented in a way
that makes it obvious to not only law enforcement officials but any
member of the general public viewing the passport, this could lead to
unintended consequences of persecution and harm to the traveler. This
is especially troubling given that no factual context about the offense
is provided.
If our goal is to ensure that domestic and foreign law enforcement
and customs officials are notified of potential threats, multiple
existing provisions of the bill already achieve that goal without
raising these problematic implementation and fairness concerns.
In summary, while I support the underlying goal of ensuring that
American law enforcement agencies share information on potential child
sex offenders with foreign law enforcement agencies, I have grave
concerns about how the redundant and problematic provision regarding
the ``unique passport identifier'', added as a Senate amendment, would
work in practice. Therefore, I urge my colleagues to oppose the
underlying bill.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I stand in strong support of H.R. 515
because it seeks to protect our children from predators by identifying
the whereabouts of sex offenders and providing means to monitor their
activities.
This legislation is important because sex trafficking of children is
a displaceable act that we detest and has been an on-going concern for
the United States.
In addition to protecting our children from national threats, we must
also consider the potential threat from international actors,
especially during times of increased tourism, like for example the
Super Bowl, FIFA World Cup, World Olympics and other major events
around the world where tourism is high.
This legislation by my friend Representative Smith aims to protect
our children from exploitation, specifically sex trafficking in
tourism, by providing advance notice of intended travel by registered
child-sex offenders outside of the United States to the government of
the destination country.
This legislation is important because it requests that foreign
governments notify the United States when a known child-sex offender is
seeking to enter the United States.
International child exploitation is increasingly becoming a top
priority for all nations and certainly is for our country.
For instance, two years ago, during the FIFA World Cup in Brazil,
reports of child exploitation received global attention.
According to the Department of State, Brazil is a destination country
for children subjected to sex trafficking.
For the case of Brazil, child sex tourists typically arrive from
Europe and North America.
According to reports, the Rio de Janeiro civil police identified
eight hotels and restaurants involved in a child sexual exploitation
network in two city areas.
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, as you know, is where the World Olympics will
be hosted this summer.
According to the Huffington Post, major sporting event usually lead
to a spike in the demand for sexual predatory activities.
Unfortunately, these accounts of sexual predatory activity include
child sex trafficking.
Here at home, during the 2014 Super Bowl week, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, along with 50 law enforcement agencies, recovered 16
teenagers during an enforcement action on child sex trafficking.
Additionally, more than 45 pimps were arrested, some of whom claimed
to travel to the Super Bowl location specifically for the purpose of
prostituting women and children at the sporting event.
According to Judy Kluger, Director of Sanctuary for Families, and
former judge for New York City Criminal Court of New York County, New
York, ``the Super Bowl could never not be breeding grounds for sexual
exploitation.''
If a location experiences an exponential increase in large numbers of
men travelling for entertainment, it will proportionally see an
increase in those who purchase sex.
As you all know, I am committed to ensuring the protection of
children, always championing the protection of children.
As co-chair of the Children's Caucus, I commend the work of all my
colleagues here in Congress, dedicated to protecting children here in
the U.S. and across the globe.
[[Page H394]]
This is why I support this legislation and I commend Representative
Smith for championing legislative measures dedicated to the safety and
protection of our children worldwide.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. Smith) that the House suspend the rules
and concur in the Senate amendments to the bill, H.R. 515.
The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the Senate amendments were concurred in.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
____________________