Home
Newsroom
Press Releases
November 18, 2025
Warren, Murphy Investigate Ethics Conflicts Related to Trump’s Envoy to the Middle East
Steve Witkoff reportedly brokered a trade deal with UAE that led to $2 billion dollar investment in World Liberty Fund, which Witkoff co-owns with Trump family
White House ethics officials have not approved Witkoff’s ethics forms despite his working since the beginning of this Administration
Text of Letter (PDF)
Washington, D.C. —
U.S. Senators Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) announced a continuation of Senator Warren’s investigation today and wrote to The White House and Office of Government Ethics (OGE) pushing for answers about inconsistencies in the ethics disclosure forms of Steve Witkoff, U.S. Special Envoy to the Middle East, and concerns related to a deal that gives the United Arab Emirates (UAE) enormous power to acquire U.S.-made A.I. chips.
The new letter continuing the investigation is vital “[g]iven the sensitive nature of Mr. Witkoff’s role and the scale of his conflicts.”
Before his appointment to the role of Special Envoy, Witkoff partnered with the Trump family to launch World Liberty Financial (WLF), a cryptocurrency company. Later, as Special Envoy, Witkoff reportedly advocated to advance an export deal to send the world’s most advanced A.I. chips to the UAE — a deal which was previously stalled due to national security concerns. Around the same time the deal was approved, a UAE government-backed firm “effectively handed World Liberty a $2 billion bank deposit” by
investing $2 billion in WLF’s stablecoin
.
“[This deal] appears to have aided a foreign power’s effort to acquire U.S. technology with serious economic and national security implications — and he potentially did so in exchange for his personal financial benefit,”
wrote the senators
.
Witkoff’s financial disclosure forms raise several issues, including that no agency ethics officials have signed the form or indicated that he is in compliance with ethics laws and regulations. Witkoff’s form also lists June 30, 2025 as the date of his appointment as Assistant to the President and Special Envoy for Peace Missions and states that he held no other federal positions before filing his disclosure form. However, as early as January and February 2025, he was working in an official capacity, representing the Trump administration in high-level meetings in Saudi Arabia, announcing official travel to Gaza under the President’s orders, and participating in diplomatic negotiations concerning Israel and Gaza.
The ethics disclosure form also does not make clear how large of an investment Witkoff currently has in the WLF crypto company or whether he has completely divested from the company. In May, WLF stated Witkoff was “fully divesting” and, months later,
the White House said
he was “still in the process of divesting.” To date, Witkoff’s
ethics forms only make clear
he divested $120 million in one of his holdings but does not specify which investment.
“These issues are not mere technicalities. They obstruct the public’s ability to understand the full scope of Mr. Witkoff’s apparent conflicts of interest, and the extent to which they are ongoing,”
said the senators
.
Senators Warren and Murphy asked the White House and OGE to, by December 1, 2025, explain why ethics officials have not signed off on Witkoff’s ethics forms, whether Witkoff has fully divested from WLF, whether Witkoff has been issued ethics waivers related to his work in the administration, and any legal analysis the officials conducted about the UAE’s investment in WLF and whether it was tied to the deal giving the country access to AI chips.
###
Print
Email
Tweet
Next Article
Previous Article