glory to god. somebody shout, amen. now i have got some things i want to show you here. hallelujah. thank you, lord. if you will watch these screens, please. the protestant reformation could also be known as one of the largest church splits in history. what took place in 1521 when martin luther was excommunicated from the catholic church, opened wide the doors to the spirit of division. since that time, true unity in the church has been nearly unheard of, with denomination after denomination and church split after church split. jesus' prayer that we all may be one, has seemed to be almost unattainable. however, within the heart of one young nun, the holy spirit was fanning a flame that would spark miraculous change. blessed ilana gera would not rest from encouraging pope leo xiii to establish an institutional devotion to the holy spirit. he dedicated his pontificate to the reunion of all christians and on the first day of 1901, invoked the holy spirit over all christendom to usher in the new century. that same day in topeka, kansas, the pentecostal movement sparked a flame when a young girl began speaking in tongues after the invocation of the holy spirit was given by a lay evangelist. following the 1901 pentecostal outpouring, a revival began in 1906 on azusa street, bringing real and lasting changes in the lives of those whose hearts were touched. years passed, bringing small signs of hope in the catholic church. just as pope leo xiii had prayed for an outpouring of the holy spirit in 1901, pope john xxiii prayed in 1962 for god to renew your wonders in this hour day as by a new pentecost. those prayers finally began to come to pass in 1967. this fresh move of the holy spirit took place not at the hands of the clergy, but rather among a group of catholic students from duquesne university. it quickly spread to the university of notre dame and was then experienced in the catholic church in 1970. this now worldwide charismatic movement currently includes approximately 700 million people of whom 160 million are catholics. this charismatic renewal grew from small prayer groups into national and international conferences. the magnitude of change that was to come because of this openness too and welcoming of the holy spirit was not initially known. by the holy spirit's great work, those 500-year-old divisional laws are coming down. the historic events at the beginning of the charismatic renewal are significant for unity, not only among individual christians, but also for unity in the entire worldwide church. the separation between the catholic church and the lutherans that began in the 1500s has been reversed nearly 500 years later in 1999. through the joint declaration on the doctrine of justification, together they stated that christ himself is our righteousness by grace alone in faith in christ's saving work and not because of any merit on our part. we are accepted by god. a common understanding of justification by god's grace through faith in christ has built a bridge reuniting the churches. and that is only the beginning. around the world, christians from all denominations, races and languages are joining together and again becoming the body of christ. it is now that we almost come onto the unity of our faith that the world may know that we are his disciples. somebody oughta shout amen. can you now see why the devil fought for the life that a catholic could not be saved? come on. this pinnacle is still outpouring in our time, started in the vatican. it did not start in the zucistry. it did not start in topeka, kansas. it was a pope that invoked, faith and asked god for a new pinnacle. amen. hello, straska. now, somebody said, well, is copeland turning catholic? no. they ask pope francis. do you think these people should convert and he should shout it? no. that would be wrong. we are coming together in the unity of our faith, not the unity of our religions. hallelujah. oh, i am telling you folks, this is just absolutely huge. and i will tell you why, the spirit of division is behind all racism. racism is not just skin color or ethnic background. let me give you this statement because i have got a number of things here to show you that i want to invite, if i get turned to loose on this, i am, man. the devil takes a difference, magnifies it in hate and divides the house. that is right. and a house divided against this stuff cannot stay. god takes a difference, magnifies it in love, and we become stronger as we unify together in the heal. amen. so there is not, it is not just the black race and the white race and the yellow race, brown race and white race. no, no, that is not it. there is the female race and the male race. there is the management race and the labor race. there is the republican race and the democrat race. it is a difference. and if he is magnified and hate, he will divide the house. amen. now, that is what cuthanite alleviates. amen. that is right. that is right. oh, this is strong. because we were raised in different environments, our natural thought patterns are not same. so we do not see things the same way. amen. your mama did things one way, my mama did them another. and so forth. and we think this is the way you do it. and they think that is the way you do it. if you line them all up out here, you got a black man, red man, and a yellow man, and brown men, white men, you got to hold them lined up and show them all exactly the same thing. then you start asking each one of them what they saw. and the black man will tell you one thing. and then, you know, the brown guy standing there next to the black guy said, hey, what happened? what is not a dummy? do not you see what happened? those were not grits. they were pepper seeds. and then the white guy said, hey, i am idiots. see what is happening? see satan's dividing the thing up. but what happens if you take the black man's saw and the brown man's saw and the yellow man's saw and the red man's saw and the white man's saw, now you got the whole picture. and it ever came, miss with you. i will quote cretchlow-dollar. he said, i do not understand why the white man claps on one, two, three, four. because he said, i learned how to clap on one, two, three, four. but if we get together, we do not miss a beat. hallelujah. thank god for cretchlow. glory to god. bless him, lord. without a doubt, the blood of jesus has the power to defeat the enemy. as a child of god and leader in the body of christ, pastor vicente moran knows that very well. there is power in the word of god. i say, you will not kill me. how can i not kill you? you will not kill me because i have a plan. in that moment, what plan? a plan to raise 136 churches in this country. he did not hesitate to use this powerful weapon when he and his oldest son were confronted by two armed robbers, just 14 hours before the start of the kcm 2014 venezuelan victory campaign, which pastor mora and his church have hosted in the city of marraquival for the past six years. the ordeals started when they were leaving the bank. father and son were forcefully grabbed and thrown into their own car, and driven away at gunpoint. pastor mora recalled what he had learned from kenneth copeland about boldly declaring the word of god. amen! amen! amen! amen! amen! may god love you. and that when god loves one, loves one, the love of god is for the love. god has a plan! god has a plan for you! they were taken to an unknown place. the thieves took their shoes and tied their hands and feet with the shoelaces, but pastor mora would not stop telling them that there was power in the blood of jesus, so they gagged him with a scarf. what happened later would prove the power of the blood of jesus and the power of our words. pastor mora and his son have all died by veterinary treatment in order to ensure the power and the good light matches each of them, but these are not valuable for the generation of people who had come out of the cemetery, not for the woman that lives. this time, the woman died. pastor mora and his son, hosue, were released just three hours later in a remote area of mara kaibo, unharmed, safe and sound, thanking god for their deliverance and grateful for the power of his worry. overall, the assailant stole from him the equivalent of $6,000 us dollars, his wedding ring, his watch, his cell phone, and his toyota truck. god's grace and protection on pastor mora did not end there. only two days later, his truck was miraculously found by the venezuelan army near the colombian border. one of the generals shared that he had previously watched kenneth copeland on television that he wished that pastor mora and brother copeland would pray for the venezuelan army. less than a week later, pastor mora was ministering to the soldiers. the word of god works not only with the lives of pastor mora and his son saved, but the ordeal opened the doors to spread the gospel within the army of venezuela. what the enemy meant for evil, god turned it for good. the 2014 venezuelan victory campaign was a resounding success. thanks be under god who has given us the victory over death. amen. come on, somebody! weapons of our warfare. but now you have to make the decision to use them before somebody got a guns when you are out. amen. they gagged him and could not shut him up. you have to know pastor mora. you could not kill him and shut him up. he would have jumped back up and still been hollering at you. amen. bishop butler was preaching in his church on the power of the blood. and god just arrested him and told him, you preach on him, you do not get off this until i tell you. you just keep preaching on this, keep preaching on it. and he kept preaching on the power of the blood. we plead in the blood of jesus. and what happens when you plead the blood, you enforce all the covenant that it ratifies. you are laying hold of your covenant protection. you are laying on what belongs to you. they overcame him with the blood of the lamb and the word of their testimony, but they did not love their lives under death. they did not sit there and say, i do not want to say nothing. he loved to shoot me. he will shoot you. so he just kept preaching it. and i remember his church was in the bank and standing over there at the little table, you know, making out or deposit slips and so on. so whatever it was he doing. and here comes some bad guys in the bank. and this guy's got a 12-gay shotgun and he makes everybody get on the floor. and he is got him all laid out there and he just walked over there and just shut that one in the head and shut that one in the head. and this woman down here that that blown the brother's church, bishop butler's church, she just starts shouting, you cannot kill me. the blood is against you. the blood is against you. the blood is against you. same thing more than that. you cannot shoot me. you have the blood of jesus against you. hey, somebody said, well, what if you would shot me anyway, think about it. you are going through the gates of heavens and the blood, the blood, the blood. you never know it when you die. and so he got up there to her and he stood there and stood there and stood there and said, i cannot shoot you. i cannot shoot you. i cannot shoot you. and he killed the ones on the east side. that sound familiar to you, terry? you have been there and done that. somebody held terry's gunpoint, stole everything he had. had him off down in this creek bed, planning to kill him and take his car. terry just said, what was the first thing you said to that guy? i am a man of god. i have got a thought of you. the name of jesus. you cannot kill me. say it again with him. i am a man of god. i have got a thought of you. in the name of jesus and you cannot kill me. how many times do you shoot at you? he shot five times. could not hit him. point blank. i had you tape on the integrity of the word god, playing the whole time. you just preaching the whole time. in the car. good. did i do all right? amen. and the bullets went in the dirt all the way around him. but now here's the big thing. the guy, of course, just should do. terry put the guy back in the car. now, cold weather and raining, right? cool. and took the guy, where did you taken him back to town or where he wanted to? so when he let the guy out, terry said, here, it is cold out here. now you need to take my cold. pray for him. pray for him. pray for him. got him saved. i know a woman that and own up in years and assume there is a guy broken to her house. and he is dormant around in there. and she said, uh, baby, are you hungry? he said, what? she said, you look like we are your hungry, sweetheart. sit down now. i am gonna fix you some, we are fixing we you like some eggs and some toast, maybe some bacon go with it. he said, well, you know why i am kind of hungry. she said him down and said, he said, he said, now, now, lady, you really do not know. he said, you know, i could take everything he is done. well, she said, that is all right, but you got to eat for it. she said, i love you sweetheart. he said, she said, you have anything you want, but she said, you know, i am stealing it. i just get it to you. he said, that way, that way they cannot, they cannot be bad to, they cannot lock you up. forgive it to you. he said, i am that boy. i need to eat you supper. he said, what is a matter with you? she said him down there and got that young man born again. i am telling you, now she, that is us. that is what we supposed to be doing. instead of putting bars everywhere and locking ourselves in and slamming off. amen. what is this? evangelists, reinhard bonke and daniel kalenda have written the story of god's love upon the hearts of men and women all around the world. and because of your partnership with kenneth copeland ministries and their partnership with christ for all nations, you have a part in every soul saved. amen. you see that you have soared, has brought great, great fruit. well over 70 million people have received jesus as their savior. and you have a mighty share in it. there is nothing in the world like seeing someone who is lost, who come into the arms of their lord and savior and find eternal life for the blood of jesus christ. i am telling you, it is the most supernatural thing that could ever happen in the world. a person being born again, going from darkness to light, passing from the power of satan to the power of god. it is a supernatural miracle, the greatest miracle of all. and we have seen millions upon millions upon millions of these miracles. and every time we see it, it is as wonderful and as fresh and as new as the very first time. and it is what keeps us going. it is like an addiction. we want to see more and more and more people find their way into the arms of jesus. i only have one desire. my heart is on the big channel. i want hell, empty, and heaven full. god the god, lord, oh, this is mine. oh, no, no, no, no, no. hallelujah! just since 2000, christ for all nations has seen over 55 million people except jesus as their lord and savior. in 2013 alone, they ministered in 17 nations including the united kingdom, new zealand, australia, singapore, finland, brazil, the united states, and many others. their 2013 and 14 crusades are reaching all across the african continent to kenya. cameroon, ghana, burundi, tanzania, rwanda, burkina faso, the ivory coast, liberia, zambia, and malawi. can i tell you why i am here? you want me to go out? because i expect that something is going to happen in your life tonight. wassalamu'alaikum. we really believe that the gospel of jesus christ is the answer for the problems, not just of africa, but of the entire world. we have seen how the power of the gospel is changing parts and minds. it is something that no military can do, no government can do, no political solution, no medical solution. the gospel of jesus christ is the greatest power for change in the human heart that exists in the earth and we are seeing it happening all the time. no bishop can save us, no pastor can save us, no evangelist can save us because none of them died for us. it is their name of... shabobak, baokarudas, d. jesus! jesus! jesus! jesus! i have told people wherever i go around the world that kenneth copeland ministries is the real deal, that their heart and their desire to see so save is not just something that is preached from the platform, but it is something that is demonstrated in a tangible way. and i can say this beyond any shadow of a doubt that literally tens of millions of people have come to christ because of the support of kenneth copeland ministries. we are now decades later and looking back and i see the faithfulness of kenneth copeland's ministry in supporting us in the harvest. i am overwhelmed and thank god for you all. i pray that the lord may reward you and we are very, very grateful to him and also to you. praise god. now, did you notice a couple of times in there you saw someone filling out what looked like a little book? those figures are not estimates. they are exact counts because every person that answers an invitation has to fill out that little card and be counseled by a person that leads them personally in prayer and makes sure they understand what they are doing and that it is followed up with material. these are exact numbers. when we said 55 million since 2000, that is 55 million actual cards. they go into a meeting. they have 250,000 counselors. you can have a good meeting with the counselors. quite a million. those crowds you saw there were over a million people. the lord had us build the first sound system that we did build if we had it built that would cover a million people in a crowd. that thing will talk to you over five miles away. there was one guy testified that he was in town. he cannot have these things in town. i mean, mine goodness are out in the country. he was in town standing on the corner waiting for a signal light to change. brother bonke gave the invitation. he got on his knees there. he is in town. he got on his knees and got born again on the street corner listening to ryan and mark bonke and then he four or five miles away. and that meeting out there. glory to god. now, what is important about this is as partners, this is this is vital information now. see, the apostle paul said to the church at philippa, you are partakers of my grace. both in the confirmation and in the defense of the gospel and in my bonds. your partakers of my grace. why? we are partners together. jesus disciples walked in his anointing. that is the way this thing works. well, we are partners with reinhardt's ministry. and that is so winning anointing. is available to you? amen. amen. it is available to your church. and you need to be standing on these things because heaven has it written down. see? that says 2000. you have won 255 million people. jesus. that same reward is by your name. yes. forward to come. thank you. it is not a big reward, literally reward, big reward for the guy that preached it. let me ask you something. which is more important. the messenger that did the preaching or the person that bought his clothes. you bought these clothes. yeah. you bought that airplane we fly around. amen. that is citation 10. and just a few days. i mean, just i thought we were going to hit it before the first of the year, but it is going to be right around that. that we put that airplane in service in 2006. and we are just bumping it right on a million miles preaching. they go. wow. i am talking about it. wow. that is awesome. now we have already gotten word from the lord that it is time for the second one to go into service. amen. hallelujah. hallelujah. because now the church ministry is just spread out all over the world. anyway. but hey, you bought that airplane. so who is the most important thing i did to preach into the person that paid for the gang? amen. one of my partners and his wife came up with the idea fuel for souls. and i said, what is that? they said, we want to fill up that tank. now, darling, i am going to tell you something now. you get talking about filling up the tank on that side, tasting 10. you need to be believing god. but, you know, yeah. and you know what, that resonated in my spirit. now, i mean, you tell you and pray about it. it is where we are, you know, it is it is part of the kingdom. but which is the most important? the guy that did the preaching? or the people that bought the gas? no, we are just saying together. so all of us get the same, heavenly and earthly reward. any blessing come into glory and the, it is coming to my point. i do not think you are taking enough advantage of that. i do not think you are, i do not think because you got people praying for you every day of the world. we are praying scripture for you. we are standing on the word for you. you do not need to be going into stuff and saying, i just tell you, i just feel so alone. shut your mouth. i do not care how you feel. you got people praying for you all over the world. thank you. there was a guy who ran up to me and that did against venezuela. in the hotel? well, i am walking back in the hotel. and he hollered at me. and he stopped me and he came over there to me. he said, brother, copeland, i am your partner. and he said, i know you pray for me. and he said, my, my little boy was sick, man. and he said, i, i am saying, oh jesus, help me. and he said, suddenly i remember brother copeland and praying for me today. and he said, i pray, go. and he said, i agree with brother copeland here. and he said, brother copeland, he said, you, you appear to me. and he said, i, i could hear your words, man. and he said, the lord, let me see you. and he were praying. and he said, you woke up to me and he said, everything is going to be alright. and he said, i, thank you, jesus, everything going to be alright. and he said, my little boy was healed like that. my dad. had knee replacement done years ago. and i was, i was overseas. and he was, i was overseas preaching. and he was in the hospital. and they had the first one went, the good. but then they did the second one. and they had some complications with it. and he was dying. and he said, i was just laying there in the bed. and he said, i was thinking about you. and he said, i was praying and, and thinking about you. and, and he talked about the things that, that, he came to mind and that the words that he had heard me preach and so forth. but he said, kenneth, he said, i looked up. and he said, there, you come through the doorway. and said, you woke up to me and said, you woke up to me and said, that, i do not worry about it. everything's going to be alright. he said, he said, jesus, got this taken care of. amen. amen. and he said, did not you just speak? and he said, i was all right from that time on. folks, we are so knitted together. i have had this happen to me over and over and over. i will be praying and all of a sudden, i will hear words come up on the inside of me that i heard kenneth hagen preach years and years ago. and, and words that i hear my spiritual father preach. i heard him again just a few days ago. i heard him say, kenneth, whatever you compromise to keep you will eventually lose. whoa. do not ever compromise. amen. hallelujah. i got saved. i got born again. the night i said, jesus, what do i do? and i heard my sunday school teacher's voice on the inside of me that narrowed soul's words were still on the inside of me when i 12 years old. and here i am 25, not serving god, mad at the whole world. and i heard it, boys, you have to ask jesus to come in the yard. i said, i love that is the lady's dagger. now, i am being disrespect, but we all cold our old lady's dagger to her face. she was old. and all of us, all of us, boys and that sunday school, if miss tiger was not not teaching, is a bad, just sunday school and they promote, you know, it is like school. and we told them said, if you do not promote miss tiger, with us am not none of us coming back. you just forget it. so miss tiger promoted with us right along, but her words were still on the inside of me. see how that is connected together in there? i got born again on the words of a saint of god that had been in heaven for years. but it is in there. these things, there is no time and distance in the realm of the spirit. take advantage of it. you are praying, stopping pray for all the partners. stopped and praying, saying, whatever brother and sister copeland are praying to gay, i agree with it. i made strong in my spirit, strong in my soul, strong in my body. i made hold in my finances, glory to god. i am the very child of god. and i am brother and sister copeland's partner, glory to god. we are in this thing together and i pray for them wherever they are. and i am praying for all the partners all around the world. we are on our way to a million partners. amen. glory to god. the spirit of god says you are going to be the biggest holy ghost gang in the world. amen. you get to partner letters, sit down and read it. why do not you put it on the line? i do not want it on line. why, the lord told me at least not yet. do not put that out there on line just for everybody. we are covenant to together as partners and you need to be able to put your eyes on that. amen. amen. i mean all the electronics and stuff is good. that is fine. but not when it is just personal. that is when i do not like text. because you make out of it whatever you want to make. and i can say something the lord told me to tell you. and you get mad thinking i was irritated or something when i say it. because i do not want you know i am not the benefit of sugar coating stuff. i do not do that. but i am not in the bit of being mad at you either. well i better quit preaching and show you this next. stephen and judy adderholt of amorolo, texas have been partners with kcm and blessed by the broadcast for more than 20 years. in 2011 they were finally able to attend their first believers convention. this event marked their lives and they made the decision to attend every year. then just six weeks later stephen faced a battle for his life. august 31st of 2011 and preparing to judy and i to take some things over to our daughters house that pain came on me again. she said go in the house and rest for just a minute and then we will go. and i barely made it back into the house before i went down on one knee. and at that point judy rushed in. and even though i could not move i could not talk. i could hear. i knew everything that was going on. and they got the ambulance to the house. and judy continued to pray. she spoke on me. she said you will live and you will not die and you will declare the works of the lord. so i did that and i called kenneth copeland. this is one of the ambulance's coming and she started a very far information. i said my husband's having a heart attack. she said let us pray and she pray and i will put it on the speaker where he could hear. stephen was shocked with battles several times to jolt his heart back into rhythm. he stayed in the hospital for one week and then began the road to rehab with some grim reports. determined to walk in his healing. stephen went back to work and to his golf game within just a few weeks. however within one month stephen made two more trips to the hospital. on the third visit the surgeon assessed the damage to stephen's heart and recommended quadruple bypass surgery. stephen agreed and the surgery was successful. he was being treated in recovery when judy suddenly sensed an urgent need to pray. and i looked down and there is a nurse and my sister coming to me. and i knew this was going and then she said he we were trying to take the vent out and he caught because it tickled and when he caught it caught the whole and his heart and the size of the man's thumb they blood out. he lost all his blood so it was another five and a half hour surgery. they come back and could tell us he is alive if he wakes up. he will be brain dead because you cannot give that much blood it wants without shock, allergic reactions. it is just too much for the body and so it is like i did not hear it. later on i thought why was i not worried? i just knew no he is alive. i was released the day before thanksgiving and for the month of december basically i just took it easy. i am president of six companies that are owned by a family and that sweet family said, rest. stephen and judy adderholt know that they have experienced many miracles in the process of stephen's healing. the attacks on his life in those few months brought them into a deeper commitment in their marriage and in their relationships with the lord. stephen adderholt is now stronger physically, mentally, emotionally and spiritually than he has ever been. he has been cleared by his doctors and is able to live a full and healthy life as a father, grandfather and grateful husband. god's got a plan and i am open to that. it is one reason why i come to the southwest believers convention. you know there may be a word for me there that heads me in in a right direction. he is definitely got a purpose for me. do i know what all that encompass is yet? no, i do not. you know the verse that comes to mind when a lot of that was going on and it still hits me is who is man that he is mind-believe in the cause of love. he just showed me a tremendous love, a through all of that and a peace and a joy and i know how much he loves me. oh, is not that good? is not that good? glory to god. hallelujah. my, how many present this morning are under 30 years old? i will see you in. oh, god, hey man, that is cool. that is good. let me tell you something. this am not for just old four. hey man. i really, i want you to listen up man. you know, you know, you know, if i see kids, i am old enough call you kid if i want to. hey man. i tell you what, you guys get on it now. get in faith now. start believing god, god said, i am not going to put up with men and let them live so long anymore because they are only flesh. now this is genesis chapter 6. so he cut, he said, so the days of man shall be 120 years. now he said they are only flesh because at that time nobody's born again. you are not only flesh. see they had a dead spirit. all their spirit within them, dead were just provide just enough of god's power to make the body function and so on. but you are born again. you are spirit, soul and flesh, but we are born of his bone and flesh of his flesh. now that is 70 or 80 years. that am not for you. never has been. that was for a disobedient people in the desert. man, get on that 120 now. get in there now. you understand what i am saying? do not wait till your mind is to get on it. it will work then. but hey, i am telling you we live so long. old people call us old man. we are going to die that young. we are going to die young at an old age. glory to god. oh yeah, get your faith on that 120. i want you to watch it. kids. was that my it job? i had my own office. i was the senior technician making 70,000-year plus bonuses. my own office. i get signed to a record deal thinking of this rap rock star. go on on the road and go broke almost within three months. sleeping on the side of the road, sleeping on hotel floors, eating at the mcdonald's dollar menu out of necessity as opposed to choice. and this is before we were at camp copeland's teaching by the way. and i remember actually when we, because i would come back from off tour and struggle, i am like, god, do you really want me to do this? are you sure? remember our pastures and our church went to one of the conventions while i was touring, but then the convention allowed our church to have the mp3s and distribute them to the whole church. and when we got a hold of those messages, prosperity, god's love, just the light bulbs turning on and that, having that in you allowed you to kind of have that fuel to keep going. it was not about the money. and a lot of people used to think i was doing it because of the money i was like, bro, i was making money. okay, i did not do music for the money. yeah, now i will make it money. but it did not, there is a long process. well, it was in 2010 that released this album called the chase. and there is a song on there called avalanche. and i did it with my buddy adam and we did not think that was the single or the big song. and it just blew up at radio. it really did. all of a sudden getting phone calls and come on tours, people are hitting me up and it was just a change. it blew up in the doors to the us. we started touring and eventually allowed us to move to california now in orange county, which was a dream i thought was lost 14 years ago. we are talking about not giving up. and i had a skateboarding accident that made me not pursue skateboarding anymore. and that is how i started writing music. and so literally, just a couple of years ago, 14 years later, i am finally living in my dream. the very first thing i do every day is my routine, is i open up a great fruit and i eat a great fruit and believe her voice of victory is playing. every single day, whether i am fully like, and it is just having it there, you know, listening. and it is a huge impact on my life. and taking notes and writing it down and then reflecting and grabbing those little nuggets of truth. it is just like, well, today, what did he say? he said, this common phrase, which we have all heard of, how goes the battle? and kept a couple of and brought it today. he is like, how goes the battle? how goes the victory? the battle's already been won. and i was just like, whoo, being my wife. and it is just like, i am going to take that. and i am going to, first of all, apply it to my life and then i am going to go share it. well, that one cd, the power of love. and when we became partners and we got the partnership package, there was a whole bunch of stuff in there. and we would already been listening to the messages, but that one power of love message. i am just trying to recite everything. i listen to it every day on the way to the studio. i remember recording this one record, which happened to be the one that really blew up for us, but just to love people. and the words, watching your words and what you are saying, and like, you have what you say. and if you want to change what you have, you have got to change what you are saying. i weave all these different little things in the lyrics and what not. you really need to kind of think about god and the anointing that is on your life and not in a puffed up way. but knowing like, i have partnered with this guy. and he is, you know, spent so much time in the word and all this stuff. and it is just getting passed down. and i kind of look at it like my daughter the other day. i was kind of put my hand on her and i was blessing her and i was like, i want you to receive what is on my life. because there is something on me. there is. and i believe that that is part of partnering with kenneth copeland, you know, and in the ministry in glory. and then like, you know, the whole power of partnership and the anointing that is on his life. i want that in my life. and i believe that that transfers by us partnering and something's made manifest. it is going to expose by the light. and the light really shows the stuff that needs to be tweaked and stuff in our lives. and, you know, with the music and ministry i do, you know, it gives me a platform to speak and shine light to people's lives. and so that is what it is all about. praise god. hallelujah. well, let me ask you why i did not wonder what these young people are coming to. they are coming to god. that is what they are coming to. amen. have you ever heard of a young minister with the name of dean sykes? right is named now. your partners with him. and dean is ministering in junior highs and high schools all over the united states and not all of them christian schools. amen. amen. it is shocking. he gives an invitation. he preaches a message called you matter. you matter to god, you matter to you parents, but you matter to people throughout life. you there and powerful message that god's giving him about you matter. and he gives invitations for young people, young men and women to resist suicide. amen. we have not had hundreds. we have had thousands and thousands of young teenage kids coming up and signing cards. i am not going to take my life. i read a, he sent me a text just a few days ago. he had just left this one's group and he said, he said, you just had to, you just have to see this one. and this young girl text him back. she said, i have such a problem with anxiety. i could not come up and see you personally, but i wanted to text it to you. she said, i called my, my mother and asked her to bring my prescription pills to me. a young teenage girl on prescription medicine. that should not be true. no morning and believer ought to be on prescription. gloria, i mean, i am, i am obviously 78, first week and next month, gloria is 72. we are not on prescription. we do not have any prescription medicine. we are on faith. i take a lot of vitamins and good stuff like that. i eat according to the bible. you do not have any right to just eat anything you want to and still be a christian. the bible tells you what to eat now getting a line. amen. so anyway, she said, send me my, she said, i asked my mother to bring me my prescription pills because i was planning to overdose on them today and you stopped it. and that wonderful. and they sign the u-matter card. we have had thousands of teenagers get born again through that young man's ministry. and it is, sure, gloria, to god. and it is a wonderful thing. and then you come out with young, young men and women like that that are out preaching the word that they are singing it, preaching it, living it, glory to god. one young woman, just a kid. and she said, i need a car. i am going to school and i need a car. and she said, you know, i am a partner with the other copeland ministry, but she said, i went to the lord. i said, what car should i have? and she said, i just, you know, i like jeeps. and so she said, i went and got the book that said, and got on the line where it said, build your jeep. and she said, i got on there and i built it and, and she is put down the car and all of that. and she said, i am, i am, i am leaving god. and she said, i was going down to the, to the jeep place and i, i went down there to, she, the car, i liked the one that i had designed, the color and everything. she said, i went down there to see it. and she said there were some other people there that were shopping. and she said, they, they kind of followed me around. and i got over there and the salesman showed me that car. she said, he is exactly the car that i had on my, on my computer and said, he said, do you like it? and she said, yeah, i do. and she, he said, well, would you like to buy it today? and the person that was, what walked over there and said, i have a check written, i will pay you this right now for that jeep. and he took it and she drove her car home. now the lord had told those people what dealership and how big a check the right. super natural. that is living in the kingdom. i told you your stuff is paid for. she is paid for in the kingdom. and god has avenues to get that through to you. if you get rid of the, well, i got to go raise the money to get it. no, you just need to be so in. you just need to be listening and you just need to be obedient. well, no, but brother copen, you just do not understand. i mean, you know, i am just, i am just a little, i am just a little black girl. and, and i got the xlexia. i cannot read. and i will just come behind. and, and you know, i am not nobody. and i watch this. when i was about 13, i used to listen to kenna copen all the time on the radio. and, and listening to him, he had a great impact on my life. and, and i say that because all throughout my years in elementary school, they would say that i had this lexat and that i would never learn how to read, never learn how to write. i was in special at all school. and i used to say, looked at all my six sisters and i like, what happened to me? they could read, they could write, they was always in talent shows. and then it was me that started, kenna, it is worked well or anything. and i like, why me lord? so i found myself always going to the back. and everybody said, why are you always sitting the back? well, i am not like, oh, you all, you all got all this talent, you all can do this. and then it is me that people would say, well, she is got a handicap. i heard kenna on the radio. and he would always say, have faith in god. and then just listening to him in gloria, throughout the years, i was able to love the word to change my life because i heard a man and god, and a woman of god that say, you do not have to settle for this. young wanda listened to the teachings and changed her words and her self-image. she did earn a high school diploma, though she was functionally illiterate. wanda could not pass a college entrance exam, so she attended trade school and discovered a gift for customer service. her personal life held some struggles. and by the age of 20, wanda was divorced and the mother of three small children. she trusted god, and he brought a man of character and faith into her life. we dated for two months, got married, and he adopted all my kids. he raised him. and just to see us take those three kids and raise them in the sight of god and watch god, you know, send them to college, watch god just bring them up. none of them in trouble. they are just, oh, really guy, you do not necessarily solve this for me? gary and wanda was, have been married for more than 34 years. through his air force career, the family had the opportunity to move to several bases and experience other cultures and locations. along the way, god provided wonderful tutors for wanda. and as her speech improved, she learned to read and write. and wanda passed her first college entrance exam. she became an excellent student, making top grades and has earned several degrees. i have my bachelor in biblical studies, my master in local church, and my doctorate is doctor ministry. i work for the department of navy. i work with feed and family support. i am one of the customer service rep there that help all families that come in with problems. and besides that, i got his call to the ministry. so what about all those labels? special ed, dyslexia. what have you done with all those? oh, they buried. they are buried in the word, you know, god blood, the covenant. they have been buried in the blood of jesus. i am a child of the key. i walk in the covenant of god. i am excited about what god is doing with kcm and how i can be a part of that. and i say to the world, join in with me. it is going to be a blessing. hallelujah. i will have you know that is dr. wanda walesh. amen. now, you listen to me. do not you let anybody tell you you got to go, go, you cannot, you cannot do that. you cannot finish your dream. no, no, no, no. it enbased on your ethnic background. it enbased on your education or your life of it. it is not based on where you come from. it based on who your lord is and who god is to you and who you are to go. amen. hallelujah. and i will tell you this love never fails. hallelujah. you notice she got into customer service. that that come to just slid through there. but you notice how god got a hold of that and anointed her to serve people. and she caught on the fact that she is good at this. now that means god put that grace in her to do it. do not ever get the idea you are just good at something. that is a grace that god put in your life. give him always the praise of the lord for it. that am not to you. well, you know, i am just kind of good at it. no, without the grace of god, you could not figure out how to brush your teeth. neither can anybody else. amen. no, no, that is some, there are some graces you are born with when you come into this world. there are other graces that develop as you grow up and mature. but there are graces that come into your life after you are born again. and they, if you are walking in faith, they will develop. and then more graces begin to be released in your life as your baptized and the holy ghost. particularly as you begin to pray in the spirit. well, see, god put that grace in her for service. and she began to serve people. amen. and it caused her to be able to develop that grace. well, then when god told her how to read and told her how to write and people are helping her and she began to develop what she did, she went ahead and got her degree in that. what she done, she is still developing. now as she got her doctorate, i would like to read her thesis, would not you? yes. amen. about customer service, about serving people. glory to god. amen. in this good. yes it is. do not you let anybody hold you back? amen. do not you ever do that. glory to god, hallelujah. do not you just love to hear bill winston tell about buying that whole shopping center over there? amen. no people telling them they am not going to do it. of course, the city did not want a church to get that because the city do not get to taxes. amen. and they were going to just keep them from getting it. and god told bill winston the exact words to say and go down and say them to the mayor. well, i cannot get in to see the mayor. i am just a little black preacher. i got shut to mouth. you do not hear bill winston saying that? amen. do not go to the mayor, he is. amen. amen. and he just went down there and expected god to open the door. he did. the mayor sat down. he read exactly the scripture that god told him to read and said exactly the words god told him to say it and left. and the mayor did exactly what she is supposed to do. yeah, exactly. amen. yeah, changed everything. hallelujah. stand up and praise god and thank him. hallelujah. say it. i am a believer. and i am not a doubter. glory to god. come on, give the lord praise. glory, glory, glory, glory, glory, glory, glory, glory, glory, glory, glory, glory, glory, glory, glory, glory. father, i pray from my partners this morning, in the name of jesus. i am asking you, sir, to reveal to the people in this room that you are calling to become partners with this ministry. and i thank you for them. and i open the doors of this ministry, and i receive them. i receive them as partners in the name of the lord jesus christ. and father, i pray for them right now. i pray that they beam all of my partners. i pray that they become very strong financially, very strong financially. and you are adding partners to this ministry that are very strong financially. some already strong financially and you are calling them. others you are calling strong financially and they are coming into this ministry. and they will obey you. and you said to me, you said, i am increasing your long time partners and they will become very strong financially and they will obey me. for there has been released from heaven through the earth to you. a mighty power and anointing. and you will accomplish all that i have put in your hands. and you will do all that i have commanded you to do. and you will not come short. you will not fail. you will not lack. you will not long and you will never be diminished. and father, we thank you for that. we give you praise and we honor you for it. father, i pray for my partners right now. all of my partners that work for someone else. i am asking you to give them the best ideas. to give them to give them insights and concepts so that they receive promotion after promotion after promotion. for your words said promotion comes from on high. promotion comes from god. and i am asking you, sir, in the name of jesus that they come right on up until they own that company if it be your will to do. and all of my partners that have their own businesses. sir, i am asking you to bless them. i am asking you to cause them the prosper beyond anything anybody else can understand. caused them the prosper when there is no prosperity. caused them to develop things when there is no development. caused them to have favor in the eyes of god, in the eyes of men, in the eyes of the government. and people just cannot keep from blessing them. and i thank you for it until the point where people come to them and say we do not understand this. how are you doing this? how do you prosper when all of us are failing? and you will say his name is jesus and he supplies all of my needs according to his riches in glory. and he gives me all things richly to enjoy. and father, we will be strong in it. now father, all of my partners that do not have a job, but they want a job. i am asking you to get them in contact with the best job they have ever had or ever even thought they ever would have. you know right where that job is? you know exactly how to get the job and get my partner together. and we thank you for it. and they will grow and become strong in that company. and they will preach the gospel there. and many souls will come into the kingdom. we will cause of it. and all of my partners, sir, that are in the ministry. oh god bless them all. i am asking you to cause. i am asking you to cause an increase in their anointing beyond, beyond their dreams, beyond what they can ask or think and send them partners. if their pastors send them, send them a grander and greater and larger church congregation until it just spreads out all over the city, spreads out into other cities. your plan be done. thank you for it, sir. we praise you for it in the name of the lord jesus christ. and father, all of my partners that have family outside the kingdom of god. father, you know in fact we release our faith in what you said, jesus. we first bind the strong men. you spirit operating in the lives of the families of my partners to keep them out of the kingdom of god. together we bind you. you desist in your maneuvers. you stop it now. lord jesus, you said, pray ye the lord of the harvest that he sent laborers into the field. father, you know exactly to whom they will listen. you know exactly where they are and we are asking you to get that person across their path with the word of the lord jesus christ and their salvation. the word of their healing, the word of their deliverance. hallelujah, glory be to god. those that have family, children, parents. i am asking you that all of their family come rushing into the kingdom of god. like a flaw into the kingdom. all of my partners that have a family member that is incarcerated somewhere. get the word of god through to them. in jesus' name, release them and send them home. send them home, born again, baptized in the holy goat. thank you, sir. yes, sir. yes, sir. yes, sir. thank you for reminding me. the largest revival and outpouring going on in the earth today is in the prisons of the world. it is happening right now. glory to god. oh, somebody rejoice and see. thank you for it, father. thank you, father. thank you for it. thank you. father, if we, if any of my partners have family members, children that are out there somewhere in the world and they do not know where they are, have not heard from them. and they are crying out to you. father, i am asking you in the name of jesus to cause that child to contact them today. today calls that child to get in touch with them in the name of jesus. thank you, fort lord. thank you for it, lord. oh, my, my, my, my glory to god. i am seeing things in the spirit. oh, i am seeing angels at work. i am seeing angels releasing people that have been in bondage and tied up in situations they could not get out of. i am seeing people being loose and set free and cannot wait to call them on daddy. cannot wait to call my brother. i cannot wait to call my sister. i got to let them know where i am. i got to let them know i am all right. glory to god. in fact, i got in my mind to go home. i believe it is time for me to go home and see them all. i believe it is time for me to go home and see my sister and my brother. glory to god. that is what they are saying. that is what they are thinking right now. they are like the prodigal of old. they are coming to themselves right now. they are no longer ashamed. they are no longer, they are no longer in bondage. there is some of them bound up to wives and husbands that they just could not have been able to get out from under them. there've been abuse but the bonus and the power of the gospel is coming to live in them again that they heard when they were children and you have hold. glory to god. they are coming home. blessing be the name of the lord god forever. whoo! glory. now father, i pray this. i have prayed it. glory and i prayed it and took communion over at years ago. and i pray it now so that my partners can hear me. pray it before you, dear lord jesus, before you, my heavenly father, before you, father, spirit of the living god that dwells within me, before all the angels that are in this room and all the angels of heaven, glory to god. and before every demon of hell, in the name of jesus christ of nazareth, whose i am and whom i serve, i commit again before heaven and earth today to keep this ministry pure, first to keep it pure on the word of god. i am determined to only say what i hear my father say and to only do what i see you do, sir. i am committed before you today to keep this ministry pure financially and to keep this ministry pure sexually by the grace of god and by the power of the holy spirit that dwells within gloria and me and in this ministry and to walk in love. we are determined, heavenly for other, to keep the commandment of love and walk in faith and to not deviate from it to the right nor to the left and be quick to repent. thank you, sir. oh, father, i thank you. now bless the people in this congregation, the blessing of the lord, flow beyond measure throughout the whole congregation, everybody on the internet watch me. everybody watching about television. be blessed. now right there, your response is i believe, i will, i take it, i have it, i am so grateful for it and i forgive if i have all it against any. hallelujah. oh, glory, glory, glory, glory. oh, my mind goes back to the first partner service i was ever in. at this particular time, i was part of the flight crew, all roberts evangelistic association, i was student there to work you. and on my second meeting, they assigned me to drive to the roberts car. and that is the way that very, very close and precious relationship began 48 years ago. and we became so close over the years. but this was, this was at the very beginning and at the very beginning, i appreciate, he said first partner service, i want to be a partner so bad. and i, oh, man, and i stuck my hand up and i want to be a partner. i did not, i had zero money. there was not anywhere in the world that belonged to me. a lot of debt, no money. and i held up my hand, they passed out the little envelopes and i signed it up for $10 a month. and i thought, why am i not putting this envelope? and i thought, i know, i will cut a button off my shirt and it had to, you may have been a little stumpy church pencils. you may have thought, some of you am not old enough. little, big, pencil, man am not worth nothing. just if that is what they are for, the sign of, an envelope or something. and each little envelope had one little wooden pencils in it. i said, hey, that is my pencil. i am putting that pencil in there and that represents my $10, sir. now stuck it in there and i put it in the offering plate and i thought, i am a partner, glory to god. and there was a woman standing right behind me. she said, hey, now we down in south georgia, do not stand. she said, hey, hey you, that is right. yeah, you, the law man, where what made his whole meeting, it give you $10. now some of you folks who live up in this part of the world do not know what a word word is. you got any children with every three years, that is a word word. she said, now, i have been aware of what made his whole meeting to give you $10. i said, whoa, let it give it here. i grabbed my $10 mill and run over there and talked to us. you got the envelope, got my pencil, put it in my pocket, put the money in the envelope. i am a partner. hallelujah, glory to god. i went home to glory. i said, glory, we are partners with all roberts for $10 a month. she said, what? where are we ever going to get $10 a month? i said, she had not heard the message. i said, sit down girl. i got my bible and i pre-set thing to say, exactly as i could get it, just a word for word if i could get it. and here was my closing on my message. gloria, we can have all roberts and money for $10 a month. hallelujah. and she got excited and we are starting with our partners. hallelujah. amen. and we still are.