go on to your left. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. go on. testing one two one two check check one two testing one two one two check testing one two one two check testing one two one two check testing one two one two check first question.iasm 1 too check. one two check. testing one two one two check. check check check one two one two check. testing one two one two check. testing one two one two check. that is the dg1 for your interview and just yeah yeah okay. not yet we are checking audio real quick and then check one two. testing one two one two check. testing one two one two check. testing one two one two check. testing one two one two check. check one two one two check. testing one two one two check check one two, one two check, testing, one two, one two check, testing one two, one two check, testing one, two one two check, check check check, check check check check check hey okay, so who is gonna do it? okay. okay. okay. that is so cool. that is my making. looks good. i am going to throw up my nose. these are little skins here. so you are right, i am sorry. okay. that is that giant. how about that giant? okay. the little teeth. it is wet. you have to turn your body, you can find facing here. okay. we are doing a live interview and 10 seconds. mr. moore, how are you feeling tonight and how has the campaign been going? well, the campaign, how am i feeling is incredible. i mean, the support we have had, you know, to be able to mount the kind of campaign we ran and ran the kind of race we have run. you just have the grassroots oil for us and to spend relatively a small dollar and to be blessed the way this campaign has been blessed. i am just really humbled by the process and by the people they got behind us. i cannot explain it, but i am brave. okay. okay. how are the numbers going for you and how are you feeling tonight? i heard the first part of the question. the numbers are going really well. the precincts we are getting in, we have heard really, really well in our home area, well in the river region and even in houston county, we are doing real well. so that is, i think, is key for us picking up those elmore, or a toggle county, northern district, montgomery area, and then of course doing well in home. and so far, that is what we are here. so we are really, really blessed and we are excited about what we are here. how hard has your campaign team worked? well, you know, we did not really have a lot of paid staffers. you are living in a campaign that did not have a general manager. we did not have a fundraiser. we just had grassroots and a couple campaign staffers and people that love this and support this and a great social media team. and so, you know, they have worked so very hard. and it is a roller coaster, but we learned over the years that it is never as good as you think it is. it is never as bad as you think it is. it is a roller coaster ride, but you just got to trust and walk in faith and that is what we have got. have you talked to anyone today that is talked about how the voter turnout looked? how the voter turnout looked? you know, i have not heard a lot in the areas. i have heard it is been low. so i assume, you know, i think the secretary of state said maybe 17%, but we really have not had. no pipe counting was a little low or a while ago. i was shocked by that number, but the rest of the air really have not heard. i think everybody's just running about 17%. that is a guess. i do not know the truth. what are your next steps if you win? well, you know, i guess the next step is trying to figure out, you know, how do we get ready to go? and for going into november, prepping our team for that, maybe bringing a few more people on to help us get our message out. and you know, walking faith, that is a lot of what we do. and so, i had not thought that far ahead, honestly. thank you for your time, mr. moore. thank you. okay. so, i am going to be in a corner. okay. thank you. thank you for your time, mr. moore. thank you. okay, so you just want me to do it right there. now your training is about to stop and have all your trades. do you want to check? i am not the only one who is been here. i am not the only one who is been here. i want to check. what is the light for the world without? the day the world is blind. and you know, in a tent cell without, you did this tent cell without pushing the all because of the warning you all. and so he does a lot of us to i am standing here and i am in a total shock. i am in a trouble. well, that is it. i see all that i am not, but i have a surprise as you all. i am just a workman tell. i cannot say that. i have got a little parents meet, i got a lot of people on the same thing. i am on the bed, i am on the wall, i am in the car waiting for a lot. it is really bad in here. but it will not have how i pray this will tell us the pray. and you can be out there. they call the praise of order to be here to this news announcement. so i am doing again, you know, giving us what i am about to do. all right, congratulations. thank you. thank you. thank you. we are going to go to the next video. and this is a work, we are going to have a kind of a cause for. amen. you got to let it warm. we have got a shop. real loud, put your hands together. thank you. hey, you have a ears. we are about to raise a handphone. we are about to have a handphone. oh, god, we love you. we thank you lord. it is your name. this family to do this work. and this time, we god that you have been with them. and you have directed them. and you have placed your faith on their life lord. and tonight we give you our god. all body, all the praise, all the glory. and we declare it today in jesus' name, and we will god. and everybody's here today, man. amen. thank you. thank you. thank you. i am ready to give you a hug. thank you. i was very happy. i am a hug. i am a friend of yours. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. you are welcome. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. i am glad you are back. thank you. thank you. if you enjoyed this video, please share it with your friends. please. thank you. thank you. i am going to give them the horse to laugh. it is a six-year-old. she is got one. you got a good one? it is a good one. i do not want to give you one. it is a good one. no, one. take that one. you can bounce. now, what else do i need? you can come out and hit her. i want to hit her. i want to hit her. i want to hit her. you can go. love you. do you want to hit her? love you. love you. love you. love you. love you. love you. love me. love you. love you. i do not want to hear that. it is not so good. i do not want to hear that. no, you do not. you just know i need that. you just know i need that. it is all just. you are coming. i am going to hold down this time. what? i am getting kicked in this time. i am going to hold down this time. i am going to hold down this time. i am going to hold down this time. i know. i hear. i am going to hold down right over there. i do not want to hear. i am going to be like right here. they all go crazy. randy and george. randy and george. randy and george. randy can go. it is a good idea to find names. i am wearing a fake one. it is a good idea to find names. it is a good idea to find names. i am not going to stand like randy or the other one. i am going to get my name back. i am going to get my name back. wah! wah! wah! wah! wah! wah! wah! wah! i think it was a big one. we got time. we need to get started. not yet. the boss man said. now i do not know what to do. i got to stand up here for two or three minutes. let me tell. can i? hey jonathan, can i tell the backstory? not yet. okay. we got to wait eight minutes. this is my boss right here. i am going to tell a little backstory about jonathan. i am going to tell a little backstory about jonathan. i am going to tell a little backstory about jonathan. this guy we met on the floor of the republican national convention and cleveland o'hau. he was my alternate delegate. but more than that, we have called this a david and goliath story. that is my jonathan. he was my armor bear. he and his wife, when i tell you they carried the media load for this, this guy did not charge me hardly anything for what it was worth. it was how we were able to do it because he would it did not matter on social media. it did not matter if he had to drive through the night with a van to do a live event. he did it. he is my jonathan. and so the lord brought jonathan in my life at the national convention and what night's the dental at that time. and for us to be standing here tonight, jonathan, that is unbelievable brother. i am unbelievable. and so he stays behind the scenes. you rarely ever see him. but i tell you all, he was kind of like a campaign general manager. what am i supposed to call you now? consultant. consultant, whatever. he was a jack of all trades and a master. no, that is what jonathan was. but he was great. and so he and i became fast friends. his wife actually during the primary was walking around the building praying the whole time. joe, come on up here. joe, come on up here. so they have become when you end the churches and you fight those fights, those battles that those friends become family and they have become family really for us. so anyway, jonathan, tell me when i can start. all right. let us go five minutes. we got five minutes. oh, we got five whole minutes. so. yeah, no questions. no questions. oh, yes. i hope everybody voted today. i hope everybody voted today. but anyway, so yeah, it is been an interesting, interesting road to hope for us. and so i got to say enough about my family and my friends and like said, the team. and we will talk about those guys a little bit. randy higman on the end. and george trider, those two guys, one on put 13,000 miles on one of my trucks driving around. so. come on up, friends. joe, you all come on up, man. come on up. everybody come on around. do not worry about the cameras are getting with the need. you do not need to be behind the cameras. you do not need to be happy. feeling on the side, joe. yeah, come on, man. you all come on up, brudson. you all come on up. this is my grassroots life. bring your friends. come on up, man. oh, yeah. come on up. look at mr. cole. woo! woo! woo! you are right over there, right? you are right over there, right? yes, man. yes, man. good. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. come on up, man. yeah. come on up. come on up, man. yeah. oh, my god. hello. i am sorry. john, john, john. we are going to get that. he is going to walk up. oh, you said one minute. yeah. oh, man, mr. chair. oh, man. oh, man. oh, man. oh, man. oh, man. everybody ready? here we go. woo! very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very. well, well, man, you know, guys, thank you all so much for being here. it is a blessing to have you on my team and have the support and prayers that we have received. i have got to thank ketchum's restaurant tonight. were they not incredible, daniel? oh, yeah! oh, yeah! oh, yeah! okay, so first thing i am going to do is read a couple bible verses. and these were kind of the ones that the lord just gave us through the fire and over the last 770 days since the last primary. so, first jesus said, look at them and he said, with men it is impossible, but not with god. with god, all things are possible. amen. i am mark 1027 and psalm 37, which has kind of been, it is the verse of the lord gave me through the most difficult time in my life, but that 2014, if that had not happened, i would not be standing here in front of you today. the lord just, he will cut you off to the root sometime and let you build from the ground up. and that is kind of what he did with our family and that is what he did with me and my walk in faith. and so, this was a walk in faith. it made no sense to man. but you know, the obedience is counted. it is counted as righteousness. it is instant. you know, obedience is the greatest thing you do. it is greater than any sacrifice you make. so, we always try to walk in obedience and this was a prayerful campaign. it was a grassroots campaign and god has blessed us. so, the second one is psalm 37, 5, 6 and some of you all may have heard me read this before. if you watch much network tv, you probably did. it says, commit your way to the lord. trust him and he will do this. he will make your righteousness reward shine like the dome. your vindication like the new day sign. and so, this to us was about, we just wanted to run a clean race, you know, we wanted to give god the glory and that is the first thing i wanted to do tonight. that is what we were instructed to do. and at end of the day, i will tell you all this, there is a god and we are not him. you know, we are not him. and he could do amazing things. i wrote in my journal a few months ago, it said, an improbability is a possibility if you do not let your capabilities get in the way of god's availability. and that was a word the lord gave me. in other words, these impossibilities are always possible if you do not ever limit god. and that is how i approached this. and so, he has worked in miracle. this was truly a david and gly. this was a david and gly. we were outspent, i do not know, we spent maybe three or four hundred thousand on our race and they spent two or three million. but like i said, improbabilities are possibilities when god's involved. and so, i want to thank a few people i have got to certainly think my wife heather. chathleen, this is my daughter. youngest trump delegate in the nation, by the way, claudia. jeb, he is a caboose and jeremy. my mom and my dad, my mom is, she is a prayer warrior, she is behind me here somewhere, i am sure. my mother-in-law, i tell you all when she prayed over me, she lives with us and she prayed over me often. and i felt those prayers. i mean, sometimes she would actually come down to the morning when i was doing my bible study and pray over me. and so, that gives you a certain amount of comfort when you go in the battle. you know that you are covered in the blood. and so, we have had just so much support in prayers. and so, of course, sherry mccormick, about the only true page. sherry was super hard worker, you know, super hard worker. and about the only full time paid staffer i had the whole time. she was just grassroots. you know, we have always believed that if you campaign among the people, you will govern for the people. but as you campaign from an ivory tower, you will govern from an ivory tower. and so, sherry was good at getting out and meeting people and meeting needs. when we got shut down with the covid-19, we served people. we helped people. and so, she is been big in that. randy hickman, i mentioned earlier, mr. george trotter. no body. these guys, i do not know where they find their energy, but these guys bring it. when i tell you they bring it, mr. george be calling you yelling on the phone about he got you two votes today. and randy was just, randy was up there wearing a wheels off of that truck. he, he, he, 13,000 miles he drove that truck. and so, just with a very more sign in the back of it, you know. and so, it is just down the line. shaggle pride, shaggle. yes. oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. my treasure, steve cape, henrietta, mr. lewis coles, mr. lewis coles. that man right there drove me when we were working really, really hard for endorsements. we drove many a night. i think we did 15 counties in meetings, and he drove me, and just drove me, and encouraged me. good night since some bad nights. his jokes get old after a while. he will tell you the same story over and over. andy carver, yeah. johnny mccoy, frank wilts, those are veterans. those are the guys that worked so hard for the veterans in northern part of the district. scott and don johnson, missou new wine. i do not know if she is left yet or if she is still here. missou new wine. it is su's fault that i stand before you today. she got me in the politics in 2008. she asked me to consider serving. and i went to the state house at that time, so it is her fault. john roberts, carol bolston, miss virginia howard's a prayer warrior friend of mine. god, they are all wonderful. shannon smith and her family, those kids, and they have worked so hard. i think they were waving signs today for us. so mr. jim coals and then andy gamble. and andy gamble, mickey beverly jordan, tyler burns. tyler. tyler was kind of, he was a johnny come lately. i mean, we hired him. he had worked hard on it. i guess a couple of races and you all were in good shape. and so he reached out to us and he worked at northern part of the river region. you see how sunburn he is? that is from, that is from walking door to door and waving signs and 100 degree day in and day out. and emily helped him a lot. they did a wonderful job. my brother, novi bracken, you all do not hurt him, pray as he here tonight. novi do not like any kind of tension, but he is called to the lord of what he does and he just helped god us. when i tell you all we ran a perfect campaign, we ran a perfect campaign, but it was not anything we did. it was the lord's god us through novi bracken and prayers. and he would give me words about not to go negative. he would tell me how to approach it. and so that is novi was the god. he was my prayer warrior, my buddy. and he gave me peace at times when i did not always have it. so anyway, so novi, randy hard is not here, but randy's a good friend of mine. he is a prayer warrior. and i am sure we will see him eventually around, but dear friend of mine, bill harris. bill here is the other. he had to go back north. bill's a good conservative guy from the northern part of the district. and he was my, i guess you say joshua. he is the one that got me to step into 2018 and run. he said, he said, barry, you know the lord did not part to water till the priest put the feet in the water? that was bill harris. and so we ran, i told heather that day i said we are going to step in this congressional race and run against an incumbent, but we felt called to do that. have we not laid the groundwork in 18? we would not be standing here in 2020. so the lord, he will build you that way. he will start you in 14. he brought us through 18. and then he called us into this thing again. in 20, we are like, lord, really? but you know, he is been faithful. and i, when i see a garbage man from baton's crossroad, alabama, going to congress and standing up here talking to a bunch of people and tv cameras, that tells you that we are living one of the greatest nations in the world. and, man. there we are. there we are. we were against seven candidates in the primary. seven people. you all know how discouraged and that can be. especially when one of them's got $2 million. that can be discouraging. but you know, it was just we stepped in and we ran and we worked hard and here we are. and so i tell you, we are still the greatest nation on earth, but things like that. tiffany tata, one of my pair of warrior friends, and then jason howles, a prayer friend of mine. he is down the panel of florida, but i made him a long time ago. he is a spirit filled man. okay, and my media warriors, they worked so hard. you all, we knew that grassroots was key. we knew that is how we would get the load out. and so that is what we did. they worked so hard. i want to thank them and wendy and john, sector monica howard and sean, wendy penson, dorothy robbins, volunteer of the dothan area. all my employees at bmi, they kind of held the fort down all i did. yeah. warren byron, his wife and his family have always supported and safe come to everything. and of course paul daz, he is worked so hard. so paul's kind of one of my guys. he shows up and he will go door-knock do whatever you ask him to do. he will ride with me and drive me, and that helps a lot too. so anyway, i just want to thank you all so much. and tell you this, jonathan brother, i love you. you have been my armor bearer through this thing, man. and so he has been a, i tell you, nobody has worked any harder than him to help us match the big money. and we did it without the big money, because of his hard work, him and his wife. and so guys, i appreciate you all being here. and i cannot tell you, it had not hit me yet, and we did this. and honestly, as much as you like to trust the lord, sometimes you still go, lord, are you sure about this? you know what you are going to say? but he has been so faithful and he is been so gracious. and so thank you all, i love you all. i love our community. and the president needs a little help. i have been with him since the day one, and i tell you this. you all keep me in your prayers, because i told the kids early on, i said, the winning this race and running this campaign, that is the easy part. going to dc and facing the kind of stuff that we have got going on in this country, it is a spiritual battle for the future of the nation. i just tell you all that. it is not democrats, it is not race wars. it is a spiritual battle for the future of our country. we have got to have men who are willing to bend to me and look to heaven. and it is stand up and fight. and so that is what we are going to do. and so you all keep us in your prayers. and god bless you. we love you guys. and i do not know what else to say except, i love you and i appreciate it. i am serious. i am serious. i am serious that i did not need to get a shout out to my veterans. the veterans really got out and worked so hard for us. they are soldiers anyway, but they were great foot soldiers. and so me being a veteran, me and only veteran in the race, that is been tremendous support for me all over the district. and so thank you guys. god bless you and you all have a good night. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. lets get to extinguish their roof, yeah. oh, alright, look. i am gonna put it down here. you know what, you are gonna put the camera in the same place. you are gonna let me do it. ready? are we ready? go. you gotta stay at last. you can do it, do it. do it, do it. just say it real loud. ready? go. alright, alright. thank you. yo, i wanna talk about the magnetic pin right? what about it, friends? i saw you over there, man. god bless you, brother. thank you for your attention. congratulations, man. thank you, brats. god bless you, brats. thank you. thank you, brats. thank you. thank you, brats. thank you, brats. thank you, brats. thank you, brats. thank you, brats. we take you home. hi. i am here with the mic. the whole party was closed for me. it is a joke. it must be the person who said it was... i ask davie said we will figure that out when we get there unless i will not be just you are too low-bright yourself oh we got a new job we got a new job now i gotta get the hell out of you oh where is why do we get her first how is i do not see a problem with the customer! ha ha ha oh i can feel bad for the younger i mean he is got a putty inside the bag. he did. so i mean i would. that is an old piece of metal. he is got a little bit. he is got a little bit. you know this one. it is an old piece. you always cut that too. it is $1. hey. how is it going? you know what i mean? wait. i am going to stick up. no. it is going to be a little bit. the original sock. the sailboat. so anything from the big race beat? okay. okay. we need to get a sailboat from the big race beat. just sit in there. yeah. yeah. you are going to be alive, everything's gone. you know what i mean? i am going to be alive, everything's gone. you know what i mean? i am going to be alive. i am going to be alive. i am going to be alive. i am going to be alive. i am going to be alive. i am going to be alive. i am going to be alive. i am going to be alive. hey. what is the rest of the last bar fight? what is the rest of the last bar fight? the rest of the ride. what is the name? what is the last word? three, six, zero, one. three, six, zero, one. three, six, zero, one. three, six, zero, one. three, six, zero, one. check, check, check. check, check, check. check, check, check. one, two, testing, one, two. check, check, check. check, check, check. check, check, check. check, check, check. check, check.