two more police officers shot and wounded early this morning while serving a search warrant in georgia. it is an incident which left the suspected attacker dead. there is been a recent alarming wave of shootings targeting police officers. it is a record numbers of cops fatally shot on the job this year alone. my next guest is saying, you know what, that is inspired him to introduce a new bill that would make any attack on law enforcement, a hate crime in the state of california. he is republican state assembly, uj over an ot program now. sir, thanks for joining us on the show. can you tell us a little bit about the bill and the history of it just quickly? well, certainly. last july, i was very alarmed to hear about the five police officers in dallas that were basically assassinated just as a result of their profession. there were five others that were seriously wounded. and then just 10 days later in baton rouge, louisiana, three more police officers were gunned down. and that really inspired me to raise awareness of this issue by introducing assembly bill two, which would add the status as a peace officer to the list of things that constitute a hate crime in california. mr. o'blaner, the criticism has been that, you know, the class of the groups of people that are protected under the hate crime laws. they are vulnerable. cops can defend themselves. they have weapons. what do you say to that criticism? well, i do not think it makes much sense to me. if you look at the definition of a hate crime, it is a crime in which the victim is chosen not out of specific animosity towards them as an individual, but rather out of hostility towards the entire group that they represent. and if you look at the, these ambush style police attacks in the last year, they fit the very definition of what a hate crime is and what it is, we are supposed to be protecting against. so a number of states, i think, are picking up on this, right? yes, you are right. there was a law passed in louisiana just recently that adds status as a peace officer to what constitutes a hate crime. that is what we are trying to do in california. so this is sort of like the blue lives matters legislation, right? you are in that kind of group, right? that is accurate. so how is, what has been the reaction to the state of california to your bill? it is been almost universally positive. all the law enforcement agencies are certainly in favor of it, but i think anyone that recognizes the value of the rule of law in the united states is not favor of it because if you think about it, an attack on a police officer is an attack on the rule of law, which is really an attack on the very basis of our society. what is the extra penalty if your bill passes? it becomes a hate crime in the state of california to assault a police officer? what would the, or kill? what would the extra penalties be? well, if you are also charged under california's hate crime law, it would depend on what the underlying offense was, but in general for a felony, would add one to three years in state prison for the commission of that crime. and it is also important to note that this is not any assault on a peace officer that would be covered. this is only assaults that are targeted specifically against police officers because they are police officers. so for example, the two peace officers in georgia earlier today that were shot, you know, certainly deplorable, certainly something that we would dislike, but not a hate crime when they are, when they are injured in the course of their duties. assemblyman, mr. earl bonoert, thank you so much for having us, for being on the show and bringing us the story. come back with the update.