one of two cardiac breast surgeons in the house of representatives represented rashan as soon as unwabery and commitment to spend our specialty and all of surgery in the place of significant regulatory challenges. dr. rashan led the congressional effort to block cms for making a dangerous change and how cms pays surgeons. without his intervention, cms proposal to eliminate global surgical payments would have been detrimental to beneficiary care, interdeferts to improve and coordinate healthcare and increase administrative burdens. in acting truly, a place considered healthcare reforms that protect the patient's doctor relationship as among his top legislative priorities, it is continuing to be a champion for surgeons and patients alone. we are proud to recognize dr. rashan, an sts member with the inaugural sts legislator of the year award and please join me in thanking him for his dedication. so i was an intern on his service and he fell home. it was a july 3rd for work and he had a level of expectation, of course, about our quality of our presentation. of course, we did not know on the intern and the fellow who was new also was the first your fellow. and after the end of that, he said it more aggressively than i will say today. he said, essentially, that if you guys do not shake up, you are not going to make it another program. and i was an intern in my first month and i had three months of cardiac surgery and subsequently i am an on-the-keyed friend and i am seeing you say, except me to this program. and these are easy great guys. but from that, to my chairman, a former future chairman, saying i might not make it another month, it is a war today. it is something i could have narrowed that up. and i cannot tell you how grateful i am to this. i mean that. and getting to meet you all. and over the years, since i have been in congress, many of the people that i said, that is very my general serve your residency, carded up to your residency, reading their chapters and textbooks. i have had the opportunity to meet through doing this job. it is just been an amazing year. and thank you very much for this kind of words about global surgical payments. i also want to give a shout out to the comment doctor and mommy barrett from california on the democrats side because we have to have a bipartisan effort to make this happen. and you know, i convinced peter vayner and our leadership that he convinced this was closed in the early year, that what cms was doing was a very bad idea. and we actually did not have a very difficult time convincing them. but we did. and that is really an amazing thing where two members of congress can have an impact on a nation like that. imagine an impact at a cms, eliminate global surgical payments. and so it is humbling to me to be part of that. and i just will be front-sale on my desk in my office. it is great, appreciate it. i also appreciate your ongoing input, like i said in the early discussion. it is critically important for people like you all that are actually in the field practicing our specialty to be here in washington and talking to legislators and talking to people in the executive branch about the issues that affect your ability to take care of them. and people like me, i am not a herself, right? you can call me out, but i am saying, god, i will get to recent west texas staff on that one, we will go from there. but other legislators who are agree with the direction and supportive of medicine, if they are not in health care, it is important for you to talk to them directly. and really pitch it and make sure that they understand the significance of the issue. and when you do that, i think we have a good chance of going to the right direction.