thank you very much, mr. chairman. i would like to ask your support for a very simple amendment to the bill we are considering today. this amendment would shift $25 million of funding from department of justice general funds to the dea for the express purpose of enforcing federal law on the illegal cultivation of marijuana. this is an enormous issue for my district. and to be clear, we are not talking about a few people growing plants in their backyard. these are hundreds of acres with hundreds of thousands of plants. and also to be clear, we are not talking about legal cultivation of marijuana. marijuana cultivation is legal in my home state. it is legal in several of the different jurisdictions that i represent. but we are talking about illegal cultivation of marijuana. and the problem with this is the folks who are willing to break the one law in cultivating marijuana illegally are willing to break many more laws. and it is causing an enormous stress on the people that i represent. these grows, it would boggle your mind if you saw the scale of these grows. these grows are bulldozed in the middle of the desert. they are surrounded by a 10 foot high bulldozed, earthen berm with a gate on the front. and the reason for the berm is not to keep people out. it is to keep people in. the majority of the workers at these grows are trafficked across the border. it is a human catastrophe. these people are forced to work here as slaves. they are working with stolen water. we estimate that about 3 million gallons a day of water is stolen to operate these grows just in the state of california. they are stealing power, megawatts of power. and they are also using band pesticides that are legal nowhere in california. in fact, nowhere in the united states. these pesticides are so toxic, in fact, that the law enforcement officers who have destroyed the plants involved in some of these grows have come up with full body rashes afterwards as a result of these toxins. and unfortunately, the wash off those toxins winds up in the groundwater. so this is a catastrophe for everyone involved, including the folks who are trying to follow the law and pursue legal marijuana cultivation. and unfortunately, local law enforcement agencies are completely overwhelmed. the san bernardino county sheriff's department currently estimates we have 800 of these grows that we are tracking just in that one county. and they estimate with the current workload that they have and the personnel they have to devote to the problem. it is going to take them three years to work through it. and this is a crop whose commercial lifetime is three months. so i hope you are going to appreciate the problem. this is a modest investment in federal enforcement for this law. and this problem, it is appropriate for the federal government to get involved. it is just going to shift from one district to another as these criminal enterprises shift from one place to another. so it is a common sense and a very modest solution to a very serious problem. and i would like to respectfully request your support for this amendment. i yield back. and forgive me, texas, that activity is not legal. so i would not know the difference between a legal grow and an illegal grow, they are all illegal. so how do you identify? well, what is the parameters that are followed or not followed for an illegal grow? so thank you for the question, congressman. so in california, proposition 64, which is the law that legalized the cultivation of marijuana, allowed each individual local jurisdiction to determine whether or not cultivation would be legal there. so in my district, i represent 13 cities. two cities have made it legal. and the county has made it illegal, which means that in unincorporated areas, it is legal. so it is only legal in two of the 13 cities i represent. but also in california, there is a very strict framework that comes along with illegalization. individual plants are tracked from birth to death. the product is tracked. there are taxes, fees and fees pays at each stage of the licensure. so it is very clear who is doing it legally and who is doing it illegally. but the other thing that look for is the scale. the illegal grows are a much larger scale than the legal grows. individual illegal grows can be hundreds of acres and hundreds of thousands of plants. and that is why it is such a catastrophe for the people who live in the neighborhoods where these grows are located because over half of them are controlled by international cartels. according to law enforcement, my constituents have been shot at. my constituents have been harassed. they do not feel safe in their own homes. and in california, unfortunately, illegal cultivation at any scale is merely a misdemeanor. and that is why it is up to the dea to enforce this, because the dea has tools that local law enforcement cannot bring to bear without tying it to a larger crime such as money laundering. so for example, wire tap authorizations cannot be pursued by local law enforcement. they could be pursued by the dea. so let me ask this if i could and i appreciate your answer. is asset forfeiture ever invoked with any of these illegal grows if it is a federal law that is violated? that is another tool that the dea can use that local law enforcement cannot, because unfortunately, california state law, because this is only a misdemeanor that we are talking about. they cannot even bulldoze the hot houses. they make shift greenhouses that are housing these plants, because the people that own the house could then bring a suit against law enforcement claiming the illegal destruction of property. the only thing that they can do is physically destroy the plants.