congressman obernolte, a president biden's announcement that u.s. airspace would be closed to all russian flights, brought democrats and republicans to their feet during the state of the union address. it is another one of the sanctions imposed by the u.s. and our allies on russia and the wake of its unprovoked invasion of ukraine. is the u.s. doing enough? and how would you assess president biden's handling of this situation? well, i was very happy to hear the president talk about closing airspace. it is something that we that i personally have been advocating for over the last couple of days. and certainly the vast majority of congress joins the president in supporting strong economic sanctions against russia to disincentivize the kind of behavior that they are exhibiting. however, there are a lot of us myself included who feel that the president has not gone far enough in some areas of the economic sanctions. in particular, the energy sector is currently exempted. and that is russia's biggest export is oil and natural gas, and it is their biggest source of foreign currency. so if we really intend for these sanctions to be taken seriously, we have to include the energy sector. the reason why i think the administration has avoided that is it is a political conundrum for them. if we include energy in the sanctions against russia, that is going to drive up u.s. energy costs for american consumers even more than they already have been. and the only solution for that is something that the administration has staunchly opposed over the last 18 months, which is increasing domestic energy production. so that is what i think that the president really needs to do. we need to start encouraging more u.s. domestic energy production that will decrease our reliance on foreign energy and allow us to institute the sanctions that i really think are needed. iowa governor kim reynolds said this in the republican rebuttal to president biden state of the union address, quote, weakness on the world stage has a cost. and the president's approach to foreign policy has consistently been too little too late. but republicans have been criticized for seeming to be siding with russia and president putin. at least in the days leading up to the invasion, some prominent conservatives suggested that u.s. and nato support of ukraine effectively provoked russia into attacking. former president trump even said it was a, quote, smart move by president putin to send what mr. trump called, quote, the strongest piece force i have ever seen to the ukraine border before the invasion. do you agree with former president trump? was he right when he described mr. putin's actions as genius in the run-up to the invasion? well, if you want to see what the sense of congress is, all you have to do is look at that section of the state of the union speech last night. it really had the strongest bipartisan support. and when you saw the entire congress on its feet applauding, i mean, a very rare standing ovation for the president's, the president's conviction to stand by ukraine and oppose russia for his strong language about vladimir putin. you know, i think it is pretty clear that this is a broad bipartisan issue and it is pretty clear the sense of where both parties are on this issue. now, i think what you had a very good point about the fact that weakness in foreign policy encourages behavior like the behavior that russia has been exhibiting. and i think that that is, people on both sides of the aisle will agree that is fair criticism of the president's foreign policy, particularly as regards the disastrous handling of the pull out from afghanistan. i think everyone agrees that that was a catalyst in encouraging the kind of behavior that you are seeing from russia today. president biden's a state of the union address to your point did bring some rare bipartisan comedy to the congress. something we have not seen for a long time. there were moments, and as you said, when both democrats and republicans were applauding, especially with regard to the response to the russian invasion. but republicans, a marjory taylor greene and lauren bobert heckled the president during his address. one of the disruptions happened as the president urged legislation to help war veterans affected by toxins in iraq and afghanistan. among them, the president's late son who died of brain cancer. is that kind of behavior just the way it is now in congress? well, i hope not. i have only been in congress now for two years. as you know, i was in the california state legislature for six years. and i think that we set a different tone in california. i think that it is a tone that accepts the fact that there is room for bipartisan debate on issues that we disagree on. and it can be done respectfully and professionally. so i hope that that is not the tone. but also, i think it is important to realize how emotional a topic this is for a lot of people. you know, myself included, there are a lot of people in congress who feel like the death of those 13 service members last year in kabul was completely avoidable and was a direct result of the way that the withdrawal from afghanistan was handled. and so i think that that is what you are seeing when you saw those comments last night. finally, you have introduced a hr 6434, a bill aiming to protect the history of americans of japanese descent who are incarcerated in internment camps during world war ii. one of the sites. one of the camps, man's and are in your district, the bill recently passed committee. it awaits a full house vote, full disclosure. i am japanese american. i have been involved in efforts to make sure no one forgets this ugly chapter in our history. but why has this become so important to you? well, part of it is that we celebrate anniversaries to make sure that the memories of these events do not fade. and last month, we celebrated a very unfortunate anniversary. the 80th anniversary of one fdr signed the executive order that created these incarceration camps and ordered the involuntarily voluntary confinement of over 100,000 japanese americans in the united states. in retrospect, it was a terribly sad chapter in our national history. and we teach that the reason for studying histories to make sure that something like this can never happen again. so what i am trying to do with that bill is to create a historic network to celebrate these camps within the national park system. we have existing networks for things like the underground railroad and the civil rights movement. and i would like to create one for japanese american world war ii history just to raise awareness of this. and obviously, one of the best preserves of these camps is within my congressional district. it is in manzanar. it is a beautiful place, but terribly, terribly remote, a very harsh climate. and anyone that visits there will instantly see the horrible conditions that these japanese americans were forced to live in and how terribly wrong the action of the united states was. so i am very honored that so many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle agree with the need to preserve this history. as you said, this was passed out with broad bipartisan support out of the natural resources committee a couple of weeks ago. and hopefully within the next week or two, we will get a vote on the full house floor about this bill. representative jay obernolte will be tracking that one along with other things that you are doing. sir, thanks very much for your time. absolutely. it is always an honor.