june 13, 2025 transcript of remarks: governor cuomo delivers remarks at gotv rally in harlem alongside rep. adriano espaillat cuomo joined by state senator jessica ramos, assemblymember george alvarez, assemblymember manny de los santos, assemblymember eddie gibbs, assemblymember yudelka tapia we are the immigration capital of the world, and we are proud of it. and we will defend that status against mr. trump, his troops, and anyone else they want to send. and we’re going to do it together. this election day matters. it matters. it matters to fix this city. it matters to stop donald trump. and it depends on you. all we have to do is get our people out to vote. - governor andrew cuomo photos from event here governor cuomo, candidate for mayor of new york city, delivered remarks at a gotv rally in harlem, hosted by congressman adriano espaillat and a broad coalition of voters from across the city. the rally was attended by state senator jessica ramos, assemblymember george alvarez, assemblymember manny de los santos, assemblymember eddie gibbs, and assemblymember yudelka tapia. cuomo spoke about the need for an experienced leader who can fight for new yorkers, protect immigrants from president trump’s attacks, and bring a vision for a new new york city. he concluded with a call to action, urging everyone to remember that early voting starts on june 14th. a transcript of remarks is below: my friend, a real phenomenal public servant — your congressman, adriano espaillat. the congressman and i have not only done great work here in new york, here in your district, we have also worked together in the dominican republic, where we worked together as partners. we have worked together in puerto rico. we have a long history together, and we have a longer future together. one thing i am not so sure of — when the congressman calls me that heavyweight champion. i lost weight, you know. another round of applause for congressman adriano espaillat. we have another superstar with us — senator jessica ramos. assemblymember eddie gibbs. congressman, you said it exactly right. new york city — we have a lot of problems. we have a lot of issues. we love new york city, but our new york city is better than what we see today. this new york city is not what we deserve. we deserve better. we deserve a city that is safer and has more affordable housing, because it is too expensive to live in this city. first, i want to raise the minimum wage up to $20 an hour so people have more money in their pocket and new york city is more affordable. that is going to be the first thing that we do. we have to cut taxes on middle-class and working families, because the taxes are too high — and we’re going to do that. and then the most expensive item in people's lives is childcare, and this city should be providing free childcare. now, affordable housing — we know how to build affordable housing. i was the housing secretary for the united states under president bill clinton, and i built housing all across the united states. we know how to build housing. we know how to build. go look at laguardia airport. go look at moynihan train station. go look at the second avenue subway. we know how to build when we have a competent government, when we have a mayor who knows what he is doing. but we cannot have a mayor of new york city who is an amateur. we have a person running for mayor against me who has been an assemblyman for two terms — five years. he is only passed three bills. jessica passed three bills by mistake. five staff members who worked for him. new york city — you have 300,000 employees. he’s never worked with the city council, never worked with the congress, never negotiated things with the labor union, never even dealt with president trump. do not tell me he is ready to be mayor of the greatest city on the globe. no way. problem one: we’re going to get new york city up and running the way it should be. problem two is mr. president trump — the trump tsunami. president trump, who is trampling what we believe is our constitution, trampling democracy — what he did in washington, d.c., pulling a united states senator out of a hearing room — he should be ashamed of himself. sending troops into cities, declaring war against immigrants. well, i have news for him: we’re all immigrants. now, this is who he is. do not be surprised by what he is doing in los angeles — sending in troops. do not be surprised. he did it before. i know, i was there. i was governor of new york, 2020, and he sent troops into chicago, to detroit, to milwaukee, to albuquerque, indianapolis. why? because he is the commander-in-chief, and he likes to send in the troops. you know where he didn’t send troops? the one place he didn’t send troops — he didn’t send troops to new york city. that’s because mr. trump knows that he doesn’t pick a fight he can’t win. and he can’t beat new york city. not then, not now, not ever. we are the immigration capital of the world, and we are proud of it. and we will defend that status against mr. trump, his troops, and anyone else they want to send. and we’re going to do it together. this election day matters. it matters. it matters to fix this city. it matters to stop donald trump. and it depends on you. all we have to do is get our people out to vote. they know what to do. you knock on every door. bring your friend. grab your family. ten days of early voting starts tomorrow — and a new new york starts tomorrow with your help. thank you, and god bless. ### back to list