welcome to canada conversations, part of delaware debates 2016 produced by delaware public media in collaboration with the university of delaware's center for political communication with support from aarp. i am delaware public media news director tom burn. this conversation taped on the campus of delaware state university focuses on the race for u.s. house and we are joined by democrat, bishop blunt rochester. thank you very much for joining us. thank you tom. well first, talk to us a little bit about your background and what you feel like separates you from the other candidates running and makes you better suited for the job. well, i guess what i would love to share is that a more born advocate and problem solver started off in a congressional office years ago as an intern and actually became a caseworker helping people with social security disability, irs, people who became homeless. and in that job, you really get to see some of the pressing issues that individuals in our state and across our country face. i think what probably distinguishes me is that i have had over 25 years actual experience. everything from running major organizations such as serving as our state's department of labor secretary, cabinet secretary and multi-million dollar budget with hundreds of employees to working grassroots on the ground as the ceo of the metropolitan wilmington urban league in the city of wilmington where we tackled issues and really became part of, we started the hope commission and we did things that were right on the ground grassroots. and so one is experience, also traveled to many different countries around the world and had experiences there. and i think in this time we need people that have a breadth of experience and raise kids in the delaware public schools. so i know what it is like to have to deal with our education system. they graduate it from college and like 40 million other americans are now saddled with student loan debt. so college affordability is very important to me. so number one is experience. number two, a proven track record of bringing people together that sometimes typically would not even talk to each other. there was being commissioned by our governor to investigate the state police for racial discrimination and bringing together people in an effort to have a plan forward or on a host of other issues, a track record of bringing people together. and i think that is also what is necessary in dc. and last, i am probably one of the most positive, passionate people you will ever meet and engaged in public service. it is my life's passion. this is a unique race because none of the candidates in this field have been elected to statewide office. and that is often seen as a prerequisite for a job like this. what would you say to a voter who is worried about your lack of experience in that area and thus ability to go to washington and get things done? yeah, i think it is interesting because actually out of the candidates i have never run for office either. and i think one of the things that we stress and i stress when i talk about this is that our times demand something different, i think. i think our times demand something fresh and new. and if we want different, we have to do different. and if we want more, we have to do more. so for me, this is me doing more. and i think even if you look at the founding of our country, it was not a prerequisite that somebody be elected before they run. as a matter of fact, one of the things i love about the house of representatives is that it is the people's house. and so i think people like myself, people that are watching this program, we, like i said, if we want more, we have to do more. so i do not think that is necessarily a prerequisite. and it might even be a plus nowadays. and i think the other thing that i can say is that having served as our secretary of labor and our state personnel director, i can recognize what it is like for many of the businesses that are struggling out there, trying to create a great workforce and make sure our infrastructure is together. and so it really, to me, is important that people have real experience that go to washington. you mentioned joy or your ability to bring people together and do things. obviously, that has not been happening a lot in washington these days. getting things done in recent years has been very, very difficult. if elected, what do you bring to that effort to bridge the partisan divide and get things accomplished in washington? yeah. i think one of the challenges we face is the fact that people kind of put a label on somebody and then they judge from there. i think one of the fortunate things that i have been able to do working in delaware is to work across party lines, to work across generational lines, racial lines. because i just really believe that we are all in this together. there is a quote that, dr. king, and it says, we may have come over on different boats. we may have come over on different ships, but we are all in the same boat now. and i kind of feel that is where we are today. all of us are facing the challenges of the economy. all of us are facing the challenges of our school system. the whole issue of trust and government is something that as i am talking to people up and down the state, these are the things that i hear about. and then gun violence and our relationships, in terms of criminal justice reform, these are things that all of us are impacted by. you mentioned the economy. there are obviously a lot of concerns about creating and retaining jobs here in delaware. it is been front and center particularly. there is here in the wake of the adult, the pot merger. if elected, how do you help boost economic growth, raise wages, create jobs in the first state, and elsewhere in this country? i think that it is a combination of things. number one is to create an environment that is also friendly and supportive, particularly of small businesses. because they are the majority of our businesses in our state. so we want to make sure that we bring federal funds and opportunities here for those businesses and that includes how our tax system is situated. i think it is also about our education system. workforce development is also very important. not everybody is going to want to go to college. so do we have job training programs that are preparing people for the jobs of the future and the jobs that we have here so that we retain them? and then i think another big issue is our infrastructure. we have a lot of crumbling, roads, bridges. that infrastructure is really the lifeblood of our state and our country as well. and it creates jobs. so those are jobs that cannot go to another country if somebody is building a bridge right here. so to me, it is a combination of education, the environment we create for businesses, our education system, and also building our infrastructure again. what is a little bit about this summer, which has been a difficult one in many communities across this country, a number of high profile incidents of police shooting individuals and shooting police officers. that is raised a lot of tensions between law enforcement and the communities in which they serve. if elected, how can you address this issue and help to rebuild some of this trust that seems to have been lost? yeah, i think trust is one of the key words that you mentioned. you know, i asked earlier about what also distinguishes me. and i can say one of the things that distinguishes me is that of all the candidates, i am probably the only mother that had to jump out of her bed at 11 of the clock and go to edge more community center when her son was stopped by the police. it gets me emotional thinking about it because it is something that we live with every day. and so part of it, having had that experience, but also having had the experience of working with the delaware state police in particular on issues like building strong communities in sussex county and kent county, it brings a unique perspective. when i had to investigate the state police, what we did was we brought experts from john j college of criminal justice, who the police respected, along with clinton administration folks who focused on eeo and affirmative action, who were trusted by the urban league and they were trusted by larosa and the naacp. and we said, let us come together and figure out a path forward. but that took a lot of first finding common ground. like, what do we all really believe in? what do we say and how do we really act upon it? and it took a lot of work and trust building. and i do think that that is a part of it. i go also back to the economic opportunity, which is one of the, probably the pillar of my campaign, is that, you know, when people have purpose and they have a reason to live and actually have economic opportunities, sometimes we do not end up in the prison system. we do not end up maybe in health and social services where i served as deputy secretary and saw some of the challenges there to meet economic opportunity and living your purpose as a big piece of it as well. so i think it is one of those important conversations even about race that we just do not really, really talk about. we talk past each other sometimes. so for me, it starts with finding out where we have common ground because we do. the other issue out there is the issue of terrorism, security threats today both internationally and domestically. how can you, if elected, address that and kind of the difficulty of keeping america both safe and free at the same time? yeah. i actually worked for a little bit. the year that i investigated the state police, i got an assignment in jordan in the middle east and it was the same year 9-11 had happened and it was after 9-11 and i was asked by, through usaid funding to advise the minister of labor on workforce issues. and living in the middle east, it was a very life-changing experience. again, back to the common ground piece, you know, i learned a lot even about islam in that experience and one-on-one with families who we just connected on so many other issues. they were complaining about the same things we were complaining. oh, the education system stinks here and how are we going to pay for this wedding? and there were those things that were common bonds between us. and for me as somebody who studied international relations in school, you know, i do believe there is an opportunity for peace. i do believe that and i think part of it starts with people like me, us stepping forward and saying, i want to be a part of a positive solution. i do not think it is about building walls. i do not think it is about separating us. i think it is about finding those opportunities just like i said here in our own country where we can come together. economic opportunity helps. i think that helps. but i think it starts with the basic belief that we are in this together. you alluded to a little bit there and that answer. immigration kind of flows through a lot of these issues that we have talked about both undocumented immigrants in the us and america, opening its doors to immigrants and refugees from war-torn countries like syria. where do you stand on the immigration issue? in terms of immigration, i believe there should be a path to citizenship. i believe our country was actually built on immigrants and people, some who came on purpose and some who did not, as we know. and i definitely believe that we should have that path to citizenship. i think that it is unfortunate that some of the rhetoric out there is, again, it is just divisive and for political purposes, as opposed to the practicalities of how you run a country even, how you live in a global society. the reality is we benefit from people who come into our country, from their brains, from their wisdom, from their experiences as well. i do think you do want to balance that with being safe. i think there is such a thing as being smart about your safety as well and it is the same true with you as an individual. so, i definitely support a path to citizenship for immigrants. we have talked a couple times about education when i asked specifically about that one thing the president obama has proposed is making two years of community college free for all americans. where do you stand on that issue? and more broadly, the federal government's role in education from pre-k all the way through college. i think start with the federal government's role. i definitely believe that there is a role. even looking at the changes that have shifted from no child left behind to every student succeeds at, i think it is going to be a challenge to really, as money is giving to the state level, kind of shrinks somewhat. so, it is more of a role of watching, making sure that we are monitoring, making sure that funds are going there, making sure that if they are discretionary funds we receive them. but i also think it goes all the way back to not just pre-k, but even before that. what kind of healthcare system do we have? i mean, we talk about the affordable care act. are kids coming to school ready to learn? are they being basically not getting the resources because of the zip code that they live in? i do not think that that is right. and so, for me, everything from education funding to monitoring what happens to make sure that we have standards are important. on the college of fortability, that one is another personal one for me, because i have two children who are still paying student loans. they are still paying a parent loan. they graduated from college. my son is 30. and, you know, in my daughter's 27. and to me, whether it is two years free for community colleges, which i think our community colleges are one of our greatest resources, to the pell grants and not limiting those. and also, people having the ability to refinance those loans, because, you know, again, that debt prohibits them from being contributing, you know, citizens to our country. so, i do not like to mention that, you know, but shoot, my daughter's still living with me because she is paying for student loans. so, we want to make sure that our young people actually are able to, they are doing the right things they should not be penalized for. lisa blan rochester, democratic party candidate for us house. thank you for being with us today. thank you. and you can find all of our candidate conversations online at dellorpublic.org and dellordebates.org. candidate conversations are taped at delaware state university and are part of delaware debates 2016, produced by delaware public media in collaboration with the university of delaware's center for political communication with support from aarp. thanks for watching.