my name is lisa blunt rochester and i am a congressional candidate here in the state of delaware. i will tell you that tonight is a very important night. this debate for me is probably one of the most important because we are not just talking about delaware and representing delaware, but we are also talking about our country and the world. and so for me i am really blessed to have here with me my parents ted and alice blunt, who this week were married 55 years and so we were married. the reason why i bring them up is because my mother reminded me on the way in here that as a little girl, different cultures have always been important to me. it is why over 30-something years ago i studied international relations as my undergraduate degree. it is always been important to me to recognize that we are connected and that if we only do each other better, maybe we would not experience some of the wars and some of the challenges that we face in our world today. so i will tell you, for me i have been fortunate to live and travel and work in many places across the world. and in that time i have also seen many extremes, extremes of poverty and ethiopia, also extremes of wealth and shanghai where i lived. i have been able to work for kings and jordan and also work with orphans in china. and again it became clear to me that we are connected and that we are strong by that connection. and for me it was about creating better communities right here in our own city, the city of wilmington where i was ceo of the metropolitan wilmington urban league. and we worked on tough challenges like how to find jobs and how to deal with the achievement gap on education and health care and civil rights on the community. as a state, i was fortunate to serve as your secretary of labor and also your state personnel director, where i got to see what it was like to try to find jobs for individuals, make sure that we have a strong economy, a strong working economy, and what it is like to be the biggest employer in the state and some of the challenges employers have had. and also to develop a better world, better communities, better state and a better world, working on kingham dulles' poverty alleviation strategy, advising the minister of labor, and also working in china at helping women reinvent themselves. for me, these are not just talking points. this is my life's work. this is my passion. this is part of the purpose. and so in all these roles, one of the things that we cannot very clear is that when we are together, our collective success really depends on all of us, not just some of us, having real opportunities. and that is what my campaign is really about. it is about opportunity. that is it in a nutshell. it is about economic opportunities, which is tied to education, which is tied to crime, which is tied to terrorism. it is tied to so many things. and so i am excited to be here tonight, and i am excited for the conversation. and i thank you so much for hosting, and i look forward to the debate. thank you. i look forward to doing so effectively on financial services. i love that question, because your question is, who is ready to hit the ground running on day one? that is really the question. and so i want to first start off by sending for quite probably mr. barney, some of us have had experience working on a federal level that will be me. i have actually worked for congress and the carpenter, and one of the things that i had to do in that role was inform of what legislation was coming out, because i was working with the people right here in delaware, helping you with social security, helping you with the irs or the housing. and that was really important to inform that process. then as your secretary of labor, i was fortunate to also be involved with welfare reform here that became a model for the national welfare reform. and so i was really honored to actually be in the rose garden when that bill was signed by the president. so one is we do have an experience on that level. number two, there was an issue about whether it is a prerequisite to be an elected official. i do not think so. what i love about congress is that it is the peoples' house. and so when you look at who is represented in congress, there are a multitude of professions, and there is a lot of things that i think are from social workers to doctors. so i do not think that is a prerequisite. number three, your question was about getting the ground right. and for me, one of the things that i tried to do on this campaign, in addition to talk to people of the state of delaware, is also reach out to potential colleagues who i hope when i am elected, i will be working with, because delaware has one long seat. we have one seat, so we need to have good relationships with people. kristin gillibrand from new york who has endorsed us to keep ellison, who is the first person to serve in congress, has endorsed our candidacy and expressed an interest in helping. and in addition to that, the committees, in addition to financial services, which i think we have to maintain, for me, a dream committee would be the energy in congress. energy in congress is something that cuts across, cuts across health, because across our economy and has shortly had a strong economy. that is a committee that is important to me. and then the last thing i would add is that we just brought on a staff and a person, a little titian bracelet who is in the back, and actually has had experience starting and running these offices, having work for harper, violet, and now coons, and now coming to work with our team. so i am excited because we are ready to hit this morning, running for day one. woohoo! thank you. the additional guns is proudly my best, very close to myself, and a lot of people in this audience, whether they have lost a family member or whether it was part of their job. when i served as ceo of the urban league, one of the major areas that we focused on was gun violence, and in that we created the hope commission, the delaware hope commission, and it was one of those major things that really started looking at this issue years ago. i think to your question about whether the role is a federal or a state one, i think it is a joint one. i think it is a community one. it is not just the laws that we pass. and for us, we have an eight point plan that anybody can go to lisa1roygester.com to read all eight points. but i think that there are some factual things that we can do, many of which you have heard of, about closing coupons and background checks and assault questions. and i think starting from a federal level and giving some leadership is an important place to start, but it really is a joint venture with the hope star hope committee. it is because health care is one of the issues that in addition to economic opportunity has kind of attracted the course of my career from debt and concertary of health and social services to urban league, c.k.o. health care was an incredible and important experience and also a state personnel director. and i thought about it from different vantage points, one from the prevention piece. i think that congress and echiro doewer as well, we can be doing a better job in terms of funding prevention programs, not just for children, but also for our seniors. you mentioned diabetes in particular. i think when you look at it also, we look at health disparities in our state and people of color are disproportionately impacted on particularly diabetes, but if you look down the whole handful, whether it is hiv, aids, whether it is cancer, any of them. and so number one is prevention. another is access. and so the affordable care act, as we all know, is here, but there are some things that can be done to make it strumple. and i think that is important that we all commit that we do not want to go backwards. we want to go forwards when people have access to affordable and quality care. and affordability is one of the key words in there. the other thing i thought about is the environment. a lot of times we do not make that connection, but there is truly a connection between our health status and the environment, particularly here in delaware when we start talking about issues such as cancer. so from a federal perspective, there are roles for us as congress people as it pertains to the environment as well. and the last thing i will mention, even though you did not bring out is mental health care. mental health, to me, is one of the things that is impacting on our environment, our way of being, and how we are even talking to each other. so i would just add that there is another piece to the pie in terms of what we can do in congress. so your question is about the health of american democracy and can you name finance? i can tell you, being a first-time candidate, this has been a very interesting process. i have been fortunate to have a father who has served in city council in lone, and even served as city council president. and so i am used to grassroots non-unordores talking to people. i am used to that. i was not used to the notion that these campaigns are so expensive and take up so much time. and it was a challenge for me. and i have been fortunate that, you know, to have the support of folks up and down the stage who have given them from $5 to the max for a person who is never run before, like i said, i am really humbled by that. and even when i ask questions about campaign finance reform, and there are some things that are happening across the country that are for public finance, and there are examples of that. the whole idea of ending citizens united, which i think is probably the number one thing that many of us would suggest is an answer. and i have to tell you, this is one of the reasons i am running, because if we do not change this, there are no conversations about what the laws have ever been. if we do not fix this, then none of us can step up and do this who have never done it before. i did not have a role in the decks of 1,500 lawyers or doctors or friends. i started with nothing, and ten months ago. and so this is a key issue. and one of the things i would say is a solution is disclosure. you need to know and see who is giving the money, where it is going, and then hold people accountable. that is one answer i do know works. it is disclosure and accountability. but for me, ending citizens united would be, if i had to pick that one thing, that is maybe one you would start a constitutional event. in terms of what skills i have bring to this and what connections i will bring to this, well first of all, the key to my platform is the action jobs. jobs is the thing that for me connects to a good economy, connects to our education system, and makes sure that our workforce is well cared and educated, whether you are going to college or whether you are not going to work. it is really important to me that we have a well-versed job workers. so jobs is important to me. i think part of that requires us to set a culture and a climate view that supports entrepreneurs and that supports businesses. that is everything from our infrastructure. do we have the roads and bridges that are outdated? those are jobs that cannot necessarily be as important. so number one can we invest in our infrastructure and that is something that we can do in congress, as plumebs and primordium. number two, that infrastructure also includes it. it includes the fact that in town, state, many folks do not even have access to broadening networks. so it is important as well as part of our infrastructure. the other thing is what we do in terms of our tax code and what we do in terms of incentives to bring businesses to delaware and support the businesses that we have. our small businesses are over 90% of what represents our economy. so it is really important that we invest in that. the other piece of our engine is that i have been visiting farms. and it is interesting, even the farms now are using technology. everything they are doing is technology based. and so making sure that our young people are prepared is really important as well as investing in our small businesses, our farms, and then diversifying what we bring here. what we also say that we delaware really has those also strong is our proximity, which is that location, our trains, the access to our port. those things are actually helpful and track down businesses that are retaining them as well. and in terms of connections, i think i have some pretty good connections. in addition to working as labor and state personnel director, we are also working with the issues that we have as well. so that is my point. this is a really difficult question. and sort of circles back to the first question for me about why i am even running. when you talk about any of those actors every day that they pick up a paper, a new one rises to the top. and so for me, i would probably say that isis is the one that concerns me because i just, again, all over the world, they are screening. i mean, it is one thing to know that we have russia and we are dealing with ukraine and we have china. but in new greece, one day it is france. the next day, it is a city possibly right here in our own country. and so for me, it gets to, again, the heart and soul of who are we and where are we going as a nation and as a world. and the ability to radicalize people, to reach out to young people, to all around the world. so to me, each of them will probably change from day to day. but if we own a tag and underline some of the group causes that are dealing with our contributing to the growth of some entity such as isis, i think that hurts us all. and that, it tax into new year weapons. we do not know the way to 30 hands over those. and so to me, it is about security and safety, coupled with our civil liberties. but isis is the direct to me, the news. your question was about aggression versus leading from behind. and i think i am a first dog off by saying i do not think our president has led from behind. and not to let those kind of people back together. actually, not gonna want to mention that i think you meant it. that i am a feminist and a exists who sensitivity i think a lot of what we talked i heard about recently about dyslomophobia and issues like that are i get it and i really get it as a woman running in the state of delaware having never run for office before that people sometimes have preconceived notions. and people sometimes may assumptions about you the way you dress or the way you wear your hair or a wrap your hair. and then for me this process has been very humbling and i am standing on the shoulders of a lot of people, a lot of people. so i take it really seriously down here and you know it is feel fear is what is calling a lot of the the hisms that we are seeing around the world. and for me just a whole notion of stepping up and doing something you know is important. so number one i like i said i believe that there is a balance between aggression there are times we are we are going to have to not be afraid to step up and believe step up for the phase that we believe. but at the same time i do believe that diplomacy is a part of what has made us break as a country. i think diplomacy is one of the things that has brought peace to places that sometimes did not have it. and for me as your congressperson what i will bring is that understanding that people's stereotypes are irrelevant. we still have to do the work we still have to do it together and then we need to really respect each other for where we stand. and not just tolerate but appreciate it. the same with me like our delegation our congressional delegation but what i did say is that i had concerns and i started concerns. we maybe had caused something that made a challenge for us. so i am also concerned i do not do the only because there are so obvious unocies with me. so the final answer is that i believe in peace as possible and i start with that premise. i also believe in a two-state solution really and i think the ceasing the development of the settlements just like ceasing the violence across the border. the borders is important to any beginnings of real peace conversations. and your question was also how could we promote dignity for palestinians? i think that was one of the other parts of the question. and i think that the promotion of dignity i think kind of goes back to even how people are portrayed in our country. and what we even see in our media, what we even hear is part of the promotion of anyone. and so in terms of promoting dignity i think that that is something that is important to be as far as to. and then the last thing i would say is that i think that in order for us to have any kind of real peace process, it takes people that are really committed to making that happen. and that is committed to making that happen. i would really like to thank you for your question. it is a very important question and it is a very personal question for me. it is important on two fronts. one as a mother, i have a son, alex, who just turned 30 years old. and alex was actually stopped by the police around the edgemore community center at about 11 of the clock one night when he was in college. and i remember him calling me and me jumping out of my bed in my pajamas and running to that stop sign where he was stopped. there is a feeling that you cannot describe when your son is stopped. so i approach it from a very personal place. number two, i approach it from a professional place. as delaware state personnel director, it was my job to investigate the state police, for racial and sexual discrimination. in 2002, before the conversations were happening nationally. and at that time, i will tell you, it was a very heavy challenge because it was bringing together the urban league, the naacp, larassa, the state police, and then saying to the state police, there were people that you trust, like john j. college of criminal justice, that we brought into delaware to come up with a plan and a plan of action for them. one of the things that i really learned from that process was that there were kind of four steps. one was acknowledging that there is a problem. a lot of times we do not even acknowledge it. even the fact that there is a debate about whether to say black lives matter, all lives matter, black lives matter 2 is a problem. so first we have to acknowledge that something is going on. then we have to do the due diligence. we have to find out what would change things. what are some of those best practices? as he said, whether it was training how we hire all of those things, training hiring, the culture. i interviewed every colonel going back to 1967 to understand their culture because they have a culture as well. so number two is doing that due diligence. number three is acting. a lot of times we talk a lot. we talk a lot. but you kind of do something with all of that talk. one of the things that excites me are the courageous conversations that are not happening around this country. even the church that is on copper pipe and their work to come out. because to me, that is what is going to help us. the civil rights movement, all these rights movements were because it was not just that group, but it was allies that came together to move us across the line. and the last piece is accountability. we got a whole people accountable. they cannot just come to election time, show up. they cannot accountability. you cannot say that you changed the system with no ice holding anybody accountable. laws. if people do things they need to reap the benefits. lastly, i would just say that the imam and his associate that just passed this week. it breaks your heart. it breaks your heart that every day you start to see these things. and you know that it goes all the way back to talk radio. the way people are talking to each other is toxic. and so part of the change is us believing that there are allies out there that can work with us. and for us, whether you are a millennial or whether you are a senior, to step up and be a part of the civil regime. the next question is, thank you for your question. and to your question about what i support trade schools as our secretary of labor, to me, the fact that not everyone will choose to go to college or wants to go to college is an important factor. and so to support our trade is important to square our ice foods in our vocational technical high schools is important as well. i would also really want to touch on the fact that there is a, needs to be a connection between what we need in the workforce and what we are, you know, graduating from high school, trade school, or college. labor market information is very valuable to us in the state. and that is one of the things that we focused on when i was a secretary of labor was to know that not only are we made sure that our trade is tied to that. for example, we do not want 50 million college mortologists, it will we really need our healthcare workers right now. and so we want to encourage people. the same is to extend or seem with which i refer, which is not just the technology but also the arts. the steam is also important as well. i thought someone clapped and was steam. and i think that is really important as well. that we do not just limit ourselves to someone also to see and that we focus on the, what is the future. the last piece of information is that there are 40 million americans that are in debt right now because of college affordability. one of the cities of the audience, my daughter is listening. i love you. but that is not the channel. for many families, they have facing right now. and so for me, college affordability is equally important as making sure that we get high-con through trade school and other options. and i will say, as i have given her a good look, she graduated with a master's in social work. and actually as part of her job, she worked at our no-brainer trans conditioning, kids with disabilities, into work or into her college. so thank you little bit. essentially all the videos, but i do not know. so my position on tep is that i am against it. i am for trade. i am going to speak clearly about that. but i am for fair trade, not just for trade. there were many concerns about that agreement when it was first brought up, some of which was the process that was used in terms of lack of people even being included in that process. and so the people are not included in the process. they do not know what is happening. and i know those words in their own way, they just trust. but they also concerned from past trade agreements. and so people did not see those results that they wanted to see there. and i can go ahead and trust on this. there are a couple of reasons why i am in concerns. one is about human rights. i did in china. and i actually, what experience they selected seeing construction being put up with no steel-erotions or hard-hands. and so making sure that people are safe is important, not just here. but also making sure our jobs are safe. and then we had jobs here. the others are so concerned from a low and so much protection perspective. we are not receiving products that are not a standard or a top-up. the other piece is about currency manipulation. and then with tpp, you are really serious concerns about whether the currency will be manipulated. that will require our economy as well. so for me, tpp is a problem. i understand that we live in a global world. but if jobs is my own one priority, then we need to actually, as smart trade, not just for jobs.