sherry, claire, thank you so much for putting this together. i was actually in philadelphia earlier this week for the president's speech, and there was a woman standing on the corner with a big liberty bell sign that said, for the people, and she was telling people they got to go out to the rallies in their own state. and i was able to say to her, well, i am going to be on one in delaware. so here we are today in delaware. this morning, i simply came to do two things. one, to remember and honor an incredible man. and two, as a call to action. to remember an incredible man and to have a call to action. and across this country right now, we know that voting rights are under attack. and for me, i was saying to matt meyer, our can be executive, that this was a challenging warning for me. a couple people on my team tried to write speeches to help for this event. and i was so weighted down with the heaviness. i could feel john lewis's spirit. and i could feel it. i could feel it. i could feel it. and even as i look out at all of you, i think of john. i think of the fact that i was blessed to serve with him. i think of the fact that he fought and died and bled for our right to vote. and then he recognized how precious and important it was. and so as i thought about the moment that we are in, that across this country, while voting rights are being attacked, and even according to the brennan center for justice, state voter suppression legislation is happening in over 48 states in our country, over almost 400 bills. did you hear me? almost 400 pieces of legislation in 48 states trying to stop us from having the right to vote. and what was it based on? as claire said, it was based on a big lie. let me hear you say, the big lie. the big lie was a big lie. then we got supreme court gutting the voting rights act, gutting it as we speak. and then in arizona, hard to believe, but people are still trying to count votes. are you kidding me? they are still trying to count votes. they are looking at bamboo and maybe bringing in pandas. this is incredible to me. incredible. but we know that the department of homeland security said 2020 was the most secure election we have ever had in our nation. most secure. give us a round of applause for that too. so this morning, hearing john lewis's spirit, i was reminded of a verse that says, the race is not given to the swift nor to the strong, but to the one that endures, to the one that endures, to the one that endures. and you know what he said? it is our time to take the baton. the baton is ours. that is right. thank you. from jerry mandarin, voter suppression, voter subversion, intimidation, and believe me, i know intimidation. believe me, i do. i am proud that we here today recognize the sense of urgency. now is the moment. and for those of you who know dj khaled, he would probably say, they do not want you to vote. anybody know dj khaled? any young people in the audience? thank you, kobe. they do not want you to vote. but i am proud to be a co-sponsor of hr1 before the people act. i am proud that i was able to vote on the hr4, the john lewis act, and the last congress, and we will be voting on it again. yeah. woo! we know it is things like same-day registration, automatic voter registration, two weeks of early voting, returning citizens and free registering young people, free registering young people, our seniors, and people with disabilities, being able to have that freshest vote. again, the race is not given to the swift, nor to the strong, but to the one that endures. i am also reminded of a song that they sang during the civil rights movement that we still sing in our churches. it is wall together children. do not you get weary. wall together children. do not you get weary. right now, we are feeling a little weary. some of us are feeling a little weary, but i'ma tell you, the way we get rid of weary is to once again. so that is why we are here together. that is why all of these organizations got together. that is why they are doing this across the country, because we are going to once again together to that great promise land. 50 years ago, john lewis addressed us at the march on washington. 50 years later, he was able to stand with the first african american president. and he spoke of racial justice, mass incarceration, immigration, homelessness, poverty, hunger, and voting rights. and as he finished his remarks, he proclaimed, we must never, ever give up. we must never, ever give in. we must keep the faith and keep our eyes on the prize. so as we marked this one year since john left us, i have to tell you, i think about him a lot. i think about his quiet strength, his awesome bravery, his fierce conviction, how he liked the dance to the song, happy. i think about john alive. i also think of him in the most challenging times. on january 6, that morning, it was john lewis, who i thought about, as i walked into the capitol. it was john lewis who i thought about as i said, have my desk trying to determine, should i wear this boot or that boot? because i do not know what might happen. not knowing that i was about to face an insurrection and be in the capitol gallery when it took place stuck. it was john i thought about. it was our ancestors i thought about. it was my parents, like my dad had lunch. give my dad a round of applause. go ahead. thank you, man. my grandmother is my grandfather. because some of you know i carried this scarf with me from the day that i was sworn in that had that hex mark donated to allow my great, great, great, great grandfather to have the right to vote from georgia. from georgia, the returns of qualified voters and reconstruction over. and still, karen, since the day i was sworn in, i carried as my inspiration and my proof of what we have been through. i think a john often. but i will also tell you that john would tell us, never give up. we find ourselves confronting a lie as big as they come. and we find ourselves confronting those who want to try to sell us suppression, cloak, and security. most secure election ever. so as we come together to honor john, our commitment is not just to talk, but to walk the walk, to walk together. it is our time to get in necessary good trouble. now i am not talking about scale in the walls of the capital crazy trouble. i am not talking about illegal trouble. i am not talking about unpainty, not it trouble. because that is what that was, unpainty, i. i am talking about good trouble. the kind of trouble that will make a delegation of legislators stand up and walk out of the chambers and trace them. and i am talking about the trouble of the chambers and travel across the country to protect the right to vote. that is good trouble. i am talking about good trouble where the chairwoman of the congressional black caucus joyce baby will stand armed with brothers and sisters and say, we will not be moved until you do something. good trouble. i am talking about this kind of good trouble where we come together as citizens and we are unified that we must pass hr one. we are unified that we must have a hr four and pass hr four because voting rights are on the table. and we will not let progress be stopped by process. i am going to say that again in a little way. process cannot and will not stop progress. i am going to say it one more time. you get this in your head. sink in. process cannot and will not stop progress. hours is a higher quality. it is a call to stand up in this important time. as john said, the right to vote is the most sacred. local congress page and houses. wash street, injective bush. go ahead. as john said, i see people. this is the day that christmas comes, people that are not always looking. now, urgent this moment is we want them to know. we want them to know that this right is tied to criminal justice reform. this right is tied to health care. this right is tied to a minimum wage increase across this country. this right is tied to child care. this right is tied to our very existence, the ability for us to drink the water, and breathe the air, and even have a plan to live on. this right is the right to vote, and we need to keep the right to vote. so my words are calling and good trouble is the way. good show, i hear you, i hear you. so i will close by sharing with you. i was trying to think i was reading different speeches that john gave, even his last speech, and his last letter in the new york times and that opinion piece, he talked about children walking with the wind. and i did not understand what that meant. and so as i dug a little deeper, there is a story in some of you may have heard it, where john was playing with his cousins and his siblings outside on the ground. it was a beautiful day they are playing, and all of a sudden the clouds start rolling in. the storm starts coming. they all ever felt a storm coming. the storm was coming. so they all ran in the house, and all the family members, all of the fun and joy stopped. and they could hear the thunder, and they could hear the lightning, and they could feel the wind. and they were scared. and all of a sudden, he said he could see the edge of the corner of the house. this little shits house just shaking. and as if it was about to take off into the ground, like they were about to be taken like daughter. and all of a sudden his aunt said to them, children, grab each other's hands. lock hands. lock hands. and what i want you to do is walk to that side of the room where the danger is, where the wind is about to take up this house. and then they walked down, and it was stable. and then the wind started blowing on another side. and she said, children, walk toward the wind. this is our moment. it feels like a storm. we feel like we cannot make it. we are afraid the whole house is going to be gone. the house of representatives by legislature, you name it. but what he said was, lock hands. walk towards the wind, children. we are afraid. we are not afraid. and even if we are, we are still going to walk toward the wind. walk towards that wind. hold somebody's hand. hold somebody's hand. right now, i see. i have got you. hold somebody's hand. i have got to my person. hold somebody's hand. and know that we are in this together. and we cannot get weird. we must work harder. we must never give up. now, we must never give in. and we must keep our eyes on the prize. the prize is democracy. the prize is the beloved community. now, get in some good trouble. yes! yes! yes! yes! yes! yes!