my name is lisa blunt rochester and i am a congressional candidate here in the state of delaware. i will tell you that tonight is a very important night. this debate for me is probably one of the most important because we are not just talking about delaware and representing delaware, but we are also talking about our country and the world. and so for me, i am really blessed to have here with me my parents, ted and alice blunt, who this week were married 55 years and so we are in this. the reason why i bring them up is because my mother reminded me on the way in here that as a little girl, different cultures have always been important to me. it is why over 30-something years ago i studied international relations as my undergraduate degree. it is always been important to me to recognize that we are connected and that if we only do each other better, maybe we would experience some of the wars and some of the challenges that we face in our world today. so i will tell you, for me, i have been fortunate to live and travel and work in many places across the world. and in that time, i have also seen many extremes, extremes of poverty in ethiopia, also extremes of wealth in shanghai where i lived. i have been able to work for kings in jordan and also work with orphans in china. and again, it became clear to me that we are connected and that we are strong by that connection. and for me, it was about creating better communities right here in our own city, the city of wilmington, where i was ceo of the metropolitan wilmington urban league. and we worked on tough challenges like how to find jobs and how to deal with the achievement gap on education and health care and civil rights on the community. as a state, i was fortunate to serve as your secretary of labor and also your state personnel director, where i got to see what it was like to try to find jobs for individuals, make sure that we have a strong economy, a strong working economy, and what it is like to be the biggest employer in the state and some of the challenges employers have had. and also to develop a better world, a better communities, a better state and a better world, working on kingham dulles' poverty alleviation strategy, advising the minister of labor, and also working in china at helping women reinvent themselves. for me, these are not just talking points. this is my life's work. this is my passion. this is part of the purpose. and so in all these roles, one of the things that you cannot very clear is that when we are together, our collective success really depends on all of us, not just some of us, having real opportunities. and that is what my campaign is really about. it is about opportunity. that is it in a nutshell. it is about economic opportunities, which is tied to education, which is tied to crime, which is tied to terrorism. it is tied to so many things. and so i am excited to be here tonight, and i am excited for the conversation. and i thank you so much for hosting, and i look forward to the debate. thank you.