 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Today, fighting me tonight, it's a pleasure to be here, enjoy the TNL, enjoy being in the last couple of weeks. Talk from earlier, Mr. Kompel, Mr. Kompel, Mr. Kompel, right there. We serve in World War II, Korea and Vietnam. So, thanks to all our service and everyone here at the TNL this year. Carol, Carol, I love about that. Do we have any other service members? World War II, another gentleman. This is a glass of tea, this is the main source. Please do. I'm from the South of California, I'm from 35th County, four times right here, I've been tribute to the guys that I flew with. Our father's name was John Dust, and we got to head over to the town a couple of times, to be through back to childhood. And we had a crash in childhood. Our play started and we hit. We run off the runway about five degrees, running into another 29. We hit our nose and then our wing, and it cut the plane straight into back to South of California. And four of the guys at the crash track field. And our father's name was John Dust, and he got to stay with service across, which is one of the other congressional weather lines that we bring to us back. And then it worked on another group, and I flew within until I got five patients who were like, finished my missions. And the co-pilot of the name of the scalder, he made first pilot, and after that, the last five missions within, that I was on, and he, he flew the first group, 50 bomber, around the world, the refueling year. And I just wanted to thank you to the people that I flew in, and they were a good question. And they were like, what was the answer to that? The bad girl. I'm happy. APPLAUSE We've got a bless you all. We all, we all, we said you're enjoying, uh, you need to organize tonight without your service, because of thousands of people who did the same, and sacrificed, and let's make it to yours and you. I'm a hero here. I'm sure it's easy to be bad at it, but it's not new. It's a very good problem, and many of you might have tried it, so you could leave. Got a bless you all. Thank you. These are, this is why I love doing this. You get to meet a lot of people who have done a lot of incredible things, and, and truly, we were, uh, I don't know, which one of you had to have the weird thing you walked in? You have to have Bill, do you have to have? Let me see. He had had to, he said, it said, it says World War II Korean Vietnam. Right? And we all went to the hat and said, is it possible you've been researching three of those wars? And, uh, got blessed. It's just a great thing. And, uh, we appreciate that. You know, I love Logan County. I have been, I've probably been in this facility from the war link in the Internet, from the Indian Indian County, and then, in the state. It's great. The team, our children come up to Mark Valley and find some of the right in the map, and they go to the horse camp, and do a lot of things up here, and it's just a great place, it's a great people, and, uh, and I appreciate you inviting us back, Tina, Fran, and you're really grateful for your left here? It's just you. Um, it's just great, that you continue well from us and give us the honor to serve you. We really appreciate it. But last year was quite a journey. We had, we had, I promise, I don't know what 2019 has in store, which is great as a bar, but it won't, I can't imagine it's going to be with 20 in here. That was quite eager, because, as many of you know, I was running for governor, myself, I was running, and, you know, we had four people with the race, and, and, uh, came to the point that we were going to have to make this choice about, we were really off-former to run each other, and maybe, create a situation for everyone. We were, we were all lost, because the Democrats were united with Republicans for the right to do it. And, uh, like the wine that I had, nice talk, and we decided to team up, and we were running number one, number two of the polls, and just thought that, maybe, us working together would be better for everybody, and, so that's what we did. And that was hard. Tina and I went out, it was a hard family discussion, a hard conversation, calling out our supporters, or out of the state, and telling them what you were doing, and, um, and, um, and really, you know, the days we ended up to be announced, because once you've, once you decide to do this, you don't get a lot of time to talk, because it'll start to leak out, and, media will be asking questions, and you want to announce that, and then, in terms, and, so we, heard out, and we called people, and we told them, and we were, you know, there was a lot of tough calls, and we ended up with, you know, we ended up doing stuff like that, and, we ended up letting out. But, we did the tour, I could friends, and I, I did the media conferences, went around, and the black people were super happy, that we were, we were teaming up, and we were going to, give us a better shot, and win this, and get your publics, and the other members, and the interest, and, um, so as we were, we were doing this, you know, one day, news conferences, we finally did it through it all, and I get home. Tina knows her story, but I tell her, that's why she's laughing. She, and, uh, and I say, I told my daughters, Katie Kylie, who were, 18, 11 at the time, I think. I tell them that, uh, the daddy is not going to go out for governor, he's going to go out for lieutenant governor. Mm-hmm. And Kylie was a rememberser. She starts crying. I mean, you know, you're baby, you're baby, you know, you're baby, you're daughter, she starts crying when you're a dad, and I don't want to get out. You know, everything else went great, because like when your daughter's crying, she's unhappy with you, it's like, everything else went bad, because she's upset. Well, she's just not happy, and I get home, I get this, you know, and I try, she's in control, she's just, weep me, I'm in control, and she looks at me, and she goes, I don't even know what a lieutenant governor does. Like that's where I put me else does he? No. But I could, I could, I could, I could be a computer to stop him from crying. And finally, I, I, I get her, get her to slow down a little bit, and I said, I like, I like, I like, I like, I like, I like, I like, I like, I like, I like, I like, I like, I like, I like, I like, I mean, I'm in in Does corset, I mean, I canычon single way the living guy, can you believe me? And I said, You know, you run out of Pizza Pasha but don't go asleep, and I said, No! So I made it. I mean, you can't go Witcher, ok? Bye! I'm going home to save the next chapter of the book, but don't worry about me. I said we're home because I like, keep from crying. And I start We were all elected in Syria. They were all elected in Syria. We're all, but I'm telling you what you think is interesting. But we really appreciate the government, and I really appreciate your support. It was a tough race, a difficult race, and you know, we've run it up to the election. I mean, the last couple of months, we didn't take a day off. It was like every day, seven days a week. We used some of our hours to wear, and we knew it somewhere, and we knew it somewhere, and we were trying to, because as you noticed, in the last 30 days, they were showing that the polls, all the media polls, said we were going to lose. Said we were behind, we're no lose. And you know, we never know what to believe. The last 30 days, all those public polls, said we were behind, we were going to win. So, you know, we don't know. I remember I was talking to my staff, and I said, I said to some of them who were worried about it. I said, it doesn't, I said, it doesn't matter. I said, you can't control what happens. You can't control the voters. Do that. It's one of the wonderful things about democracy is up to them. All we can control is what we do. And this is good advice no matter what you do. Just give it your best shot. Give it everything you have. Do it the right way, and live with your consequences, and win with dignity, and lose with, and lose with grace. And you know, that's what you do. I said, we'll act the same way either way. But we have to do our best. We have to give people the effort they expect out. That's exactly what we did, and it is most times, at the time you do something like that, and life turns out exactly how you vote. And we would, and we would rest, and give a bit of a much night. It's a great fun night. Some of you were there for that. We really appreciate it. We would do it, and we do feel, what any time you're in a tough race, this is a good part of that. Is that you do feel a sense of responsibility to live up to the host and people, a half way. And that's what we hope to do every single day to live up the expectations that you have for us. But I'll tell you one of the interesting things about the poll numbers and the list of the numbers. You know, Ohio was very divided. And very divided in our elections, even though people will call us a hurdle state, we have very red places, we have very blue places. And Hamilton County, since then, we lost quite around 30,000 votes in one country. And you may say, wow, that's a lot of votes. But do you know where the Mercer County, I know you have to be from Mercer County here tonight, you know? We won Mercer County by 10,000 votes. And there are only 17,000 voters that will count. We have 80% of the votes there. 84% of the vote? Wow. And just in, I think it was, the Mercer dark in Miami County, just in three counties, we made up the entire difference in the county. That's which would power what rural counties are doing to overcome what's happening in our rural counties. So that guy standing in the back over there with his thumbs up, he's not going to wait for that until that's true. And none of us do. None of us do is Republicans in the state. We need your support. We try to honor that support, give you the best possible government that you, we can provide. And government wide and high, you know, we've been, we've been at, we've been honored, and I don't know, we're like 105 days in this, who's counting, right? And we have this, we have a kid agenda, for earlier, trying to look at what's best to help kids from pre-birth, as you know, to, to, to, all the way, to kindergarten, for school, when they get out, how will we not get a good start life? And, and the DeWine family is committed to that. You know, we, we have a demographic problem in Ohio, and in many ways, we're losing more working-age workforce than people are coming in, we're turning this into five-hastroons in 2018. We need to grow our population. I always joke with the Alliance, and I love to do it in the old, which I'm going to review since, 20, but Mike and Fran have eight children, and 24 grandchildren. But, we put families, we put kids first, trying to build an agenda that helps look people up, particularly those who are struggling with kids, maybe you don't have a good shot at my commitment, Mike and Fran are our great leaders in that respect, and I are our dream, new, our part. But, my role, mostly, is focus to three areas, is antenna cover. And I love these areas. These are things that work out my whole life, and things that I'm passionate about. You cannot improve development, workforce development, and innovation, technology, and how we're going to build future-fisting, how we're going to put Ohio in a great spot. And we did a video down to yesterday, on Interview High, which is really to make government more cost-emoreservice friendly, to make it, to use data analytics to help make government more accountable, and to do things like data security, so that all the information we have, and Ohio that everybody's identities are protected. You know, with technology, you've got to be very careful about that. My role for the data lab, it is really to start treating people like the cost-emores they deserve to be. Government sometimes has a treat people right. We don't use technology to make use of it. I don't want to talk to our administrators, they're going to use technology to improve everything we did. We made our office so efficient, and we were able to cut the wait times to start a business in Ohio for days to four hour. We made so efficient that we can cut fees by 21-hour to start a business, so we can lose our state, and then the rest are starving to 10-hour days. Over the course of eight years, we eliminated a prescription, a retirement of 40 percent of the folks. We eliminated 40 percent of the bureaucracy, and at the end, we were so efficient that we didn't need any tax dollars to run our office. The idea behind the video is making sure that we treat... We do that across all the state government. I don't think we're going to be running all state government's already tax dollars, and that will be promising things here, right? But we can't get a lot more efficient. We can do that. Think about this. How many of you have ever ordered anything online? Okay? You found your computer, or whatever that is, and you can use your mobile device. How many times have you gotten anything where you were trying to do it, and it was so cumbersome and difficult to just say, ah, not going to do it? Then how many times have you found something that was so simple, and you're like, wow, this is where I'm going to go and do my business. That's what most state government did to me. So, for making life easier for you, my hope is that we will make ourselves so efficient, and so technologically that you never have to go with another government office ever again. Yeah. That's it. Now, I understand you may enjoy your experience at the B of E, but if you want to keep it, you can keep it fully before you. I was going to have the paper option. But we really think of how it can be a later big deal, if it's the most innovative for you to state and then what else you want to try and be new. And we're also focused on workforce, how many people get the skills they need, tell you the other bit, there's no more important issue for businesses in the state of the workforce. You used to hear it all the time, and I remember, remember, right early days of politics in Ohio, this is to say, taxes are too high, regulations are too bad, might have a mortgage compensation issue, they don't like regulation taxes, that's what are our problems. Over the course of the last 15 years, we've gone through many tax over the whole of the state, we've got taxes, we've got regulations for now, and the top 15 states in the country for taxes and regulation businesses. Which is good, dude. But now, the more things are from businesses all the time, it's workforce. Can't find a town to think of any. Can't find a town to think of any, one of the other businesses can't find any people to think of any. What's workforce mean? It might be anything for somebody who can pass a drug test to show up five days a week. That's one for us. Might also mean somebody who's a PhD, a DGNSS to maybe help solve some amazing, kind of some amazing, curious for genetic diseases, things like that, which is also happening in my life. All of these things are workforce. And the governor and I wanted to do a great job, and help people throughout the continuum have access to the training and skills and these are really created by creating my own businesses to stay. And I'll tell you this work story. I was with a guy called from a county to a student, got some county commissioners to learn today, and got a call from one of the most important class, Boris Kelly. And they said to me, we're very worried that our largest private sector is emerging in Mexico. So that concerns me, so I get on the phone with a call, and they reassure me that no one on the way to Mexico, but we do have some issues to talk to you about. So I said, down with the CEO of this company, and he says, we want to expand. We want to have two, three hundred jobs. They start out anywhere around $18 an hour up to high 20s. They'll require anything with high school diploma and the passing of the test on great jobs. And then some other jobs in the Ohio School of Fame are more than that. So good jobs. But they said that, here's the deal, you have to group to us and you can supply the town. Because we don't think you can. And if you can't, you can move in either to another state or you're moving our expansion to Mexico. That should happen. And let those things happen. And that's where our workforce is, and we're making sure we're building the town with across all aspects of our economy. So we all can get great jobs so they can support their families. And I was doing this today. I'm a big fan of career centers. I've been here a little personally. I've been here for the first time. High school, I've been doing some good things. Creating industry credentials. I was in line with that. The Apollo for the first time. But the first time was a mile. Because they're not like what career centers were. Like these people made these efforts to shop class. No. It's much more than that. And education has changed. The nature of work has changed. You go to your person and they go find robots. You'll find the ciders that you're doing in coding. Yeah, you'll also find welding. And machine and other types of skill. But it's everything. And you can earn college credits when you're there. And I know these things called sign names. It's your career centers. Signs, what's the sign name? Those people, how many buck out football fans do you have? Couple of those. Okay, now we're talking. We got a buck out football fans. Sign name, I mean, people who are followed college football. Sign name is like a religion. Religious identity. Who's coming to our school? They're designing the scholarship? We're going to get this great person. We're going to encourage centers and do signing names. Those kids too. Because celebrate what you want to borrow. I understand celebrating a great high school football quarterback. It's important. But celebrating the kids in high school. We're getting industry certifications and earning college credits. And going to work right high school. Because they're trained and ready as we're celebrating too, isn't it? That's what I'm going on with celebrating. And that's what I'm going on with celebrating another one today. Because in many cases, I'll tell you the story. I meet these young people. There's a company today that we were with. They were hiring five young people right out of high school. And a career path for them. And a company will pay for their college. That's a college scholarship too. You go to work, you're earning something. And if you're a college, they got a career path for you. That's pretty special. We should celebrate it. You celebrate the things you get more of it. That's what we're trying to do in our administration. Because in the end, you'll find a thing about what we're about. What we're about, what we're like to learn about, what we're trying to learn and brand about. What about opportunity? What about hope? Giving people a chance to believe that no matter how you grew up in America, here in Ohio, you've got a chance to live in America. I started up life in a foster home when I got adopted. But the degrees of God I might have had a pretty tough, tough childhood. But instead I got great parents. When I'm a great child, not a good kid, gets that. Not a good kid has parents that love and care for them. You give them what they need. And that's what we're trying to do. Do more of them in this state. Francho, Fran, doing something with my daughter, Dallae, and Harbour Foundation, trying to help every child from birth to five years old have a book after a whole meal to them every month. Because in many cases, kids don't have. They're just supposed to learn to read a lesson. Some of these give you these things. You mail them there again. And the study results show that when we do that, we just put these little books like the little engine that could, which is the first thing they have. How much, you know, great book, great metaphor for life, right? There may be no story, but just keep trying them. Just keep trying until you make it. The theme is, I think, round and round. And that's what Fran's doing. She's out there raising money from foundations and things like that to help make sure that every child in this state has access to a book. And Tina is doing some great things. Tell you what, if you have something you want to get done with a book to Tina, a very private one that I came home from, clean one, and met these folks who run this program, called The Open Table. And what it is, is essentially a board of directors for a foster child, who's a ageing out. And that's who they're focused on. And this is what the group is focused on. And giving them some adults six to ten and they're now with them now in a deep life. And I told her about it. And her carrying big heart, she knows that should happen more recently. So the next thing you know, she's working on it. And she started it. And now she's got a bunch of tables started in Columbus. And bringing adults from all walks of life in how these kids that are ageing out of foster parents, you have adults just get a shot. I know what you need to think about this because she's told me some great stories about this. And I'll brag on her a little bit. It's not brag, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a calling when you really dig into this. And you hear from me that everybody makes what you do this because here you have young adults that have no idea really ever cared for them or loved them in their lives. It's really there for them when they need it. And they're struggling. They got a lot of baggage that comes with it. And they need some stability. They need some friends. They need some kind of a city. That's what, that's what these adults are doing. Helping us, young people, Tina, Tina started this and she's trying to spread it throughout Ohio. We've learned that those we got a lot of kids out there that need help. More, more young people that need help than love her, find the adults to provide them that table. But the great thing about it is the unexpected thing is what all of those adults go around the table back in return because they start to appreciate the blessings and their lives. They start to understand that the world isn't like the world that they live in. They need to be a little more compassionate, a little more caring, a little more understanding. When you get to know somebody who's from a different world than you are. Helping people understand each other better, helps them grow closer, helps them understand that we are all, we are all united and got to hold. And then we got to help them. And that's what I believe we are as people, as Americans and the minds of around our best. When we look out for people, we give them opportunity, we give them hope, and we give them a chance. Because at the end I think that's what everybody wants. I just want somebody to care about them. They want a fair shot of mine. I think they're a chance for them to be American. And I really believe that, you know, all that would be perfect at it. That's what Mike and I want to do in our work and stay government. That's what Fran and Tee want to be with the blessing that they have and their roles in the administration. And all of you are leaders in your own right. You're here today. And I'm going to talk to you. I know all of you in the audience. I know a lot of you. There's somebody who looks up to you with the world. There's something that you can change about the world every day. And when we do that, that's the way we make America a better place. That's the way we create the right of future. I believe as every generation wants to do the world a little bit of place in the way we found it. So God bless you. God bless us all in this journey. And thank you very much for the opportunity to share this story with me.