Home
News
Press Releases
October 24, 2025
As Government Shutdown Persists, Frost Calls On State Leaders To Prevent Disruption of Food Benefits for Nearly 3 Million Floridians
ORLANDO, FL
— Today,
Congressman Maxwell Alejandro Frost (FL-10)
sent a
letter
to Governor Ron DeSantis and the Florida legislature demanding the state convene a special session and pass legislation that will fund SNAP for Florida families amid a potential lapse in federal funding during the ongoing Republican government shutdown.
The Florida Department of Children and Families has sent a
notice
that come November 1st, three million Floridians could be without vital food assistance in the month of November. This number includes over a million children, over 700,000 seniors, and over a quarter-million Floridians with disabilities.
In the letter, Frost cites that Floridians are already dealing with worsening unemployment and soaring grocery prices. Food banks in Central Florida have already been reporting a record number of community members in need and strained resources.
Frost also cites President Trump’s so-called “One Big Beautiful Bill,” which is cutting off an estimated 180,000 Floridians from SNAP because of new work requirements that now include people over 60, young people leaving foster care, and veterans.
“President Trump and Congressional Republicans’ refusal to make a bipartisan agreement that reopens the government, lowers health care costs, and saves America’s health care should not cause Floridians to go without food. I am calling on the Trump Administration to continue to provide Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits during the government shutdown. But our residents deserve a plan in the case that President Trump lacks the willingness to deliver,”
wrote Rep. Frost
. “Please respond to this letter, not in writing, but in action, by holding a special session and funding SNAP for Florida.”
For the full text of the letter, please click
here
.
###
Print
Email
Share
Tweet
Previous Article
Next Article