Home
News
Press Releases
September 04, 2025
Congressman Maxwell Frost Reintroduces Expanded EPIPEN Act to Cap Cost of Life-Saving Allergy Medication
Revised 2025 Version Would Cap Out-of-Pocket Cost of Any 2-Pack of Epinephrine to $60, Including Delivery Systems Other than Auto-injectors
WASHINGTON, D.C.
— Today,
Congressman Maxwell Alejandro Frost
(D-FL) and
Congresswoman Doris Matsui
(D-CA) reintroduced the EPIPEN Act, legislation aimed at broadening access to lifesaving allergy medication by capping out-of-pocket costs for epinephrine at $60 for a two-pack for those with employer-based or individually purchased health insurance.
Originally introduced during the 118th Congress, the updated 2025 version expands the bill’s scope beyond syringe-based auto-injectors like EpiPens to now cover all epinephrine delivery systems such as nasal sprays and sublingual films, ensuring families can access the format that best suits their medical needs.
The legislation responds to persistent reports of families being forced to ration expired devices or forgo their purchase entirely due to high costs. In the U.S., the price of branded epinephrine auto-injectors like EpiPens has soared from under $100 to over $600 in recent years while countries like the United Kingdom offer the same medication for under $70 on average. Even with insurance, and particularly those with pricey, high-deductible insurance plans, many families pay more than $650 annually.
Congressman Frost's EPIPEN Act would provide nationwide price relief, saving families hundreds of dollars each year and, in some cases, up to $13,000 over a child’s life, from the time they begin carrying epinephrine to when they transition off their parents’ insurance at age 26.
Critically, the legislation also aims to help families prepare for the unknown. A first severe allergic reaction can occur without warning, especially in children who have never previously been diagnosed. By capping costs and expanding coverage, the EPIPEN Act would allow families to keep lifesaving medication on hand, just in case.
“Going about life with a severe allergy can be severely anxiety-inducing,”
said Congressman Frost
, who suffers from a severe allergy himself. “But the simple act of carrying an EpiPen or any other type of epinephrine medication can take away a lot of that stress. I’m hopeful that the EPIPEN Act will allow more and more people and families to have the life-saving medication on hand anywhere, because you never know when you might need it most.”
“Families shouldn’t have to choose between putting food on the table and keeping their kids safe. Yet across the country, the cost of auto-injectors like EpiPens has skyrocketed, putting life-saving care out of reach for too many,”
said Congresswoman Matsui
. “That’s why Congressman Frost and I are reintroducing our bill to cap the cost of this essential medication. Families already face enough stress managing life-threatening allergies—this legislation will lift some of that burden by making epinephrine affordable and accessible for those who need it.”
The bill is endorsed by leading allergy and health equity organizations, and is part of Congressman Frost’s broader push to lower healthcare costs and expand access to lifesaving care.
The
EPIPEN Act
is endorsed by Allergy and Asthma Network, Allergy Strong, American College of Allergy Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America, Asthma and Immunology, American Federation of Teachers, Association of Flight Attendants – CWA, Doctors for America, Food Allergy Research and Education, Red Sneakers for Oakley, No Nut Traveler, American Academy of Family Physicians, and MomsRising.
”ACAAI proudly endorses the EPIPEN Act, which requires health plans to cover self-administered epinephrine delivery systems and caps what patients pay for this important medication,”
said
James M. Tracy, DO, FACAAI, President, American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology
. “Quick access to epinephrine can be the difference between life and death during an anaphylactic reaction. We thank Rep. Frost for his leadership on this bill which will help make this life-saving medication more accessible to allergy patients.”
“The Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America (AAFA) is pleased to support the EPIPEN Act and we appreciate Rep. Frost’s work on this legislation,”
said Kenneth Mendez, President and CEO of AAFA
. “Epinephrine delivery systems carry potentially life-saving medicine. Unfortunately, the cost of these treatments continues to rise because of our complicated drug pricing ecosystem. I hope this bill will establish an approach for stakeholders to develop affordable pricing for our community. People and families managing severe allergies should have access to the medicines they need. This bill addresses a cost barrier and will improve access to epinephrine. We look forward to working with Rep. Frost and other Members of Congress to move this legislation forward.”
###
Print
Email
Share
Tweet
Previous Article
Next Article