Home
News
Press Releases
November 06, 2025
Congressman Maxwell Frost Statement on FAA Flight Reductions Amid GOP Government Shutdown
Orlando International Airport Among 40 Airports Facing Daily Flight Reductions
ORLANDO, FL
— Today, Congressman Maxwell Alejandro Frost (FL-10) released a statement following
news
that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) will reduce an estimated 4,000 to 5,000 flights daily at 40 airports nationwide, including Orlando International Airport (MCO), due to the Republican government shutdown.
In a statement, Rep. Frost says:
“Amid the longest government shutdown in our nation’s history, the FAA will now begin reducing daily flights at airports nationwide, including right here in Central Florida at Orlando International. Instead of returning to Washington to reopen the government, Republican politicians are inflicting chaos and pain on Americans, stranding flight crews, interrupting family and business travel, and crushing our local tourist economy. This is the direct consequence of a Republican government shutdown that is hurting working families, federal workers, and now making air travel dangerously unsafe across the United States.
“This shutdown is no accident. It’s part of this Administration's never-ending crusade to inflict the greatest amount of pain on our public servants and to privatize our federal agencies. This Administration’s cruelty and chaos aren’t just a strategy. They are precisely the point.
“While we work to help MCO and our city navigate Trump’s latest mess, we’re now entering week seven of this shutdown, and Republicans still haven’t shown up to work. Meanwhile, Democrats in Congress stand ready to do our jobs—to reopen the government so travelers can get where they need to go safely and efficiently, federal workers can put food on the table, and to lower healthcare costs so people can get the care they need. It is time the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans stop the chaos and do their jobs.”
###
Print
Email
Share
Tweet
Previous Article
Next Article