Home
News
Press Releases
September 10, 2025
BREAKING: Frost Bipartisan Bill to Fix Gaps in Hurricane Preparedness Passes Committee, Heads to House Floor
Frost’s Bipartisan Legislation Aimed at Saving Lives of Seniors, People with Disabilities, and Non-English Speakers During Hurricanes Included in Larger Legislative Package
WASHINGTON, D.C.
— Today, Congressman Maxwell Alejandro Frost (FL-10) announced his bipartisan bill, the
Fixing Gaps in Hurricane Preparedness Act
to save lives in the event of a hurricane or tropical storm has passed the House as part of a larger legislative package, the
Weather Act Reauthorization Act of 2025 (H.R.5089)
.
Frost’s bill would ensure that hurricane preparedness tools, alerts, and planning systems would address the needs of seniors, people with disabilities, non-English speakers, and rural and urban populations.
“Whether you’re a senior, someone living with a disability, a non-English speaker, or a Floridian living in a rural community – our emergency communications systems need to be able to reach people where they’re at – efficiently and effectively,”
said Rep. Maxwell Frost
. “I’m proud to say that my bipartisan Fixing Gaps in Hurricane Preparedness Act will do just that by focusing on how every single person in our communities is able to prepare themselves for the worst mother nature sends our way. My legislation and the Weather Act will help save lives.”
Specifically, the Fixing Gaps in Hurricane Preparedness Act would require the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to review how these populations receive and react to emergency notifications and evaluate how these people are able to prepare themselves in the event of a hurricane. Closing these gaps have proven to be critical as two-thirds or more of the fatalities from Hurricane Katrina in 2005, Hurricane Florence in 2018, and Hurricane Ian in 2022 were people over 60 years old. And all of Hurricane Dorian’s Central Florida fatalities were people aged 56 to 86.
The
Weather Act Reauthorization Act of 2025 (H.R.5089)
is a bipartisan legislative package that includes the Fixing Gaps in Hurricane Preparedness Act. This comprehensive reauthorization extends and enhances critical components of America's weather forecasting, research, and emergency preparedness systems and improves public communication and response to weather alerts, increasing the safety and preparedness of communities across the nation.
###
Print
Email
Share
Tweet
Previous Article
Next Article