so i have been saying a lot of things talking of the people making commentary. interestingly enough, the ones i have noticed that have been making the commentary are wealthy black people, making the commentary about we should not be brightening, we should not be looking, we should not be tearing up our own communities. and then there is been an argument of the other side of we should be hitting them in the pocket. we should be focusing on the blackout days when we do not spend money. but i feel like we should do both. and i feel like i support both. and i will tell you why i support both. i support both because when you have a civil unrest like this, there are three type of people in the streets. there are the protesters, there are the rioters, and there are the looters. the protesters are there because they actually care about what is happening in the community, they want to raise their voices, and they are there strictly to protest. you have the rioters who are angry, who are anarchists, who really just want to shit up, and that is what they are going to do regardless. and then you have the looters. and the looters almost exclusively are just there to do that to loot. now people are like, well what did you gain? well what did you get from looting? i think that as long as we are focusing on the what? we are not focusing on the why. and that is my issue with that. as long as we are focusing on what they are doing, we are not focusing on why they are doing. and some people are like, well those are people who are legitimately angry about what is happening. those are people who just want to get stuck. okay, well then let us go with that. let us say that is what it is. let us ask ourselves why in this country in 2020, the financial gap between poor blacks and the rest of the world is at such a distance that people feel like they are only hoping, the opportunity to get some of the things that we flaunt a flash in front of them all the time is to walk through a broken glass window and get it. that they are so hopeless that getting that necklace, getting that tv, getting that change, getting that bed, getting that phone, whatever it is that they are going to get is that in that moment when the riots happen and if they present an opportunity of looting, that is their only opportunity to get it. we need to be questioning that why? why are people that poor? that are people that broke, why are people that food insecure, that clothing insecure, that they feel like they are only shot, that they are shooting their shot by walking through a broken glass window to get what they need. and then people want to talk about what is plenty of people who pull themselves up out of bootstraps and got it on their own. why cannot they do that? let me explain to you something about economics in america and i am so glad that as a child i got an opportunity to spend time at push where they taught me this is that we must never forget that economics was the reason that black people were brought to this country. we came to do the agricultural work in the south and the textile work in the north. do you understand that? that is what we came to do. we came to do the agricultural work in the south and the textile work in the north. now if i right now, if i right now decided that i wanted to play monopoly with you and for 400 rounds of playing monopoly i did not allow you to have any money, i did not allow you to have anything on the board, i did not allow for you to have anything. and then we played another 50 rounds of monopoly and everything that you gained and you earned while you were playing that round of monopoly was taking from you. that was tulsa, that was rosewood. there are places where we built black economic wealth, where we were self-sufficient, where we owned our stores, where we owned our property and they burned them to the ground. so that is 450 years. so for 400 rounds of monopoly you do not get to play at all. not only do you not get to play, you have to play on the behalf of the person that you are playing against. you have to play and make money and earn wealth for them and then you have to turn it over to them. so then for 50 years you finally get a little bit and you are allowed to play and every time that they do not like the way that you are playing or that you are catching up or that you are doing something to be self-sufficient they burn your game, they burn your cards, they burn your monopoly money. and then finally at the release and the onset of that they allow you to play and they say, okay now you catch up. now at this point the only way you are going to catch up in the game is that the person shares the wealth, correct? but what if every time you share the wealth then there is psychological warfare against you to say, oh you are an equal opportunity higher? so if i played 400 rounds of monopoly with you and i had to play and give you every dime that i made and then for 50 years every time that i played, if you did not like what i did you got to burn it like they did in tulsa and like they did in rosewood, how can you win? how can you win? you cannot win. the game is fixed. so when they say why do you burn down the community? why do you burn down your own neighborhood? it is not ours. we do not own anything. we do not own anything. there is trevor noah said it is so beautifully last night. there is a social contract that we all have that if you steal or if i steal then the person who is the authority comes in and they fix the situation. but the person who fixes the situation is killing us. so the social contract is broken. and if the social contract is broken, why the fuck do i give a shit about burning the football hall of fame, about burning a fucking target? you broke the contract. when you killed us in the streets and then give up. you broke the contract from 400 years. we played your game and built your wealth. you built the contract when we built our wealth again on our own by our bootstraps, same tossa, and you dropped bombs on us. when we built it in rosewood and you came in and you swatted us. you broke the contract. so your target, your hall of fame. far as i am concerned i could burn this bitch to the ground. and it still would not be enough. and they are lucky that what black people are looking for is equality and not revenge.