congresswoman kim, you were in the room as the ukrainian president zelensky asked for more u.s. assistance. that was followed by president biden's announcement that, indeed, an additional $800 million in military aid was headed to ukraine and the form of various weapons and weapon systems. can you take us inside that room? tell us about the effective president zelensky's address to congress and whether you think the u.s. is doing enough to help. sure. first of all, frank, thank you very much for having me. yes, i was in the room and it was very emotional. and it was a real moment when democrats and republicans came together to show our strong united states support for ukraine and also show our admiration for president zelensky's leadership and bravery, which was on full display. i truly believe he is a bright leader for ukraine at such time as this. in my view, he is a hero and he knows how to rally not only his people in ukraine but the people around the world. and his message to us is very clear that he is not going to give up. they are going to continue to fight and neither can we. so the message he is given to us is that we need to do more for ukraine because they need help now. so to that end, i think that we have done so far whatever we can, congress passing the ukraine aid last week and president biden following up with the $800 million in additional support. we continue to do more because we need to do – i am urging president biden to organize an international humanitarian airlift to provide non-military supplies into ukraine. you know, we have seen many aid convoys sticking to entering ukraine to its cities, but the effort has been stopped because russian forces are blocking or destroying the transportation method. so we need to provide the airlift to bring in these non-military supplies as soon as possible. and i think there is definitely a room for doing more. congressman kim, on friday, you introduced the dictator act. it is a bipartisan effort to investigate whether the chinese government is helping russia to circumvent the sanctions levied by the u.s. and other countries. is there any evidence at this point to suggest that that is actually happening? we truly believe because of the intelligence community that – remember just recently, the chinese foreign minister, wang li, he continues to say that russia is china's most important strategic partner. and we know that as russia continues to invade ukraine, we know china is in taiwan. so we want to be there to protect our ally, taiwan, and we have to show dictators that they cannot invade a free country, who is a true economic trade partner with the united states for these unprovoked – without – you know, unprovoked – invasion without secure consequences. that is why i introduced the dictator act. and this is truly a bipartisan effort. and this bill is directing the state department to investigate and report to congress if and how chinese government and its affiliated entities are helping russia to invade the u.s. sanctions that we put in place after putin's ukraine invasion. and i truly believe that this will set us up for the picture that we come up with a strategy to block economic support from china to russia. you are also leading an effort to urge the meta-ceo, mark zuckerberg, to block chinese government-backed groups who are pushing russian propaganda on facebook and other meta-platforms. what is the impact you are seeing of these ads? and have you had any response yet for mr. zuckerberg or from meta? well, first of all, we just send a letter and we are waiting – we give – we give him time by the end of this month or sooner to give us a feedback. the broader issue is china is helping russia. and i wrote a letter to zuckerberg with several requests, including what steps are you taking to monitor non-russian outlets, spreading this information during this ukraine invasion? and what resources and staffing they have dedicated to fight this information campaigns? you see, meta had a policy from 2020 to block state-controlled outlets from buying advertising in the united states. so we are asking if they are expanding that policy to global advertisements. and we have also seen how russian intelligence is saying china is planning to invade taiwan this fall. so we want to make sure that we are there. we are ready to support and protect our ally taiwan when that happens.