good evening and welcome to the cree society's third episode in our women's leadership and the us korea relationship series. i am tom burn, president and ceo of the cree society here in new york city. our women's leadership series highlights the achievements and the important role korean and korean american women leaders play in their own countries as well as on the global stage. and also we look at the contributions that are like they hear about the contributions they have made strengthening the bonds between the people of korea and america. the cree society is honored tonight to feature congresswoman young kim, one of the korean american women trailblazers serving in the us house of representatives. we will hear from congresswoman kim on how as an immigrant she pursued the american dream to become a successful korean american leader and politician. congresswoman kim represents california's 39th district which includes parts of los angeles, orange and san bernardino counties. congresswoman kim started her public service as director of community relations and asian affairs for former congressman ed royce. prior to serving in congress, congresswoman kim was the first ever korean american republican woman to serve in the california state assembly. california state assembly. she is also a small business owner, a long time community leader and has been actively involved in numerous organizations throughout the 39th district. also she was recently appointed as a co-chair of the congressional study group on korea, operating within a partnership formed by the society and the association of former members of congress. there are only two other bilateral study groups composed of sitting members of congress, japan and germany, but the korea group is the newest established rather recently in 2018. i am very excited to see that congresswoman kim will play a key role in strengthening the relationship between these two great democracies, korea and america. tonight ambassador kathleen stevens, whom we featured in the inaugural women's leadership program, will moderate the conversation. ambassador stevens is the board chair of the korea society, a former u.s. ambassador to korea, and is also serving as president and ceo of the korea economic institute in washington dc. please join me in welcoming congresswoman kim and ambassador stevens. i hope you all enjoy the conversation between two highly accomplished leaders. thank you kathy, the screen is yours. thank you very much and hello to everyone joining us. today i am so thrilled to have our third episode, as tom mentioned of the korea society's women's leadership series, and we are so honored to have congresswoman kim join us for this evening. congresswoman, welcome. your life, your career, which i follow as i know many people who are turning in have for some time, they really personify the themes that we are trying to explore in this series. and you set an example of public service and leadership that is not only inspiring, but something i think we can really learn from. so we have a lot to cover tonight. thank you so much for making time. i know you are coming from votes and it is always busy on the hill, but it seems especially that way today. so thank you very much. thank you very much for having me and it is an honor to be joined by you and have this conversation. i look forward to it. thank you. well, i want to say a belated congratulations in person. this passes for in person on your election to be us congress representing california's 39th district. and i know the audience is very eager to hear your thought about the many, many challenges our country faces that we all face as americans, asian, korean americans as women as citizens committed to a strong relationship between the united states and korea and many other things. but if you would indulge us, before we get to all that, i know our audience and i also would really like to explore a little bit your own journey and learn a little bit more about you. i know that you were born in seoul and as tom mentioned, i think we have seen you say that your family came to america to pursue the american dream. can you tell us a little more about that? what drew your parents here and what it was like for you and your family to settle in the us? sure. first of all, i do not think i can talk like this with the president. i know many of our audience are korean speakers too. i am sure they understood what i just said. but thank you. thank you for inviting me to participate in this women's leadership series. and i am really honored to have this conversation with you and to all of our audience listening in. i want to extend my warm greetings. you mentioned the american dream that i am living and it is been a privilege and honor for me to talk about it along the journey that got me to where i am. and just like most immigrant families, my family came to the us for the hope and opportunity that this country provided that is to seek a better life, especially coming from korea after the korean war. i was born like just a decade after the korean war. so you can see what my younger days in korea would have been like. and so it was not easy for my parents who sacrificed a lot when they decided to emigrate my family to the us. and that was like four and a half decades ago. and i saw my parents over 50 years of old and older in my death case. but they came here and struggled to settle into this new country and provide for their family. and the youngest of what used to be seven, but there are five of us left now because two of my older brothers passed away. and we struggled with initially with language barriers navigating through a new society. but i can tell you now it was totally, totally worth it. and growing up on the island of guam, i remember regularly going down to the beach and my mom and i would pick up cans and bottles. at the time, i thought it was a cleanup project, but any money that we made from that recycling project, we gave it back to church. and that was a very modest way of my mom teaching me the humility. and she would always tell me, you know, young, whenever you can, whenever we can, we have to get back to the community in this country that has given us so much opportunities. and her words left a very, very lasting impression on me. so you were the youngest in your family of siblings when you came over. so in some ways, perhaps that helped because you were a little younger when you started to learn english. how old were you? but you probably also had some special responsibilities too. yes. you know, i was, i finished elementary school when my parents came over here. so i too had the difficulty, you know, because i did not speak a word of english when i came here. so it was all learning experience. and at 12, 13 years old, i remember helping my parents to go to the dmb together to get their license, translating. when i did not know that i was not even fluent in english myself. so those are the memories that i have. but like i said, the journey of living the american dream today, it was totally worth any difficulties and challenges we had to overcome. we are life speaks to that, but you really had to take a lot of responsibility early too. in many ways, i have to ask you, especially since you are from southern california. and have you seen the movie meenati? and i mean, that talks about an immigrant experience said in the 1980s, i think. so maybe slightly later than you, not too much. and in a very different part of the country, but have you seen it? yes. your reaction to it. you know, actually, i did watch that minari with my husband and my daughters. and i know it was a story that resonated with me and so many korean american immigrants. since, you know, when we first came to america, we actually settled in guam first. and then i went to hawaii to finish my high school. and then i came to california. i remember telling my parents, as much as i love living on the island, you know, that is too small for me. this little girl, you know, born and raised in my earlier days in inchan, which is famous for macarthur landing. i mean, so i was born by the water and growing up on the island of guam in hawaii, i said, you know, i need to get out into the bigger world. and so this, that journey took over the pacific ocean, getting me to california, going to usc. and i remember just going through the difficult times because i had to pay and put myself to the college. but it taught me my resilience and perseverance. and i hope minari resonates with many people as it did to me and my family. and i hope that it gives everyone an understanding of the experience of immigrants and an appreciation of the american dream. yeah, i saw it too. and i had to say, i thought it was a quintessentially american story, you know, and with a very korean flavor and with people understanding about minari and perseverance. but i actually had grandparents who had a farm in arkansas earlier in the 20th century. and you know, just seeing it made me think so much about that extraordinary experience of these cultures coming together and that experience. yeah, i thought it was very, very moving. i want to pick up your journey in california and on from there. but i also want to ask you while we are still kind of talking about looking back towards days in korea, how much do you still maintain many contacts in korea? i know obviously we will talk about it. you are very active in korean american relations from the point of view of your current responsibilities and previous things you have done. and do you visit korea often and do you like all of this kind of go back and think, oh, my goodness, it is changed so much since i was there six months ago or now maybe it is a year. yeah, you know, yes, on that note, i do have family members, actually my aunt and her siblings, which are my extended family members and cousins, they still live in korea. and during my time, as you know, i was a long time congressional staff working with former chairman at royce, i had numerous opportunities to travel to korea in that capacity. and along the way, i made a lot of friends and we still maintain good relationship with many people, both on the professional and personal level. and the development of technology like kakaotalk, we call it kakaotalk, has made it so much easier to communicate with my family and friends overseas. so i have been fortunate to keep in touch with them regularly. but every time i visit korea, i am amazed by how much korea has changed since i left as a young girl. and it has literally reasoned from the ashes of the aftermath of the korean war to become the center of technology and economic superpower. you remember when you served as the master in south korea and i know you have seen all that what i am describing, you know, there is a term that the miracle of han river. and so i think you and i share the amazing development and we have seen the incredible testament to the resilience of the korean people. no, absolutely. and it really is, i mean, one of the most extraordinary, i mean, blessings of my life to have seen over, i confess now, it is almost 50 years. that is one thing about getting older and to think, you know, and reflect, of course, everywhere has changed. but the journey of korea really is quite remarkable. one thing that i think we are finding and i want to get your thoughts on this as we move along a little later on is people are, of course, interested in many things about korea because of its culture, its history, its journey. but i think there is also a sense, there is a lot to learn from korea now too, whether it is in public health or sustainable economic growth or a lot of other issues that i know there are very much on your agenda and many of your colleagues. but i want to get back to your own journey for a minute because we are trying to focus on, you know, leadership development as well as a us career relations. and i know you move to california and obtained a degree, i think, in business administration. and then unlike a lot of people who study mid-minute, you actually started your own business. but i also understand that you had a radio show and a television show called la soul with young kim and radio soul. so what i was interested in about that is you clearly drew from your business administration studies and the entrepreneurial skills you were developing and your own korean-american identity. so i think we would be interested in kind of how you kind of figured that out because that was fairly early on, i think, to do some of those things, particularly as a young woman. you know, actually, i graduated from college and i remember, first of all, you know, as an immigrant and my parents who had the equivalence of a elementary school in korea, for them, seeing their youngest child walking across the stage to receive my college diploma and finding a good-paying job. they were hoping that i would find somebody good and find a good husband, start a family. and then when they saw that i started as a financial analyst in the first day state holding company, i mean, it is now wells fargo, right? but then eventually i started running my own business. to them, it seemed like the ultimate american dream. and you know, it would have been something that my parents' generation would say, wow, we achieved the american dream. but for me, that was only the beginning. my parents lived a simple life and taught us humility. but i was fortunate to be surrounded by people who encouraged me to pursue higher goals and venture into uncharted territory, like hosting a television talk show. and i did that for about 10 years. first as a ksci-generating, now it is called la seoul in southern california. and then eventually at adidas tv, also doing a second season of a real talk. so i got all these opportunities, but i was not comfortable doing that in the beginning. but i give a lot of credit to my husband, we have been married for 35 years. he graduated high school before he emigrated to united states. so his korean was fluent. he encouraged me to actually take on that challenge. and he helped me to fine tune my korean skills. so i looked and sounded good on tv instead of speaking congolese, right? so when you have the opportunity, just go for it. and that is what i did. and i had good support system to help me get through. yeah, so you actually, i mean, having come to the us to guam as a middle school student essentially, and then living in the us and being educated in english all this time, then you took on to actually be a television radio person in korea. and that is very brave. yes. so my korean was not, i mean, korean, i mean, english was not so perfect at the time because i was still trying to assimilate. but at the same time, my korean was like elementary school level. but over the time, you know, just like anything, language, linguistic skill is something the more you speak, the more you feel comfortable. and i was able to just hone my skills along the way. yeah, well, i know that. i mean, i feel like i have made it more than most, but maybe miner, i do not know how much work that takes, but also it takes some courage too. because certainly i have observed that, you know, if you look like i do, and you speak some korean, i mean, korean kind of give you a pass. it is, oh, that is good, that is good. but if you look korean, you know, it is like they are very exacting. you know, they are so, they can be very demanding. so i thought to you. yeah. i have come a long way. no. so, but you did then. you said that was not enough. you then moved from the private sector into public service. and you have done, you know, the work as a staff member is a california state assembly member and run for office. and i think you, you ran twice before you were elected. so that takes a lot of perseverance too. can you tell us a little bit about, there are a lot of people never make that transition, never mind from business to public service. but then from a staff position to actually putting yourself out there and running for office. what was that like for you and where there is some, i imagine there would be some challenges and maybe some advantages to being a woman, to being korean-american, to, you know, your own identity, a little bit about that journey. sure. you know, as a matter of fact, i talked about my husband's son earlier, but i give a lot of credit to him. i mean, he is a winner. i mean, to put up with me and really encourage me, you know, when your husband and your male spouse, your partner really encourage you, that is more credit to them than myself. so i really thank him for the support that he is given me and the support that i get from my grown-up children now. between the two of us, we have four. they have always been there to support me along this journey. but it was my husband charles, who encouraged me and taught me the value of serving our community as a volunteer. charles kim is a founder and past president of the korean-american coalition. you probably heard that. it is a non-profit group that was established in 1983 to advocate and empower our korean-american community and focus on leadership development. and it was through him. when i first met dan, state senator at roy's at an event, it was like an early 90s. and our initial meeting led to mr. roy is asking him if i would continue to work with him. so that led to working initially in your state senate office and then eventually moved on to continue to serve with him more than two decades as his director of community relations and asian affairs in his congressional office. and from there, it was both my husband charles and my former boss at roy's who encouraged me to run for office. the way i started was it was not something that i planned on, but in 2012, after we lost a state assembly seat in north orange county to a democrat, think about that. orange county once read county, we had lost a seat to a democrat. so at that time, mr. roy sent me down and i thought it was just having a regular conversation. but at that time, he said, young, we need to find a candidate to run against this democrat state assembly member. granted, she had just literally won a few weeks before and she has not even been sworn into office, but he said, we need to find somebody and somebody fast so we can start working on this. and i said, oh, sure, boss, i will look for somebody. and he said, no, i think we have a perfect candidate. look no farther. you will be great. like, huh? you know, that is how he started. but i went on to win that seat in 2014. that is how i became the first korean american republican woman to serving california state assembly. and now, when he said he is going to retire at the end of 2018, i ran. but as you know, i narrowly lost that election. it was heartbreaking. but after analyzing what happened and seeing where this country was headed because of so much partisanship that we see and the lack of representation that i saw representing me in my 39th district, i decided to run again. i am glad i did because i am here. the world goes winners do not quit, right? so i did not quit. right. congratulations. and you came out of this background with very deep roots in your district and in your community, which i think does. sometimes it is more reflected. i think in some of the women members of congress, right, who often come with those, those, they say starting even with volunteer work and other things and really developing those ties. so i would love to hear a little bit more about your district. i mean, i do know something about it. and, but what are you, what are you hearing from constituents? i mean, you just came through the election. but now you are here. it is been quite an initial several months. it this is definitely not the way i wanted to start my first term or let alone the first month in congress, but we are making the most of it. i know why i am here to represent not only the 39th district, but all americans and using my story. i am hoping that i can inspire others to do the same and know that they too can realize the american dream. but the 39th district spans across parts of los angeles, orange and san bernardino counties and it is one of the most diverse districts in the country. and i think like many communities, the 39th district has been bearing the brunt of the covid-19 pandemic and our small businesses, which is probably, i mean, this is a suburban district. so there are a lot of small and mid-sized businesses and they have been hurting and individuals have been hit hard by unemployment as well as california's, you know, california lockdown. you know, so people want to safely reopen and get back to normal. so that is a number one priority for me to make sure that happens. but in my district in southern california, infrastructure has also been a big issue with the 57, 60-fold confluence highway that is known as the worst truck bottleneck in the state and other issues with rows and highways. and we have, even though it is not directly in my district, it is very close to the ports of los angeles and san pedro and all of the goods that are coming out of the ports runs through my district along the 57, 60-free way. so infrastructure, freeways, these are very, very important for me. but, you know, additionally, many foreign policy issues directly impact many of my constituents from trade to our key relationship with allies in asia and central america. and this is also home to cal state fullerton. and this is a hispanic-serving institution as well as where three of my four kids, they went to cal state fullerton. so i am a tight, you know, tightens at heart, even though i am a trojan. not that said. and what about immigration? is that, does that play as a big issue in your district? would you say? yes, we are this. it certainly does, because as i mentioned, it is a very diverse district and where one-third of our constituency are asian-americans and it is one-third hispanic and one-third caucasian. so we have a lot of immigrants, legal immigrants that are making their livelihood and making this home. and we all want to encourage others to come but do it the right way and legal way. so it is a very important issue and i hope that i can add my unique perspective as an immigrant who has come here and now that the discussion is ongoing in congress. i hope that we can find some common sense immigration reform because it is been broken for so long. and i definitely want to work on that issue. so it is a very, very important key policy areas that i want to focus on. well, certainly to those of us, at least outside of politics, it would seem like immigration and infrastructure, two issues on which there can and should be real bipartisan efforts. so it is good to hear you emphasizing that, yeah. you have mentioned a couple of times and i know you on your website as well how powerful your own experience and your family's experience of the american dream is. and i think for my generation too, we feel it very powerfully. but i am worried a bit that in the us and actually in korea as well, that younger people increasingly feel that that dream is really out of reach for them, whether it is because of growing inequalities of opportunity or wealth or the crisis that we are in now that is really out of reach. in fact, i have seen this even more in south korea, and then lou, but later on that feeling coming into the us. i mean, do you see that too? and how do you respond to that? you know, certainly our job as policymakers is to make sure that all americans, especially the younger generation that you talk about, can access the opportunities to succeed. so the policies that come out of washington and sacramento that i have seen have been making it more difficult to achieve the american dream. they make our lives hotter, more expensive, and they are making it impossible for middle-class families to get by. so i realized that we need to work to lower taxes and healthcare costs and strengthen our schools, which is part of the reason why many immigrants come to this country because we know america provides quality education, but we need to make sure that there is quality education and opportunities that are available, but also we need to work to revitalize our economy. but obviously, the covid-19 pandemic in particular has left many feeling out of luck. but i think we are reaching a light at the end of the tunnel as more people receive vaccines so we can safely reopen. and i also said that for big things to get done in congress, we must come together and find common ground and working a bipartisan way. there are more things that unite us if we can keep an open mind. and along the way, as i was campaigning, i have heard over and over from the voters and the constituents. people are sick of partisan gridlock and they want to see their elected officials getting things done. so when i came to congress, i joined the bipartisan problem solvers, and i am working with my colleagues across the aisle to introduce bipartisan bills. and that is why i am so excited that so far in less than 100 days i have been in office, three of my bills have already passed the house and one has already become law. and all three of these bipartisan bills are an effort to help small businesses. because i say there is hope. and i hope i can keep doing my part and make a positive impact in washington. well, congratulations on that. that is, i think you are absolutely right that there is a very deep desire in this country for bipartisan solutions. and i know you have been a very strong voice in that. and particularly, i know you are also now the republican vice chair of the bipartisan congressional study group on korea, which is a study group that was established relatively recently in 2018. i know that there have been a long tradition of study groups, congressional study groups looking at japan, looking at germany that have been around for decades. so again, i think it is a sign, well, you can tell me, but a sign of korea's growing salience and importance that we now have a congressional study group devoted to korea. but that is just a background of saying, do you think that the congress is paying enough attention to korea? would you like to see some more and are there particular issues that you think deserve some more attention? it is a very full agenda, whether you are in the congress or in the administration. but also given meortize and your husband's ties as well to the deep ties of the korean american community. i wonder if you see both in your district and more broadly, if you see the korean american community, which is tough, is very diverse. but are they focused on particular areas? or do you think that their concerns are larger, if i could buy the larger other constituencies as well? sorry, i have a lot of questions, but i should turn that question of us korean relations because now you are in, you know, you are such an important voice and as you have been for years, but particularly now. you know, as you mentioned, given the importance and relevance of the issues stemming from the korean peninsula, korea should absolutely draw greater attention from the hill. and now that i am here, now that there are four korean american serving in congress to democrats, to republicans, truly bipartisan, i say. you know, so i think there will be more focus on korea. and i am really glad and honored to be serving in the capacity as a vice chair on the congressional study group on korea. even though the congressional study group on korea was only established recently, you know, i am so glad that my counterpart, congressman amibera and i get to serve together. so we are looking to take a number of issues surrounding the us-korea alliance and challenges from north korea, actually. so in particular, i hope that congress and the administration will pay special attention to the humanitarian situation in north korea. and hope that we will act swiftly to provide relief while holding the kim regime accountable for its human rights abuses. you know, for these reasons, i have repeatedly urged the biden administration and, you know, i have actually sent a bipartisan letter to the president biden to appoint a special envoy on north korean human rights issues to coordinate our approach to these issues. and furthermore, i hope to work within the study group to promote reunification issues, such as the reuniting of korean americans with their war and torn families in north korea. and i have been fortunate to have a co-sponsor and co-lead two bills on this. and i hope to raise it further among our group membership. and as you know, just today, we had a foreign affairs committee mark-up session, including these two bills that i just mentioned. so i hope that it will come to the floor swiftly, so i get to vote on it and get the passage out of it, too. so we are working our- i will make sure that korea is on top of the plate and front-banner. and we may have a visit from the south korean president, i guess, later or next month. so another reason, hopefully, that you can move these things forward. that is very welcome news. you know, you mentioned that i too was thrilled. i have to say that to see in the last election, not only for korean americans elected to the congress, but as you say, i mean, to korea, to republicans, to democrats, to- i guess three from the west coast, one from the east coast. and- but that is all three women. zero to three. so- and he is lucky. yes, he is around it by three ladies. so you are a pretty tight group, huh? yes, we are. yes, we are. you know, so the four of us, you know, everywhere we go, we are rarely mentioned separately, especially in the case of my dear friend and colleague and my sister, michelle still, from orange county. we are always mentioned together in any of our public appearances or even the interviews. so yeah, we are currently working together to bring bipartisan awareness to important issues that affect, especially our korean american community, which is the reason why we are able to work together to introduce that bipartisan bill to allow the korean american families to be included in the next round of korean unification when we, you know, when we do this. so i am so glad that that bill just got passed out of the foreign affairs committee during the markup session. and you also may know that there is a gentleman that i greatly admire who is no longer with us, but colonel young-kam. i enjoyed knowing him and getting to work with him in our community through korean american coalition, korean american youth community and many other organizations. he is, you know, we are working to, you know, work on a bipartisan bill to provide him with the belated post-mas congressional goal matter to colonel young-kam. and we introduced it together. it was a bipartisan bill. and if we do not do it as korean american legislators working in congress, i do not know who will pay attention to this. so these are just some of the examples i mentioned, but i hope we can continue to work together to bring awareness on these issues, plus many more that is impacting our community. yeah. and i mean, in addition to, i mean, all the things you have mentioned to the importance of the specific issue itself, i mean, the reunification of families, the honoring of people, it does you say brings awareness to people to a broader audience who think they know something about korea, but i mean, i still find after all these years, i am constantly discovering the richness, you know, in the depth of this relationship. so highlighting all that and you have a great platform to do it is a very welcome and important thing. i am going to shift back a little bit before i actually, in a way, women and leadership, although men and leadership also have children, but you did mention, and we know you are the proud mother of four children, it is because they all went to school at a great university. but i wanted to ask you both, women always get asked this question, but we are always curious. how do you manage that? and i am going to take your husband's part of the secret sauce here. but also in addition to that, i mean, how you have managed it, i mean, your thoughts going back to some of the policy things you are focused on about how the pandemic has affected women now, you know, in terms of making that work life balance even harder as we have had to juggle with education and so on. yeah. i mean, you are right. i am very fortunate. i am proud mother of four and you would not believe it because my name is young. so i always joke around, you know, i am forever young, even if my husband grows old, right? my children are really 34, 31, 29 and 26. so when they see that, then my kids are this old, they go, no way, you know, so how old were you when you got married? you know, i always say, i am only 15 and i am forever 29, right? but women and mothers, especially, you know, had to resolve conflicts and get things done. and i have seen that as i was raising my four kids, there is always two versus two always teaming up sometimes first and last one and sometimes, you know, first and second, but i have been able to balance and, you know, i am a libra. i was born in the year of the tiger. so i pride myself and call myself a tiger mob. you know, when you see your four children have grown up and they all turned out okay. i think i deserve that title, right? but, you know, my kids are grown up now, but i have great empathy for parents with young kids, especially during the covid-19 pandemic, having to juggle their jobs and working at home, all of a sudden finding themselves to be, you know, not only a room mom and volunteering once in a while in classroom, you are actually trying to be a teacher and doing everything. so i really empathize with them and i really give them a lot of credit, but i am very excited that we now have more women serving in congress. and i hope that we can come together to create policies that support women. do you think that there will be a greater role for eyes or in the public sector for things like childcare and support for working mothers or? i mean, i think there was a natural because again, we have, you know, in this, especially in class of 2020, we have young mothers, some single mothers with young kids. look, for example, julia letlow, you know the story about her husband who was elected with my class, but just days before he was sworn in, he unfortunately passed due to covid. but she took the torch and decided to just jump in the race to carry out the legacy that he had. and she had, she is a mother of very young two kids, like four years old and two years old. i mean, i give her a lot of credit. and with that, obviously, we are talking about balancing work, life, being a mom, and she is obviously work at a university. so she is a working professional. and we talk about how we can manage all of that. but you know, if we talk about childcare at workplaces, i think those are natural things that we would be working on as a woman working in this environment. so yeah, i see that coming out. it is good to have some legislators who have that personal experience, right? that is help. you know, i mean, again, you have such an inspiring story, but i have to ask you too. i mean, certainly there is probably been some times when you faced stereotypes because of your gender or your ethnicity or even barriers because your korean american or because if your background is an immigrant. and i know people have been interested in any story you might tell of how you dealt with that or advice about that or maybe not. but it is a tough story. it is all about attitude. you know, if you think you are faced with a discrimination, but you know how you deal with it, how you tough it out. i think it all depends on who you are and what kind of personality you have. but i think the fact that we have so many historic number of women in congress today shows how far women have come and getting into leadership positions. and so i say, you know, you have to be confident and do not let others perceptions of you hold you back from achieving your dreams. and i am grateful for the woman that paved the way for someone like me to be in this position. and there have certainly been some haters along the way. and i have dealt with stereotype, you know, such as when i travel on kodal with members of congress, i am perceived to be just a lowly junior staff or just a translator, especially when i go to korea, you know, or just someone who is caring and delivering coffee. but you know, i just make sure that i did not let those perceptions define me or stop me from performing my duties. right. no, it is an issue in korea, it is still an issue in this country. that is right. yeah. and we, yeah. but yes, i think you and i both seem quite a bit of change too, which is good. yes. but also on a kind of a very painful topic. and i know you have been active on it, you know, in recent weeks and months, we have seen the asian community and especially asian women, the victims of horrible hate crime attacks and worse. and i think certainly now there is, i hear and i wonder what you are hearing that among many communities, there is a, there is a, a, a, awareness and a worry about, you know, going out and about in public and how and what might happen. i just wonder, you know, what you think can be done about that either at the, at the public policy level or at the individual level. i know there has been some legislation on the hill. and in fact, i heard something was in the senate today, but what is, what is the, what is your advice here and what do you think the right approaches? you know, you talk about the legislation. i did sign on to a bill that would create a bipartisan commission to look into these hate crimes. so we can create a lasting solution. but i think it is really important to remember that we cannot legislate hate out of our hearts and minds. real change happens with each of us taking personal responsibility. so i will continue to work to help heal our divisions while speaking out for the aapi community. and, you know, because this, you know, crimes against asian community has been, you know, on the rise, especially because of the covid. but i think the more of us in leadership positions, speaking out for the aapi community, and as it experienced bias and attack, i think that is important. but i just want to say that the rise in violence and hateful actions we have seen across us communities, especially during covid-19 pandemic is just a poran. it is unacceptable and has to stop. but i think with, we speak out and it is more important that like i said, either legislation that i helped to introduce will help to create a commission to really look into this so that we can prevent future crimes from occurring. and when it does, we have a way to try to solve it. and speaking out is so important. yeah, it is very disturbing. i know you have been very generous with your time after a very, very busy day. and i do not want to tell you too long, but i do want to say, i mean, first of all, much as the korea society president, tom burns, at the beginning, we really do appreciate, you know, your continued engagement, not just starting this year or three years ago, but for many, many years in a whole range of activities related to strengthening the ties between the united states and korea, between the people. i mean, again, you personify that between the people of the united states and the people of korea. that is what the korea society is set up to do. and, you know, i welcome any advice you have or thoughts on how the korea society can play this role better. we certainly are trying to reach out beyond new york city. well, we are all reaching out in the virtual world now, trying to use the virtual world we have, but really look at some of the shared challenges we face. but we certainly look for your engagement and also your counsel and advice on how we can do this better. yeah, you know, certainly i am really excited to work with my colleagues and leading that important bipartisan discussion on the issues that affect us-korea relationship. and in fact, hopefully, as an asian american who is fully bilingual, bicultural, but you are included too because you are bilingual, bicultural now, you know, you may not look like me, korean, but you speak korean. so after this, i know you can, you and i can go off and have a drink and speak in korean. i know you can do that. so i think between the two of us, again, as leaders, you know, i think we can bring unique perspectives, focusing more on people to people, public diplomacy. and i already discussed this before, but it is worth repeating that, you know, there are a lot of issues that require our attention and immediate action, such as the division of families across north and south korea and on the korean diaspora. so i am glad to see that the bills that we are talking about, including the korean americans in this next round of, you know, unification process, these are the ways that we can, you know, advocate on these issues and use our positions and our voices. but more importantly, using, you know, your organization and my position in hearing congress, we need to continue to speak out on the human rights situation in north korea, because that is an issue which i hope to shine a light on as a co-chair of the korea study group. and our country and its allies must recognize and embrace that confronting north korea on its horrendous human rights abuses is essential to securing very fiable commitments from the, the kim regime and appointing the values of our nation. so i will continue to speak out and i look forward to continuing to work with you on all of these important issues. thank you. it is much, much appreciated. the, and i was very glad to hear you reiterate the, the importance you are attaching to having a special envoy in that role that congress created well over a decade ago, and we have just been infy now for several years. and then working with that person and with congress closely on these issues, i mean, i think, you know, the korean american community is only going to play a larger role, i think, and rightly so in the unfinished business of the korean peninsula, because it certainly is about division and nuclear weapons and security threats, but it is also about about human tragedy. and i know that is still very deeply felt in the korean american community and something we want to not only not forget, but really find ways to address. so thank you for that advice and that encouragement. i am so grateful to you for your time and for this conversation. i hope we can continue it maybe in person next time. yes, but please, like, thank you so much for coming. thank you. thank you so much. thank you. thank you very much.