well, just days after a surprisingly warm, oval office meeting with president trump, new york city's mayor-elect, democratic socialists, zoraan mamdani, is doubling down on calling the president a fascist and a despot, even as he says they agree on the city's affordability crisis. this comes days after the house overwhelmingly passed a measure condemning socialism. republican california congresswoman young kim said this on the house floor before that vote. as a korean-american who grew up in the aftermath of the korean war, i have witnessed the horrors of socialism first-hand. if you want to see the difference between socialism and freedom, just look at the korean peninsula and night. south korea shines with opportunity. north korea is trapped in darkness. socialist ideas gained traction here at home. and as our nation's largest city and financial capital has elected not just a socialist, but a communist as mayor, we must firmly demand our capitalist free-market system, which empowers americans of all backgrounds to achieve freedom, opportunity, and prosperity. president obama, congresswoman kim joins us now. congresswoman, congresswoman, thank you for being with us today. great remarks on the house floor, but apparently a lot of americans, maybe especially young people, are not necessarily believing them because zoraan mamdani got elected. why? well, look, first of all, let me talk about my quick, you know, why i am so passionate that we need to denounce socialism. and my parents left north korea during the korean war to escape socialism and threats of communism. and i grew up hearing about the dangers of living in those repressive society. and because my parents made the sacrifice to yet again immigrate my family to america, i am lucky to be living in a land of the free and live the american dream. i want the same for my children and grandchildren. and that is why, as a member of the house foreign affairs committee, after decades of being in the united states, i am so fortunate to say that the satellite images in the korean peninsula and night is what is going to make the difference between socialism and freedom. that is why i said, compared south korea, that shines with prosperity and opportunity while north korea is trapped with repression and darkness. and my mother-in-law risked her life crossing dms in multiple times to rescue her loved ones from the north korean regime. so i grew up knowing and hearing about what the socialism would do to a, you know, one's country, family, and, you know, taking away the freedom. but there are american young people who did not have the experience you did, who did not, you know, start out life in a communist country, who really think that socialism is a great thing. charlie kirk talked about it at the turning point usa summit back in july. listen. now, we should booze, oh, ron mamdanic, but we fail to understand why he is rising. there is a deeper thing at play. younger voters are trying to get their leader's attention. we cannot afford anything. homes are out of reach. i am tired of renting all the time and i have zero equity to my name. if we do not solve the economic disorder that is facing this generation from the debts, the deficits, student loan debt, cost of living, then mamdani will just be the beginning of what you are going to see in communities across the country. he calls it economic disorder and it comes under a capitalist system, does it not? well, first of all, i was very pleasantly surprised with the mamdani and president trump meeting, but i was also relieved to see president trump giving him a warm welcome to the white house, indeed, exchange, culture, exchanges. so i think this is what i think was happening. i believe president trump was almost like the president trump cheering on the sun was returning home, trying to live from a better field, right? but they are meeting turned out to be surprising, the amicable, at least optically wise. but i think that is because they both went into the meeting with a purposeful attitude. one thing was certain, they both passionately loved new york city, but they have areas of disagreements, but they focus on what they want and do in terms of making life affordable and cost of living and addressing the public safety issues. but behind the post-doors, i think president trump may have given him some bodily advice. they cannot find common ground on socialism. but i believe they had a hard-to-hard conversation and they tried to find common ground on how to drive new york city forward, which in turn would drive america forward. that is exactly what president trump was doing. and that is why president trump wished him well and he said, the better he does than happy who i am and i will be cheering for him. to be honest, i as president trump said, i want my life to be in the right direction. but i want to thank him for the hard-working new york city residents for the american people. but let us be realistic here. they agreed on what the share of policy concerns are, like the cost of living, rent, utilities, housing, and affordability of public safety. but i would cautiously watch where they align on how to solve those issues. remember, president trump is a conservative populist republican. and dany, describes himself as a democratic socialist. we cannot let dangerous socialist ideologies sneak into our nation under the guise of rent, control, housing, and free-brew streets. mandani cannot pay on those issues. americans are not stupid, right? they are worried about affordability, but they also know that freedom is not free. everything comes in a price. if you do not pay it at the counter, the bills still comes due. because of all these swipes, your liberties to cover the tap. so i wish we can find some common ground, and i want him to succeed. but again, for the sake of hard-working americans, and i was studying with the new york city residents. yeah, he has promised new york city a lot of free stuff. we will see how it all turns out. republican, california congresswoman, young kim. thank you. thank you for having me. hey, sean hannity here. click here to subscribe to fox news youtube page and catch our hottest interviews. and most compelling analysis, you will not get it anywhere else.