okay, welcome everyone. i do want to mention that our next speaker, bob scott, is an asshole. or so he is been called, according to an article about him in smoky mountain news. why? because this mild mannered humanist mayor of franklin north carolina had the audacity to take his oath of office with his hand on the us constitution instead of on a bible. many of you know that i ran for governor of south carolina as a candidate without a prayer. and what have done as bob scott did had i been elected. so here's the difference between bob and me in words that donald trump would use. herb silverman is a loser and bob scott is a winner. so i am pleased to introduce a huge winner, bob scott, who will tell his fascinating story. well, i want to start out by saying that i will never come to another american humanist association meeting wearing a coat and tie. the reason is when i go through the lobby, people do not know if i am the dormant, the bell hop or tour guide. so i get asked all kind of questions which i cannot answer and do not intend to answer. but let me just say that i am delighted to see so many of you here. i am known as somewhat of a relaxing speaker because you can go home with nothing on your mind. and i want to say it, it is been kind of a relatively routine recent day for me being the mayor of franklin, north carolina in the state where it does matter what bathroom you use. we are a town of 3,800. there is more people in this hotel than live in franklin. the closest well-known landmark is the casino at cherokee where the county seat of macon county were almost surrounded by the nanna hill and national forest. we are about 40 miles from the great smoky mountains national park. we have, we boarded the georgia state line. we have 60 miles of appalachian trail into county, made famous recently by bill bryson, his book and the movie i walk in the woods. i found it hilarious, particularly the book about what he said about franklin. however, others thought his description of franklin to be downright degrading. we also have a barter trail. we have a half dozen or more mountains that are between 5,000 and 6,000 feet high in the county. that morning i had to deal with a woman who called wanting to know what i was going to do about a dead deer in her yard. i took care of it. later a woman called me that she and her granddaughter were in a main street store and had bought something. she dropped the sale slip and the helpful owner bent down to pick it up for her and when he did a pistol fell out of his pocket and almost hit the grand-child on the toe. she called me the grandmother calling me extremely upset and i told her calm down. i will go over and talk to the store owner. i did. so i went to the store and i told the owner to keep that damn pistol snapped into his vest. he assured me he would. the police chief called me that the police had gotten a call. there was a man in the ace hardware with his pants on back. the police escorted him out of town. a little later i got a call that the police had to respond to a call at walmart where a woman was stabbing a car with a knife. i told the police chief good luck with that one. as i said it was just kind of a typical day for me as a mayor. that afternoon i got a call from the local tv station that the station wanted to do a story on my swearing on the constitution instead of a bible when i was sworn into as my second term as mayor. as a former longtime newsman i get better so just hold the up close. as a former longtime newspaper reporter i thought why in the world is this news? but i agreed to and looking back i am not sure i should have because that is give the interview because that is going all heck broke loose. but let me back up and tell you why i took my oath on the constitution rather than a bible. i know document it all. i have never been a particular religious person although i come from a long line of presbyterian ministers and a theologian or two. my mama never forgave me for not becoming a presbyterian minister. my first cousin and some of this you will find interesting was edwin kagan. right now he was one of the nation's most famous secularists who founded camp quest for children a camp for children free of any religious doctrine. edwin and i were born i was born exactly one month before edwin in the same hospital in greenville south carolina. unfortunately edwin and i really never knew each other because they moved to kentucky and i never had much dealings with edwin until he died and his sister called me to tell me that he had died. so it is a small world sometimes. my first college was brevard college at that time it was a two-year methodist school and i must admit it was a very good school. it is a very good school but that was at the time the student protest movement was beginning and i did not want to get it left out. i became part of a small group who started protesting about everything. you name it with protest against it. it was also in 1959 the beginning of the civil rights movement and we also embraced it. my first attempt at being a protesting rabble rouser got me uninvited to return for a second year at brevard. so i got a job as a rookie reporter and photographer back home at the greenville south khan and used piedmont. i fell in love with newspapers. i used family influence and got accepted at furman university a back to school. so for the next two years i worked as a photographer and reporter at the greenville news piedmont at night and attended furman during the day. however my protesting continued and like many students we were asking embarrassing questions of the administration of colleges and universities at that time. so after almost two years of my protesting shenanigans at furman i was again uninvited to return the next year. at that time the united states and russia were locked eye to eye in a battle of wits over missiles and cuba. like many others i thought we were all going to die in a nuclear war over those missiles. so remember now that this was at the height of the cold war. those were the days of the cuban missile crisis. so knowing that i was going to be a victim i figured i might as well die with some of my childhood friends. on a monday night in october 1962 the world was waiting for that nuclear holocaust. that night i found the local national guard unit having a drill so i went in and joined up. that began 12 years of service in the guard and the army reserve. it also began my disillusionment with the government and the abuse of power. later after the publishing of the pentagon papers like many others i realized our government had lied to us about the vietnam war. so like many of those of my generation we became suspicious of many things we were told. it was an era when we did not trust anyone over 30 and now my apologies i trust no one under 30. my generation lived through a presidential assassination, the resignation of a president, vague memories of the macarthur red square hearings, sputnik, seeing the man walk on the moon, vietnam, grenada, invasion of panama and dozens of other small wars. now your youngsters are seeing the aftermath of wars in iraq and afghanistan. the growth of isis, profiterian from war, profiterian from war, a nation moving toward becoming a combination of oligarchy, plutocracy and possibly theocracy. i am not sure which is the greater threat. i was one of those young people who were admirers of president kennedy. president kennedy was a believer in building a wall of separation between religion and government. that made a lasting impression on me. so that is the background why i chose to use the constitution rather than being sworn in on a bible as i began my second term as mayor. all i did was place my hand on a copy of the constitution while swearing to uphold the constitution and the laws of north carolina. when i did not use the bible and the local tv station ran the story and interviewed me about why i did not use the bible. some christians and evangelicals began to campaign against me in the local newspapers and all over social media. up until that time i would had great support. i won my first term with 72% of the vote running against a very popular woman and a fellow board member who was a local high school teacher for more than 30 years, a native of franklin and whose husband and my wife are first cousins. we ran in the same social circles and we are very good friends. i may have been one of the first or maybe the first non-native mayors. when i ran for my second term i ran unopposed. prior to becoming mayor i had served 11 years on the town board. anyhow i thought it made much more sense to swear on the constitution than the bible. several other factors influenced my making that decision. the first was going to another local politician came into my office and asked me if i was an atheist. i was kind of taken back by that but i told him i was an agnostic but i do not think you knew what that meant. so i wound up telling him i did not have any belief one way or the other and i could did not tell that i was probably in trouble. i finally told him that my religious beliefs or non-beliefs had no bearing on the office of mayor and i could not help it if he could not live with that but that was the way it was going to be. never heard anything more out of him as far as religion was concerned. some people refer to our country, our area of the country as the buckle on the bible belt but i do not necessarily agree with that. actually western north carolina is beginning to be known for embracing diversity and our population is growing. asheville is 60 miles east of franklin and there is probably no more liberal or diverse city now in north carolina than asheville. as a prime example diversity has always been in my campaign for running for office i believe in diversity that we serve everyone. i think the reason why we are attracting so many new people is because they are wanting to leave cities and come to remote areas and but at the same time we have also attracted some rather strange people. eric rudolph, the olympic and abortion clinic bomber was from macon county. we looked for him for five years after he did the bombing in birmingham and we also have people like a guy by the name of lord davis who organized something called north point teams he invented with bo grites, a former special forces colonel who ran for president. nord was going to be a secretary of defense. regardless of all this though i love western north carolina. i think if you have ever been to that part of the country you will love it too. now as a former journalist i am known for being a boar when it comes to the first amendment. i even got attacked too at 70 in honor of the first amendment. my wife still has not spoken to me. i guess i might as well. what do you think? there is my first amendment tattoo. it is a quill like the guys used to to sign the constitution. i can talk all day on the value of the first amendment and i have been known to do so. i can i will stand up for anyone's right to take an oath on the bible, the quran, or even the post-apherians who are members of the church of the flying spaghetti monsters taking the oath on a comic book. the issue with me is whether you are swearing to uphold the law and the freedom spelled out in the constitution not a religion. however i quickly found that my views on the first amendment and the establishment clause did not agree with the number of the folks in western north carolina. however, mentioned the second amendment and some real constitutional experts come out of the woodwork. just hours after the local tv station aired the interview with me the ranting began. the rants were on social media, facebook, and the local newspapers and in emails to me. i have also been criticized openly on the street when i meet someone who is upset at how i chose to be sworn. here is a sampling and this is one from a wife of a friend who i am friends with in the hiking club. she said embarrassing especially for this town. at least we all know where he stands. proud humanist pagan. interestingly that was one of the nicer and more civil reactions i have had. the reverend dr. mark creech, the christian action league executive director and raleigh sent out a statewide message to his followers that quote, may have scott certainly has the right to reject putting his hand on the bible when taking oath of office but his choice sends a dangerous message that places every citizen at risk. his actions declare the erroneous notion that our rights come from the state, not god. oh yeah, it is getting even better. perhaps among the most disturbing letters i receive said, not quote, curious to know why you chose to deny christ. this country was founded on christian values. the constitution clearly states that. you are a disgrace and you should not be sucking the government tit anymore. take nancy and your godlessness back to south carolina where you belong, asshole. now let me tell you what that one did. it is strongly reinforced my belief in reincarnation because i believe in some earlier life he was part of a horse. i figured it up one day. one day, how much i was making sucking at the government tit. when you look at what i am paid for the hours i put in being mayor, i am sucking at the government tit for about $2.25 an hour. our local news paper, the franklin press has a front page feature called ranson rays where they publish anonymous allegations, comments and just awful near-levelest things against certain people except for the local sacred cows of which i am not one. here are a few of the examples on the front page of the franklin press's ranson rays. quote, elected officials should only be sworn in on the bible if they plan on adhering to jesus' teachings when passing legislation. actions speak louder than words. it is shameful that the mayor of franklin cannot put his hand on the bible and recognize god while being sworn in to office. i pray to god every day that bob scott resigns. he is not the man for the job. i do not know how you get rid of an inept mayor in north carolina but there has to be a way in residence of franklin should look into it. i thought our mayor was a better man than he has shown in the past two weeks. he is embarrassing our town. looks like the mayor is deflecting criticism from the fire department fiasco by screaming that he is an atheist at anyone who will listen. when i tried to explain why i did what i did to a person who sent me an email, he was the reply. his reply. what a crock of absolute bs. i love to hear windbag and thug politicians talk about the constitution and laws of the land. the only time a politician pays attention to either is when it benefits them. since you do not like the bible, you may want to open it and do a little research. you will find there is a law that overrides all of man's laws if they do not agree with his and that is all capitalized. do you have a clue who this is? well he went on and on and he complained about rhinos which apparently is a republican in name only. liberals windbag politicians in the death of america. it appears to me this is just another case of political correctness that has consumed this once great country. nancy and i were talking the other night and we both agreed that although i have been an effective mayor and orchestrated many changes, if the election were held now and i had anyone running against me i probably would not get elected. i think this whole fiasco would define my terms as mayor but on the other hand i still have many many people who support me. amazingly some of my strongest supporters and this is going to surprise you is coming from some of the real right-wing tea party types who will support my stance on the first amendment although we adamantly disagree on the second amendment. in addition, several ministers of the major denominations have called me with words of encouragement and sympathy. when our county commissioners voted, let us see i punched this. all right, when our county commissioners voted without public comment to place in god we trust on the courthouse. i became offended that the commissioners showed little understanding of the establishment and clause of the first amendment and then our local sheriff let me split through those. one thing that you might want to notice right here about this, the in god we trust is in letters this twice as high as the letters that say making county courthouse. and they put this on all the entrances to the courthouse and in the board rooms on the inside. and this is being done by a group that is going around north carolina urging all local governments to do this. and i have talked to our legal counsel at the humanist association. i have talked to the freedom for religion folks. we cannot seem to do anything about it because in the 1950s there was that so-called official motto of the united states. and then also this kind of concern me the local sheriff began putting this on all the county-owned patrol cars. so that probably more than any one thing has caused me to begin to publicly and openly support secular government. i will accept an invitation to go and speak anywhere if i am ace because i am really concerned about this. and over probably over 50% of the local governments in north carolina have caved into this group with their in god we trust on courthouse. oh i am getting a late year. so predictably i am just amazed at how many people do not know. i do not want to know that the under god in the pledge of allegiance is relatively recent thing passed in the 1950s during the height of the cold war. i am getting real close here. i will just kind of close up here. i would never have dreamed when all this happened for about 15 minutes i would be one of the most controversial mayors in the united states. but i just want to wind up here and just say that donald trump says that if he is elected president he will build a wall between mexico and the united states. well old bob scott says if i ever get elected any higher office i will strengthen and build the wall between religion and government even higher. do we have? do we have? oh we do have time. oh okay. we have time for some questions. oh good. i was thinking you were trying to shut me up. oh okay let us have some questions. yes sir. yeah mr. mayor what do you do for a living? i mean for $2.25 an hour are you full-time mayor or do you have a job? i am pretty much full-time although we have a town manager that is responsible for the day-to-day operation. i am retired. i am actually retired from law enforcement believe it or not. but i am retired. i spent probably 20-25 hours a week at the town hall. in fact i am going to have to leave here before the programs are over tomorrow because i am giving a memorial day speech at the veterans memorial monday morning early. just remember in god we trust all of this pay cash. yes i really if if it ever became a point for our board i am going to request if we got to put something on the courthouse it is going to be we the people are it is going to be let us see we the people are in reason we trust. because i do not care who you are when you come through the doors of a municipal building paid for by taxpayer money you are the same you are going to be treated the same yes madam. to draw attention to the problem with one nation under god i am going to tell you how i pledge allegiance and i would like to get your reaction to do you think this is a constructive way to draw attention to the problem and get it changed this is what i say i pledge allegiance to the flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands one nation under law indivisible with liberty and justice well i have no problem with that at all i wish we would just go back to the original pledge of allegiance which i believe was 1952 54 that is the idea but the point is this is a way to draw attention to it and get us back there you are welcome to come to the town board and lead lead the pledge you just let me know when you all to come i will take care of it yes madam i am an elected official a minor elected official in the little town where i come from but i am involved in town budgets enough to take a look at that signage and say how much did that cost well let me tell you how the was that done on the taxpayers do not know it was done by this organization they made a point of letting us know there was no tax dollars well now let me tell you being mayor of franklin north carolina is even less it is an even tinier thing but no they they have been very slick about that the decals for the sheriff's cars were paid by a local businessman and that is how they are getting around it but okay so but what about the actual work hours involved in putting all that signage up with those town employees they do not want no no they send a bucket truck with their own workers they have thought this thing out very well interesting thank you yeah very interesting yes madam i am curious when your current term is over if you are going to run again i do not know i do not know when you turn over it will be i have got night i have got 19 more months to serve okay so it will be december of 20th to 2018 did not you have not decided yet not yet mm-hmm i tell you the i thought they were my supporters at first i looked out the wonder and there were people carrying pitchforks and torches so i am not really sure yet my wife told me the other night we had a little hard to hard talk about it she said that this job has probably aged me five years and so i do not know i do not know good luck in whatever you decide thank you so much pardon i have a very yeah nobody even ran against me though so i have a very simple question yes sir your speech was a damn fine one well thank you done by a very fine man and i am hard to hear and i missed a word here and there will you email that made your speech to me yes if you leave your email address i will be glad to i would love i think it was superb but i want every damn word it was so good let me tell you you are not the only one that has some trouble i have trouble hearing myself yeah if you could just give it to dry it down to somebody okay let me give you something to write on oh yeah if you would i will be glad to do that for you yes madam i am from north carolina so a very small town and i worry that exactly what happened in your town could happen in my town in god we trust over the thresholds of the doors to our public places so you said that this was paid for by a local business man but the stickers on the sheriff's car the sheriff said that a local businessman he has not said who it was paid for the stickers on his now this the in god we trust people that are going around the state they bring their own work they put they put the signs up the commission is voted did not even have any public comment but they went behind closed doors with their lawyer because they said they were exercising the attorney client privilege of meeting in secret and came out and voted to go along with this group so if this group can do it or a businessman can put the stickers on the cars then why cannot any group do it and if one group can do it can another group say well i want to fund some wording over one of these doors or on one of these cars and how could that not be permitted you know i do not know maybe you need to talk to david i think they did need us because i am not sure i am the one day i would like to get a heads up or a step ahead in our town and maybe get something going so that we could get some reason it is that onslaught county no it is it is craven county craven county i am surprised they have not been there they may have already been voted down i am too several counties have said and towns have told him we are not doing this we are just not doing it pardon could i do it i am sorry i am afraid you would get arrested no man it was not illegal see that is that is the big issue right now the the hook is they are saying and they are claiming that that was the national motto and i have talked to the legal folks at the freedom from religion the american humanist association and i think david spoke to that or he did we are just up against a wall and it is not a wall of separation between church and state yes me i am back with my elected official hat on here and i am wondering about that closed door meeting which seems to me like it breaks every open meeting long in the entire world it does accept the one thing and that is north carolina there is an exception for the attorney client privilege and apparently they were getting legal advice whether they should do this or not but that is one of the exceptions that we have in north carolina such as you can go behind closed doors to talk about a mental patient these these type of things personnel issues that is one of the things that you can do is meet behind closed doors with your attorney it sounds to me like we have to go back to argue that the motto in god we trust violates the separation of the church state wall and that is going to take a while but that president needs to be set i think what you have to do is go back and look at the times in which this was done also it was at the height of the cold war and we were we were fighting godless communism and there is a pretty interesting history i think eisenhower was president yeah it is it is an interesting situation how it came came about i am very worried that if you could get this to the supreme court the way the supreme court is right now i think you would have a tide vote until we get another justice in place any further questions have we run out of time okay megan thank you so much you all have been a wonderful group thank you