give us a sense of when you were coming into work this morning, what was the feeling? did you feel that this had the potential to happen? what we are seeing right now? we were prepared and anticipated a large crowd. we anticipated a lot of people coming in to make their voices heard, which happens a lot in our nation's capital. but the volume and extent of what is happening right now is more than we had anticipated. and what is it like just to just describe as you are there right now, what is happening? there is a very heavy police presence. a lot of roads around the capital complex perimeter have been blocked off and a lot of capital police out and about. i am not in the capital building, which is where a lot of the heavy action is right now. but they have been able to reach the capital building and that is something that is unprecedented in my 20 years on capital home. are you able to look out a window and see what is happening? i am looking out a window, but i am not looking at the capital. our office does not look at the capital that is not where our office is situated. so i cannot give you a visual of the capital from where i am looking right now. how close are you? well, we are about, you know, half a block from the capital, but we are on the other side of the building and we have been instructed to remain in our offices with our doors locked. and i have to ask the obligatory, how are you feeling right now? are you nervous? i want to make sure that everybody comes out of this safe and it is a little bit of rocking and unsettling, but i have faith in our police and i have sent in a record of people that this will hopefully come to a peaceful end. and to be clear, the capital police did have a game plan. we are not going to tip off what it is, but they had told you to be ready, right? they had a plan in place. they did have roads that they had closed off in anticipation of a heavy protest presence today. and so they were very prepared. the national park services here as well. the dc mayor called in the national guard to assist with everything. so they were definitely ramping up. i think that the volume is just a little bit more than was originally anticipated. have you been in touch with congressman franklin and has he texted you to tell you how he is right now? i have been in contact with him. he texted me to let me know that he is safe, that they are doing well and they are ready to continue to do the people's business. this is the opportunity presented stuff. and what is happening? are the congressmen actually locked down right now in that chamber? yes, they are. they are locked down in the house chamber for their safety. and i think that would be the case until they fill it up for them to either resume house business or for them to depart the capital building. and that was going to be my next question at this point. house businesses on hold. correct. they have put the house in recess until the safety of everyone has been resolved. you have been there 20 years. ever seen anything like this before? no sir. well, we will share that from your life there. what does it feel like to see this? unfortunately, it is historic. it is not the kind of history we like to write, but how does it feel to be part of this and see it firsthand? there are mixed emotions because i very much support the right of the american people to make their voices heard and to share their views. we have protests on a very regular basis here in the united states capital. the nation's capital is where people come to express their voice, make sure that it is heard and i support that and i embrace that. i just hope that everything that is happening now can be resolved in a very peaceful manner. and it is a presence and a feel that i have not experienced in my 20 years. on settling for you? well, it will be, is not settling. i just pray that everything comes out peacefully that we can have a peaceful resolution. people can continue to feel that their voices are being heard. i can assure you that the members of congress and the united states senate are listening, but how this will all play out is to be determined. and are you getting some sort of messages because when i called gifur if you said i think they just set off some tear gas? no, i saw on fox news that there were reports of tear gas in the us, in the us capital and congressman franklin had texted me that they had been given gas masks. and i think that is hopefully out of an abundance of caution, but clearly safety is the first priority.