music well, welcome to framework leadership, a podcast about principles and ideas you can use today to take your leadership to the next level. exclusively now, part of the scu podcast network on your host, kent engle, president of southeastern university. and excited to introduce our co-host for today's show, former congressman dennis ross. it is got franklin who is currently in the running for congress here in the 15th congressional district. excited to welcome you both to the show today. glad that you could be with us. thank you. thank you, dr. engle. you know, it is an honor to have you both with us for the show. and today's episode, i want to talk about the importance because this is such an important issue today, especially in our nation, civic engagement. people's voice being heard, people's voice matters. and we have to inspire and power people to give their voice and to not stand back. and i know both of you would agree that it is an america. it is americans responsibility to be involved with the issues that matter in our nation and our country as we are living in extremely polarizing times right now in the political climate. and i want to ask you both your motivation for pursuing a public office. and what that is, how it is important to you, the value of that and what you believe you would bring to that process to make a difference. both of you, but when you ran and that. you know, i go back to when i was a kid, when i was growing up here in lakeland, i got involved in the first earth day, believe it or not. and i went to the mayor's office and made a presentation about how we needed to be able to do better with some of our lakes and some of the parks here. and they took it to heart. and i realized that going through the process, you can effectuate change. and then i realized that really that is the responsibility for all of us. and as in a nation that is founded on self-government that we and at an early age, i realized that you could have a difference with an individual initiative. and as i became older, i got more involved in politics. it became more crystal clear that that you impact lives. and there are fewer people starting to do this, which makes it more central that we have good people doing this. scott, what about you as you have made this decision now to step in and to run for this seat? well, i congressman ross, i feel my whole life. i have been called in some way to serve. and for me, that first chapter was serving in the military. and it was the greatest privilege of my life. and it really afforded me the opportunity to experience our culture through the eyes of others around the world. and it really gave me appreciation for what all we are blessed with here. and you know, i always subscribe to the mantra, if not me, then who? absolutely. and that is critically important. yeah. and you have served this community well. you are currently a commissioner. and we are grateful for your leadership. scott, i want to talk to you for a minute about your career leading into politics, which you have mentioned. you spent about 26 years, 26 years talking about in the united states navy. during your 26 year career, you traveled all throughout the world serving faithfully. and when you retired from the navy, you came home to start your own small business. since you are no stranger to private enterprise, how has your political position been affected by your experiences as both a veteran, but also as a business owner? well, i have always believed that conservative principles do the most over the long run to lift people up out of their conditions. and i have seen that in other countries. i have seen countries who are at different stages of implementing democracy. i have seen other countries that did not have it at all. and i know that that is the right path for us. and i have just felt called to serve in that capacity here. yeah. why should other business, as a business owner, why should other business owners engage in the civic process? and what is the value of that? well, it is interesting. when i go back to my decision to run for city commission, i would find myself sitting around with a lot of my peers complaining about things that we did not like. and at the end, people would say, but who in the right mind would want to do that? and we all get busy doing our things and feel that someone else out there is going to be carrying the load. and that is not always the case. and when we start to see races go without a strong field of candidates to come in and try to compete for those, then i think that is a dangerous path. yeah. and i actually i would like to ask that question to you as well, dennis. why should business owners really jump into the process? several reasons. one, if they want to have a good consumer base in which they can have good customers, they would want them to be engaged in the process. businesses are absolutely connected to relationships. and one of the things that i have noticed is that those businesses that are more in tune to their community by building relationships, supporting programs, whether it be a nonprofit, whether it be a school, whether it be a hospital, those businesses do so much better. not only in their bottom line, but just in the retention of employees and the pride that those employees take in that business because they know they partner with that community. corporate citizenship is just as important as individual citizenship. but yeah, now the pandemic has really struck the small business community. there is no no doubt about it. in both of your opinions, what kind of legislation do we need right now to favor small business owners and help them grow and thrive past this, this pandemic? well, as a lawyer, i will tell you one of the things that concerns me is going to be the threat of lawsuits for liability from contracting covid. there would absolutely cripple a strong recovery in this economy. and i think until we know more about this virus, i think we have to focus on, of course, safety and welfare of each individual. but we also have to understand that the economic engines cannot be shut down and we need to be able to support and promote the wheels of commerce to start getting back together so that people can make a living and become productive again. it is going to be interesting to see what happens both in congress and in our state legislature with new laws that are going to be proposed that that concern themselves with the impact of covid. yeah, let us go. well, just to add to that, as we saw in the first waves of the covid relief, a lot of small businesses, you know, those business owners are the ones opening the doors in the morning closing and doing the books. and there was a lot of a lot of detail to get through to understand how the programs work. so i have been pleased to see how we have ramped up our education efforts around how to get these, get the funds into the hands of the people that need a most because it is so small businesses that are the most vulnerable. and to follow up, scott, talk to us a little bit about the city of lakeland's approach to this pandemic, how we have, you know, how we have been working to protect our small business owners here in central florida and in this community. well, we have, we start with city staff, you know, the city of lakeland is one of the largest employers, but because we have so many different facets to the city of lakeland organization, taking care of our city staff in areas where they were not able to work with face to face with customers. we found places where we could get them realigned and and all, you know, thankfully, gainfully employed and just reaching out through communication programs working with the chamber and other different groups to try to promote the information that we could see coming down through the government, make sure it was getting into the right hands. yeah. before we take a first break here, dennis, i want to talk to you about the acpo, which you have brought amazing leadership to and we are your gift to this community, your gift to this university and to our students. you are working with up and coming college students that absolutely want to pursue positions in public office. they do have a passion to make a difference and they want to be solutions to the issues and the challenges that we are facing as you are teaching and navigating this education process, what is different about the upcoming generation of political science students that you are seeing that you are observing as you spend time with them? well, probably the most impactful response i have seen is that once they are exposed to real life political leaders, they understand that they are no different than them and they have this passion now to want to become more like them and get involved in this process. when we took students to washington dc, we sat with secretary carson, who is the dr. carson who heads up the hud, housing and urban development, and to see the response from they realize that this is a man who came out of abject poverty, with an illiterate mother who disciplined them and he becomes the chief of neurology or a pediatric neurosurgery at johns hopkins, they also have these opportunities. and what i have seen is that they come into class because they want to be in class, but then all of a sudden they understand that politics permeates every aspect of life, every sector of every occupation and that they know that they can be those people that make that positive influence and they also know that we have to have those people. it is refreshing to see that. and scott, as a father, i mean, you have seen this next generation think about the political arena and what they have focused on, how is your family now, have you discussed the political issues that are facing us in our country today? well, they make for interesting conversations and we have had to establish some boundaries. sure. it is very encouraging to see how engaged all of our young people are. they have a lot of concern about the direction things are headed, probably more so than when i was a kid coming along. and they do want to talk about the issues. they really do. and so to give them opportunity, as i know that we strive to do here at southeastern, is important. they value that. in fact, actually a follow up, you mentioned boundaries because i think that is an important thing. what does it mean to establish boundaries? i think that is such an important aspect of building healthy conversation and dialogue today in our nation. i mean, yeah, we saw it front and center in a debate not too long ago. and you know, how do you talk to me about those banners? because that is important. well, it is cliche, but be able to disagree without being disagreeable. we have had to settle on that and define that for ourselves individually. but i think so much of it really comes down to our kids seeing what we model to them. and unfortunately, they are very frustrated to see just the level of just bitter parts and chip among adults that frankly do not act like adults a lot of times. so i think we need to be modeling better as the role models for our younger people. yeah, so good. well, we are going to take a quick commercial break. we will be right back after a word from our sponsors. if you are a driven professional striving to expand your leadership and pack change at any level of your organization, southeastern universities online masters degree in leadership is definitely for you. this program provides you the opportunity to learn in the context of entrepreneurship, nonprofit leadership, research or organizational leadership. you can apply today at scu.edu slash apply. that is su.edu slash apply. dennis and scott, i know you both are men of faith. and in today's political arena, it seems at times that there is no moral compass for navigating government and power. i know you both are men of integrity that lead from a place of deep conviction. how is your faith influenced your way of thinking in terms of the politics that you engage in and in terms of the decisions that have to be made for this nation? how does that faith inform you? well, if i might, you know, one of the things that i have struggled with for a long time is the building of my faith because i realize that faith is just not something that you achieve one day and it is always there. it is something you have to work at. and it is something that as you work at it, you become stronger at it. it is like exercise. it is a discipline. and i have enjoyed building my faith. i have enjoyed extending my relationships and learning more about other people's faith, how it is impacted their lives and help them overcome obstacles. and when they are down and when they are up to keep them in balance, you know, my faith has been probably one of the best things for me when it comes time to having to make decisions, especially as an elected official. because i know that i am never going to please everybody and that is okay. what i have to know is that i am doing what has been foundational in my beliefs. when we talk about a moral compass, we have to also understand that, you know, you have got a world out there that seems to get further and further from judeo-christian values and become more secular. and yet our founders were very faith-based. and they were so faith-based that they wanted to preserve everybody's right to practice their own faith. and for me, my faith has been the foundation upon which i have made some decisions that i found to be very difficult. but our time here is temporary anyway. and to know that you are doing something that you firmly believe in, although it is difficult, i might not be able to make it right, but i know that i can do the right thing. and that has been probably the best thing about my faith. that is good. my faith is clearly my azimuth. and i try to remind myself daily any time before we are going into any sort of political arena, whether it is a commission meeting or these campaign type events that i remember who i am. and that any decisions that we make or i am a part of will be pleasing to god when it is all over with. and i kind of have a little mantra that i go through and it is breath deep. yeah, assume positive intent and extend more grace than you expect in return. and i feel if we could go through a lot of our meetings with that sort of philosophy, we get more done. that would be great. have you ever found either one of you? have you ever found yourself caught between a rock in a hard place because of faith and how did you navigate that? has there been any moment at all during your tenure in public service? in some issues that i have taken on that i have had to be involved in whether it be dealing with right to life and limitations there. those that were a more purest and then their opinions would say this is not good enough, but it is better than what we have. and you have to wrestle with that is better than what we have good. yes, you know, we have got to keep moving the ball forward and while you cannot get everything you want, which is one of the most difficult things about being in the political world because you do have to compromise, you have to reach consensus. as long as you are getting closer to where you know you need to be as an individual and as a nation, i think you are doing the right things. and while those are difficult decisions, it does give you some solace to know that you are advancing what you believe to be your christian cause and values. yeah, that is good. well, i do struggle with some of those issues as well. and there are places that with my own faith are non-negotiable, but also recognizes as a government servant, i am still bound by whether it is the constitution or the laws that we have and we can try to fight for change, but it is chipping away a bit at the time. yeah, scott, you are running for election to the us house, you know, florida's 15th congressional district. this is the same congressional district that former congressman ross served in as you are approaching this election, which is going to happen here pretty soon november 3rd. what are some of the issues that you think we need to really focus on, take care of? what do you want to fight for as you potentially step into this public office? what will be the priority? well, first priority, and it would not have been on my radar screen at the beginning of the years, getting our country back to work. none of us anticipated being in the midst of the best economy we would ever had as a country to be where we are, but we are making progress on that. so that is first and foremost. next would be, gosh, there is a number of different areas. we have got to solve some very difficult problems that we need to figure out a way to put the political football aside and fix health care. we need to address immigration issues. we need to attack our spending. you know, we have added to our debt this year in ways that will come home to roost whether it is for my kids or grandkids. at some point, we are going to have to pay the piper. and then we have some some of our safety net programs that really need some fundamental corrections to them if they are going to be sustainable for the long run. but it is just very hard to get in that arena and get people to take their party persuasions off and settle down and fix problems. in your opinion, what what will be the biggest challenge to create solutions to these issues and priorities that that are going to be important? well, it would be easier. i can i can make assumptions, but i know it would come better from one who is been there. i just think trying to get through the partisan divide. and that is why i as a veteran, i am encouraged to see a lot more veterans being led to to seek higher office. i know right now we have got the biggest slate of veteran candidates from both the republican and the democrat side and generations. and we need that. i think you know, we have the lowest number of veterans serving in congress ever. and there is a lot of dissatisfaction from the public. so hopefully that that ability to work together as we learned in the military will help us there in congress. and dennis, i want to ask you, how do we get through that? i mean, you are doing a, and by the way, also a part of the scu podcast network, you are doing a brand new podcast that is going to be airing here soon. and i mean, you have worked behind the scenes. what does it take to truly break through and reach across the aisle and truly have consensus? there is a biblical principle. let us come and reason together so that we can make the right decisions that will benefit everybody. how do you really do that? you can build relationships. you find out that the person that is abjectly against you philosophically and politically is just like you as an individual. they want the same things for their family. they want to see a greater nation. and you find that there is commonality in your passions. yet there is a different direction by which you want to achieve those goals. one of the things we are doing at the acpl and one of the things i would love to see us do as a nation is learn how to effectuate good conversation that is controversial, but yet respectful. i know that i have got about as much chance changing one of my liberal friends' mind as they do me. but that does not mean i cannot become good friends with them. on our podcast that we are going to be doing, i have got some dear friends that are way across the aisle for me politically but have become very close to me as good good friends. and i think one of the things once you leave the process, you look back and say, goodness, why did not i reach out more often? why did not i understand that in order to build a good piece of legislation that it could not be all one sided? that no one party has a monopoly on all the ideas. the good ideas come from both sides. and that only happens if you build those relationships. yeah, rich. as we close our time together, a couple of questions. there are some citizens in our country that choose not to exercise their right to vote. they say that their vote actually is not going to make a difference. so why should i go out there and do that? what would your response be to these citizens who are choosing just to sit back on the side of the road? just to sit back on the side line because they do not think it is really going to count. if i might address that first of all, first of all, not to vote is as impactful as voting because you are empowering one of the other two candidates by not voting. second of all, i think you are doing a total disservice to your citizenship, which requires you to be actively engaged in this process. you may be disgusted with the people, but the only way you are going to change that is by asserting your right to vote so that as a consumer, you will change the product that you want to see that will accommodate you. the more we get involved, the more we vote, the better we mold the candidates we want to see and have the leadership that is necessary to effectuate the positive change that we want to see in this nation. it pains me to see that people sit at home and make up every excuse about not wanting to vote. it is one of the most fundamental rights. it is the only right that we have to exercise that can absolutely, if not exercise, take away all the other rights. that is why we have got to make sure that we do not lose our right that we continue to exercise that right to vote. it is our fundamental right. i mean, they are really all other rights we have as americans start there. there is no room to complain if we do not participate. somewhere out across this country, there will be races that will be decided by such slim margins that the people who sat back and did not vote would have made the difference. we are about to hit probably the most divisive election we have ever had. or in quite some time, what do you think the catalyst will be no matter the outcome to bring healing to this nation? well, it has to start with each individual knowing that they are the agents of change to make this nation better than it was. otherwise, it will be a cataclysmic event that brings us together and i do not want to see that happen. whether it be another 9-11 or whether it be a natural disaster, whether it be an economic collapse, those types of things bring us together involuntarily. but if we were to open our eyes and see that we can be those agents of change, that it is not about partisanship, but it is about patriotism, it is about being part of a nation that has a history unlike any known to mankind. and the potential out there for continued success and sustainability is amazing, but it has to be each one of us. it is the same way of having faith, it is a discipline that you exercise every day of your life and eventually we get there. yeah, i agree. when we look back through our nation's history, the times that we have come together, the greatest have been the times following the greatest calamities. and i think initiatives like south eastern zoo and here with this school, getting civics back into the classroom, making people understand teaching that because sadly, a lot of people just do not have that fundamental knowledge. yeah. and that is what we are striving to do. make it evident how important their participation is. absolutely. dennis served in the seat that you are vying for for eight years. dennis, any parting advice to scott as he heads into the closing weeks of this? well, let me preface my comments by saying i am glad i am not running against him. and let me just talk because i want to make this clear at the acpl, we try not to dabble in policy, we look at process. and one of the things we focus on on process is what would you want in the qualities of your leader? what would you want in a person who would exemplify those characteristics of statesmanship? and i can tell you that scott does that. i will not address any of his policies that is for him to do in his campaign, but as an individual who has shown the qualities of leadership, not just in his campaign, but also as a father, as a businessman, as a patriot veteran of the united states navy. those are the qualities we need to see in people. and i do not care if they are left, right or in the middle. that is what we want to see. and so i just encourage you to continue the track you are on. i think that it will benefit not only you, but a very good nation. well, thank you. scott and dennis, i want to thank you both for joining me today on the framework leadership podcast. i am thankful for the insight that you bring our community, a tremendous value. and the way that we need to be involved in civics is so important. for all of our listeners, i hope that you leave this conversation today with a desire to be involved and make a difference in the things going on in our nation, whether you believe it or not, the people that we elect into public office actually make a difference in this nation. do some research, go out to the polls on november 3rd to make your voice heard. we will see you next time on framework leadership.