thank you. i can bear i should have worn my high heels that i have. well let me just tell you i believe this is our largest crowd in the campaign. and i feel grateful this is our first time in the world. i am so proud of you. i am so proud of you. i am so proud of you. i am so proud of you. i am so proud of you. i am so proud of you. and i am so grateful this is our first event after a great night inside carolina. and i want you to believe something. i know how difficult things may seem but i want you to believe this because it is true. our greatest days in this country are within our reach. they are within our reach. but we have to take care of business right now. the last eight years have been a very bad time for this country because we have been led by people that have tried to change this country. barack obama, when he was elected, he was not just interested in fixing america's problems. he wanted to make us more like another country. he wanted america to be more like other nations and other parts of the world. we do not want to be like other countries. we want to be the united states of america. and so after eight years of damage, we cannot afford to get this election wrong. and bernie sanders or hillary clinton were to win this election. we will have gotten this election terribly wrong. because bernie sanders is a socialist. now usually when you say that about someone in politics day to night, bernie sanders says it is commercial. and i do not understand why you would be a socialist and run for office in america. there are dozens of countries in the world that are socialist countries. if you want to let any socialist country, you should move to a socialist country. the one who created this, you cannot hurt bernie, you can skip rick clinton. well hillary clinton is not qualified to be president of the united states. she took intelligence information, sensitive information, and she put it on her email server because she believes that she is above the law. i am convinced that her plan was she was going to win an election and she would pardon herself. no one is above the law. and that irresponsible behavior disqualifies you from being president. but she is also disqualified from being command or achieve it. because on the 11th of september of the year 2012, four americans lost their lives in the service of our country in benghazi. and she knew that they lost their lives because of a terrorist attack. and yet when she spoke to the families of those four americans, she lied to them. she told them that they had died because of a video. and i believe that anyone who lies to the families of americans who have lost their lives in the service of our country can never be command or achieve from the united states. so we have to win this election. and how did we win this election? first we went in by coming together. right. now we are still going to have our primary. it is a smaller field this morning than it was yesterday. but we are going to continue to work hard in this primary. we want to do well here. and that is why i am going to ask you for your vote. because we need to win. we need to come together. eventually if we are still fighting against each other in october and september, we are not going to win. and not going to win does not, not winning does not just mean the other parties in charge. not winning means that all of these policies that have haunted us for eight years, many of them become permanent. if we lose this election, obama care is permanent. if we lose this election, the destruction of the military continues. if we lose this election, all of these unconstitutional executive orders stay in place. so we must win this election because if we lose this election, justice will be a... justice scalia will be replaced by someone who believes that the constitution is a living and breathing document that it can mean anything you want. and so we must nominate someone that can bring this party together. and that is why i am asking you for your vote because if you nominate me, i will bring this party together faster than anyone else. and it is not just enough to come together. we have to grow this party. which means we have to take our message to people that do not vote for us now. to people that have been told for over two decades that republicans and conservatives do not care about people like that. you know the story that they tell them? that democrats and big government is good for the working people. republicans only care about the rich. but we do not have anything against people that can financially success. we celebrate financial success. but we fight for the people that are trying to make it because they are the ones... they are the reason why america is special. every country in the world has rich people. and we are glad that we have rich people. we celebrate that success because they are not any. but we make this different. are the millions of people that know they are never going to be rich. they are not trying to get rich. when you become a schoolteacher, when you become a nurse, when you become a police officer or a firefighter, you know you are not going to make millions of dollars doing that job? what you want is to make enough money to be able to own a house. and retire with dignity. and having enough money to enjoy your weekends and take your family on vacation and save the center of kids to college. and live to see all of your kids grow up to have a better life than your own. that is called the american dream. that is what we are going to fight for when i am in prison. we will pay our message to people that are living the way that i grew up. because my parents never made a lot of money. my father was a bartender at a hotel. my mother was a stock clerk at kmart. she built aluminum chairs at a factory. she was a maid at a hotel in las vegas. and yet my parents, although they never made a lot of money, they were successful people because they lived in the american dream. and america, when we are in charge, is going to be a country where parents can still do for their children. but my parents did for me and your parents did for you. we will unite this party and we will grow. and when we do win this election and then we have a lot of work to do. what does it mean to be a conservative in the 21st century? first, it means we are going back and we are going to follow the constitution of the united states of america. a constitution that says that you have a constitutional right to live out the teachings of your faith in every aspect of your life. a constitution that says that you have a right according to the second amendment to protect your family, your property from criminals and terrorists and anyone who lives. and a constitution that says that the federal government is supposed to be a limited government. there is not a federal answer to every problem in this country. in fact, there is not a federal problem to most of the problems in this country. many of the problems in this country cannot even be solved by government at all. they have to be solved in our homes, in our communities, in our jobs, in our mother and the father, in our husband and wife. it is in the family where many of our answers are. and we are going to return to a government that envies the family instead of empowering government agencies or government bureaucrats. and as a state government solution, it is likely to be at the state and local level. that is why we do not need a department of education at the federal level. when i am in the white house, we are going to return to limited government and we are going to return to free enterprise. it is the only economic model in the world where you can make poor people richer and you do not have to make rich people poor. it is the only economic model in the world where you can lift everyone up without tearing anyone down. and if people have any doubt whether free enterprise works and if people have any doubt whether limited government works and walk to the blocks, because the reason why nissan north america is headquartered here is not because you raise taxes but because you lowered them. free enterprise works. and that is why we need to fix our tax codes so we can compete again and roll back regulations and balance our budget by saving social security and medicare and fully utilize all of our energy resources and repeal and replace the bomb repair once it runs. thank you all. when we have government free enterprise, the third thing we are going to do is we are going to once again keep this country safe. today the world is a dangerous place. you have a lunatic in north korea with nuclear weapons. he is a lunatic. people say, why are you calling that? well look, he is the son of a dictator which means he has never been disappointed. he has never been told no. he has never been putting time out. it is a lunatic but he has to do other weapons. the chinese government steals our inventions. they hack into our computers. they are now practicing how to blow our satellites. they are rebuilding their military. the largest military expansion in human history is what the chinese government is doing now. and they are taking over the south china sea. it is the most important shipping lane on the planet. vladimir putin is showing instability in europe and in the middle east. iran is going to get $100 million of sanctions with it. because of barack obama's deal with the iso. and they are going to use that money to build up their military. they are going to use that money to one day buy a building nuclear weapon. and radical islamic terror because that is what it is. radical islamic terror is spreading. isis is the most dangerous radical islamic group in history. they are not as the president described them just a bunch of guys on the back of a picture of truck of guns. they are the dangerous group that has affiliates in over a dozen countries that burns people alive and cages that takes little girls eight to nine years and ten years of age and oxygen is the most of the rise. and in the face of all of these threats for barack obama is cutting our military. our army will soon be the smallest it has been since the end of world war ii. our navy will soon be the smallest it has been in a century. and the air force will soon be smaller than it has ever been in our history. the average age today of an air force plane is 27 years older. which means the planes are older than the pilots. these defense touched our reckless. it is the first thing we should be spending money on at the federal level. we wore anything else. and i have high and present in the d9 exchange. we have worked under the same name. we really, i will be the only one. thank you. we are going to have a real war on terror on president. not this war is going on now but it is not working. but real, how does that work? here's how it works. the best intelligence agency in the world is going to find the terrorists. the best military in the world that we are going to rebuild is going to destroy these terrorists. and if we capture any of these terrorists alive, they are not getting the lawyer. they are not going to manhattan for a fort hearing. they are not coming to tennessee. they are going to put power on them. and we are going to take care of our veterans again when i am president. and we are going to take care of our veterans again when i am president. and we are going to take care of our veterans again when i am president. if you are better or you have a loved one serving now or in the past and the armed services of our country, would you raise your hand so we can thank you on your own. thank you. my brother is a baby. my brother's a veteran. he traveled with me to south carolina and he was a green beret in the 7th special forces, 68 to 71, this is green beret's roommate. he is 21 years old. do you need me for a crack? yes, sir. 21 years old or so. he is not here today but i always, i get to tease him now because i have the microphone and he is just going to proud. so what i need to do is some i say, that is my brother. i know what he is thinking but no, that is not my dad. that is my brother. 21 years old. well my brother, when he was in the green berets, he jumped out of the plane one day as a practice jump and he knocked out his front teeth. so every few years he has to go to the va to get a dental clinic done. and every few years he has to fight through it. they ask him, how do we know this really happened in the army? he says, well, it is the only time i jumped out of the plane. so in our own family, we have seen the issues in the va. and my state literally one out of four calls to my office is a va client. the other day in usa today, i think it was tuesday, the headline in usa today said this. calls to va's suicide hotline went to voicemail. it is not real. no one's going to be fired for that. no one's going to be held accountable for that. but i am president, they will. there were good people at the va. and they will pardon. we are not talking about that. there are good people at the va. there are good va hospitals. but if you are not doing a good job at the va when i am president of the united states, you will be fired. when i am president of the united states, our veterans will be able to take their va benefits to any hospital or any doctor that they want to go to. and by the way, i am honored that so many of our veterans when they come home, they do not stop serving. many of our veterans become police officers and firefighters. so i want to just take a moment to thank the police officers and the firefighters. and what they did for us is incredible. let me look in the teachers. i have three teachers in my family. i do not know they are here today, but i want to thank teachers. number one, because i mean it. and the number two makes that a lot easier. so here we are. every election is important. every one of the matters. but i, this one's more important and most. at the beginning of this campaign, it began in april of last year for me. i said that this election is a generation of choice. because most elections are just a choice between competing political parties. but this election is so much more. and this election, the question before you, is not just the names on the ballot. the question we must answer is what kind of country will america be in its money for centuries? we know what kind of country it is been for the last two centuries. it is been the most conceptual nation in the history of all rampant. i believe it began at our very founding. when some extraordinary men, the law happened to live at the same place at the same time in this land colony to the first crown. signed their names to the declaration of independence that was nothing short of a death of one. if your name was on that document, it meant your family, your life, your property, or all at risk. they signed their names to that document. that document reminds us that our nation was not founded on a political principle. america was founded on a spiritual principle. the principle that all men are created equally, because we are endowed by our creator with the right to life and to liberty and to pursue happiness. our rights do not come from government. our rights do not come from the constitution. our rights do not come from the law. our rights come from an all-powerful god. and the job of our government is to protect those rights. but it is disbelief that we are all equal. it is disbelief that our rights come from our creator. that set in motion a series of events that in this nation led to the greatest nation in the history of all mankind. for here we embraced individual liberty because we believe that god created man to be free. here we embrace free enterprise because we believe god created man to fulfill their dreams and their potential. here we embrace their republic because we believe that the job of our leaders is to serve the people and not the people serve the leaders. and the result is this extraordinary nation, a place where our judeo-christian values formed our society into a strong one. we became the most generous people in the history of the world. americans give more to charity than most governments do. not because the government makes us. not because you get a 60% right off on your taxes. but because we are taught by our faith, we are commanded by our faith to care for the less fortunate, to feed the hungry and clothed the naked and housed the homeless. and the result is an incredible nation. now when you are born and raised in a country like i have been, in this country, and you do not know what life was like in any other place, i believe sometimes it is easy to take for granted how special america truly is. but one of the blessings i have had is that i was raised by people that knew what life was like outside of america. and so they always taught me how special life was in america. my parents were both born on the island of cuba. they came here in 1956 to nothing. they barely spoke english. the first words my father learned in the english language was i am looking for work. my father had not gone to school past the age of nine. his mother died four days shy at the time perfectly. so he had to go work and he would never go back to school. he would work for the next 70 years because life. my mother was one of seven girls raised by disabled father in rural cuba. my mother says her and her sisters never went to bed hungry. but she sure had parents that many nights. when they came here in 1956 they did not know anyone. they had few skills. they had big dreams and not much more. and life in america was not an instant success. years later my parents admitted to me they struggled. they were discouraged. they wondered out loud. whether they had made a mistake. they even contemplated at one point going back to cuba. i thank god every night they did not. they say they persevered. and less than ten years after they came here with nothing my parents owned a home. my father was a bartender on miami beach and now a home in a safe and a stable neighborhood. years would go by and through hard work. my parents were able to retire with dignity and with security. but the greatest achievement my parents had in life was that they were able to live and able to live. they lived to see all four of their children live a life better than they are on. their life had meaning and it had purpose. their sacrifices met something. because they were in the one place on earth where if you work hard and you sacrifice not only can you achieve a better life. but you can give your kids the chance to be everything you always wanted to be but never could. and the reason why i say that is because although that is my story, that is not just my story. as americans that is our story. there are a lot of people here today. only a few of you have i ever been in person. i do not know your personal story. and yet i know this because you are americans, you like me, or just a generation or two removed from someone who made your future the purpose of their lives as well. in this country we are all just a generation or two removed from someone else. who are americans? americans are the descendants of go-getters. americans are the descendants of people that came here whether it was two centuries ago or two years ago because they refused to live in a society that told them that they could not be who they wanted to be. america is the descendants of slaves who overcame a horrifying institution to claim their stake to the american dream. america is a nation in which in our base flows the blood of people who refuse to accept the limits placed upon them by a sale and outdated society. this is who we are. this is who we have always been. and this is who we must fight to remain. what we fight for now is that america remains the kind of country where my story yours is still possible. that is what is at stake here. if we stay on the road we are on right now, we will lose that. the american dream will die. we will still be a rich country. we will still be an important one. but if we lose the american dream, we will not allow it to be a special one. because as i said before, every country has rich and connected people. but only here can millions of people that do not come from the privilege of power achieve extraordinary things. this is what makes us difficult. and this is what we must now fight to preserve. if we embrace the government, we will lose it. for in the societies where government dominates the economy, it is the same people who keep winning. i challenge you to look at these countries where the government dominates society and the economy. it is the same families and the same names and the same companies decade after decade. because big government helps the people who have already made it. big government is good for the people who get influence government. and everyone else gets left out. and so what we must fight for now is to ensure that that american dream that it does not just survive, but that it reaches more people and changes more lives than ever before. and my fellow americans, that is what we have a chance to do right now. i know the times are tough. but as americans, we have been here before. in fact, we have been here many times. you see, one of the reasons why america is so special is because for over two centuries, each generation did what they needed to do. this is not a country that ever had it easy. it was founded by declaring independence as a powerful empire in the world. this is the nation that confronted two world wars in a great depression. this is the nation that has survived the civil war. this is the nation that survived the 60s that divided us generationally over vietnam and regionally over civil rights. each generation has confronted great challenges. and each run rose up to the challenge of their time. now our moment has come. now our time has arrived. and i take inspiration from the decision our nation made 36 years ago this year. 36 years ago, i was still a young child that was only 8 years old, but i was old enough to know the things that i am going well. even as a young child, i could sense that america's optimism has had kept. i could sense that our influence in the world had declined. i could sense that our confidence in ourselves and in our people was at an all-time loan. and then the nation elected a phenomenal president in ronald reagan. and just as important as what he did, reagan influenced the whole generation by what he believed. reagan always believed that america's greatest days were always in front of us. because he recognized that while our government had big problems, our nation is not a government. america is not a government. america has a government. but america's our people. and who are the american people? they are the people that will get up tomorrow morning early to go to work. and they are raising their children, and they are volunteering in the community, and they are dominating the charity, and they are raising their families, and they are putting their kids in the right schools, and they are opening up new businesses, and they are working hard at the place that they work. that is america. our people are still a great people. we just have a bad president, and in 2016 we are going to fix that. we are going to fix that. we are going to fix it. and so in a race where you still have many choices, i am asking you here to tennessee to vote for me. if you vote for me, i will deny this party. if you vote for me, i will throw this party. if you vote for me, we will win this election. the democrats do not want to run against me, but i cannot wait to run against that. if you vote for me, you will have a president that will never shy away from strongly and firmly stating my beliefs and the traditional values that made us great. if you vote for me, you will have a president that will never be ashamed to say that all human light is worthy of the protection of our people. and if you elect me, i will be a president for all americans. even the americans who do not agree with me. even the americans who do not like me. even the americans who protest against me. even the americans who say nasty things about me on twitter. i will cut that trash out. i will cut that trash out. i will cut that trash out. i will cut that trash out. i will cut that taxes too. oh! oh! oh! oh! oh! oh! oh! oh! when i am your president, i will never pitch you against each other in order to win the selection. oh! i will never ask one group of americans to be angry at another group of americans so that i can win. oh! oh! because if you want to be president of the united states of america, you must love the american people, even the american people that do not love you back. oh! we have a lot of work yet to be done in this campaign and in the years to come. but i want to leave you with this. if you elect me president of the united states, this generation will do its part. if you elect me president of the united states, we will return to the principles that made us the greatest nation in history. and we will apply those principles to the challenges of the 21st century. and i want you to know what history will say about this generation, when we do what needs to be done. here's what history will say of us. it will say that we lived in the early years of this new century, face a difficult and rapidly changing world. and we almost got it wrong. we almost got it wrong. but then like all the americans that came before us, we remembered who we were. and we rose up to the challenges and we solved our problems and we embraced our opportunities. and when our work in this generation was done, our children became the freest and the most prosperous americans that ever lived. and our work was done. and our work was done. the american dream did not just survive. it reached more people and changed more lives than ever before. and because we did what needed to be done, the 21st century was not just as good as the 20th century. the 21st century was better. and we were the authors of a new american century. thank you very much.