welcome to the 2020 virtual candidate forum. our desire is to create informed voters by giving the plant city community an opportunity to meet every candidate on their ballot. at the greater plant city chamber of commerce, we are a connector and convener in the community of current and rising leaders. when we all work together, we are plant city strong. this event would not be possible without community involvement. we would like to thank tampa electric, friday productions, south florida baptist hospital, the hillsborough county farm bureau, and the many other generous supporters. without further ado, let us hear from this candidate. hello, my name is stephen olin-camp. i am a member of the greater plant city chamber of commerce, and i have the pleasure of serving on the government affairs committee. our committee has prepared a few questions for every candidate on the ballot, running, or a position that will represent residents of the plant city community. today, i am here with scott franklin, who is running for a u.s. house of representatives district 15. scott, will you please give us a quick introduction of yourself so our viewers can get to know you? all right, good morning. thanks, stephen. my name is scott franklin. i am running for the lakeland city, sorry, i am on the lakeland city commission, running for u.s. congress at this time. i have got three jobs going right now between my day job and campaigning and being on the city commission. i joined limerup shaw insurance in 2000. i have been the president there, became president in 2003, ceo since 2005, and we merged that company into baldwin kristen sherman partners on january 1st. we have been a best company to work for for the last four years from the florida trend and the best places to work in polk county for 13 past running years. i have been on the lakeland chamber commerce board of directors, also the board of governors, or the executive committee. i have chaired our executive committee of the lakeland economic development council. a lot of the number of different chamber type events such as the leadership lakeland leadership polk and leadership florida, i have been on the board of governors for the tampa bay partnership, and i currently serve on the board of overseasers for the florida southern school of business. the 26th year navy veteran, i graduated from the u.s. naval academy. i was a career naval aviator before coming back to lakeland to run my business. i got an mba along the way and doing that. in the 20 years that i have run, our company here in the insurance business, i have the opportunity to work with hundreds of businesses throughout the area. i develop risk management plans for them, so i understand how their business models work, the threats to their profit and help protect them. but also running my own business, i know how to make payroll, and i have known the challenges of leading the business through the hard times, through the great recession, and also growing it through the good times. i took that experience three years ago to work for the lakeland city commission, and now i would like to do that at the federal level where they seem to not be able to balance budgets. thank you, scott. so tell us, why are you running for office? well, a couple of reasons. one is as i was starting to loot you there. our federal government is out of control. they spend my and ways that none of us would ever do as business owners. and at the local level, the state level, and everywhere else, we seem to manage to balance our budgets, but the federal government cannot manage to do that. i am worried that they are mortgaging our children's future. for the first time in my life, we were always told that our children should have a better life than we have had, and we can prepare that way for them. our kids do not believe that now, and they see what we are doing in squandering their futures. they do not think necessarily the america's brightest days ahead or ahead, and i do, but i think it is time that we bring control back to washington. thank you, scott. okay, during your time in office, what do you plan to do for the plant city community? well, first and foremost, my top priority would be, particularly now during coronavirus, getting america back to work. and we have got record high unemployment, stimulus packages have helped. i think in the hindsight, when we look back over those layer, we are going to see that we wasted a lot of money. i think we need to be incentivizing people to work instead of not work. i have a lot of hope for the next round of stimulus spending that is coming out that we are going to be a little more careful on how we do that, we do not incentivize people by paying them more to stay home than it would be to get them back to work. i think people believe inherently and honest good work, hard work for honest pay and to pay them to not do that is a distance and i think it leads to unhappiness. but getting america back to work, i am a believer in small limited government low taxes. so i would like to see our tax cuts, the president's tax cuts made permanent. i would like to continue to reduce the bureaucracy in government. i am a fan of the two-for-one rule. for every piece of new bureaucracy that we label, or we start applying to businesses, we eliminate two others. we need to continue to strengthen our national defense. but more locally, from a business perspective, a high priority for me would be coming up with a significant healthcare reform that would start with a permanent repeal of obamacare. we were promised better, faster, cheaper. that is not been the case. medical costs continue to skyrocket. and as a business owner, that is frustrating. i am actually in the business where we sell health plans to companies. and there is nothing else we do in our lives that has less transparency than in the world of medical care. so i would like to bring transparency to it. i think we need to, well, any kind of reform would certainly cover pre-existing conditions. so that would be, that is a non-negotiable. but i would also like to see us develop the ability for small businesses to band together into association plans. that is been a high priority for chambers. i know i have worked with our lakeland chamber to try to do that. and we are blocked at every turn. it is interesting that as a small business owner who then went to the lakeland city commission, i found that my health insurance rates for my family, by me and being a member of the lakeland city government were about half of what i could get as a small business owner. and there is really no reason for that. there is no reason why small businesses could not band together and get that same bulk pricing that larger companies do. so that would be a high priority for me. those are all, those are just some of the things, but that would, that would get us started. but overall, i am a free trade guy. i know the president is trying to, we are trying to get china to play by the rules. so i am normally one who would not be in favor of things like tariffs, but that is predicated on the assumption that everyone's playing by the same set of rules. so i think renegotiating the nafta agreement is a right step in the right direction. but i think we need to be looking at all of our treaties and make sure they are fair to american workers, our employees here. you mentioned the virus. did it affect the virus? there will be a decrease in tax revenues. how will you adjust the budget shortages? and where will you cut and where will you prioritize? well, i would certainly start by looking at the things that are in some of these packages that we are spending now. and i would not be bailing out states and governments that that have not managed to manage their budgets successfully. like we have here in florida for those states that do not have balanced budgets, i think they need to figure out their own issues. and that means they have to declare bankruptcy before they could receive any federal help. and i would certainly do that. i think we need to take a real hard look at some of the entitlement programs that we have. long term, i will be 56 later this summer when i came into the workforce decades ago. i was told that social security would be busted and i should never count on receiving any of that. i think we need to take care of our seniors and nothing we should do would impact anyone who is currently retired or approaching retirement. but i do think we need to look very hard at folks coming into the workforce and restructure some of these long term promises. the reality is when social security was started back in the 30s, it is actually old age and survivors to my disability insurance and dependence insurance. and it was never meant for people to retire and live in another 30 years or so just off of the government doll. so i think it should have been indexed along the way to be more reflective of life expectancy. but you know that said we have got to take care of people who put their faith in the government all these years and paid into the system. we would do nothing that would affect them. but i think for young people coming into the workforce we need different kinds of plans. and i also believe more of a more of a defined contribution program than a defined benefit plan. so things like 401ks that work successfully in the business world, i would like to see that expanded on the federal level. scott, i would have selected what is your priority for your first term in office? well, if you would asked me that six months ago, i would have said other things that right now, clearly covid is not going away. i think we are going to feel the effects of that. even if we get a vaccine by the end of this year, the impact we are seeing on our economy is going to take us, i think, years potentially before we get back to the great norm that we had going into 2020. so i think efforts to get america back to work, i think we need to focus, again, i have mentioned health care before. we need to continue strengthening our national defense that is been depleted through the obama years. and i think president trump's done a good job of getting us back on the right path of that over the last four years. but i also, i think, well, let us see, defense, the tax plans, reducing our government waste that we see at every turn. those would be the first things to get us going. but i think more than anything else, the highest priority right now is going to be finding a way to reduce the spread of just government overspending and getting our people back on their feet. all right, scott, that is it for our questions. anything else that you would like the viewers to know before we go? i think when folks have an opportunity to vote in the primary, on august 18th, and then again, in november, i think we have a clear choice. if you look at the candidates and the folks, i would urge everyone to take a real hard look at people's backgrounds and their skill sets and what they bring to the table. and i do believe that of all the folks in the race, that i bring the broadest depth of experience to the table from both a leadership background with a career in the military. i know it is like to serve our country. i know it is like to lead a small business and medium-sized business through hard times and through tough times. and i have been involved in our community and have a demonstrated track record of leadership for over 20 years back here in the in the tampa bay area. so i would appreciate people, everyone getting out and vote. i know it is going to be tough to get people to the polls this time, but i think this is one of the most critical elections in our lifetime, probably the most critical. and please get out there and vote on august 18th and i would appreciate your support. thank you. all right, scott, thank you for your time. we appreciate it. thanks.