thank you. senator kennedy. thank you, mr. chairman, and thanks to all of our witnesses here today. mr. robinson, i want to follow up by trying to understand your answer to one of senator cruz's questions. this is really a question, not a suggestion. do you understand your position to be that there are two sexes, but there can be more than two genders? i would not even say, too, and we have got dr. lopez here as well, but there is also the definition of intersex. i think that often these conversations were conflating sex and gender, and i do want to affirm here that trans women are women. that is their gender. okay. but i am trying to understand, do you make a distinction between sex and gender? yes, sir. okay. explain that just, do you think there are more than two sexes? i believe that there is a definition for intersex as well that i want to acknowledge. but sex is a sign of birth. i am just trying to understand. i am thoroughly confused. so you are born, i am talking about biology, male, female, and what else? i believe that intersex is also acknowledged. you know, again, i am not a doctor here, but i cannot hear. and what is intersex? is that there is a difference between sex and gender, and i think in these conversations, we are conflating the two. well, but i want to start with sex. okay. there is male, there is female. i am going to baby's born before the baby has had time to even have a sense of self. there is male, female, and intersex. because the third- i believe that is true, but i would defer to dr. lopez as i am not a physician. okay. and how many genders are there? i think the gender is expansive, and the definitions are always growing. you know, today i can tell you i try to get people that talk about non-binary as... more than five? i think the gender is not a binary as what i am trying to say. but they are more than five genders. i am just trying to understand. are there more than five genders? well, i mean, i think that there was a time where women wearing pants did not feel like it was appropriate for their gender, and yet i am wearing pants today. are there more than five genders? are there more than five? i would not subject myself to naming how many genders there are, but i can say that you cannot explain. there is an infinite number of genders. i think depending on your culture, there are a lot of different genders that exist. and i can also say that it is a term that is evolving. if you look at young people today, they really do not lean into the binary of only woman and man. so i think that it is incumbent upon us not to legislate on this, but create space for them to explore what their identities are, what their gender identities are. let us get back to athletics. i think i understand what you are saying. there are three sexes. male, female, and inner sex. i believe that to be true, but again, i am not a physician. and there are an infinite number of genders, because gender is a mental state. gender is about expression, and i think that there are a variety of ways that you can express your gender. okay, so there is infinite number. all right, let us go back to the biology. male, female, boy girl. okay. biologically, do males have an advantage over females biologically in sports? again, i am not a physician, and i cannot speak to that. what is your real world experience? it depends. i mean, there are some people who are born male that i am faster than if i were to sprint against them, and some that i am not. some males are taller than some women, and some that are short. that a biological male has a physical advantage in sports over a biological female? not as a definitive statement. give me an example. well, no, i do not think... how many female members of the nba do you see? well, i can say that there is been this news article about men that think that they could beat serena williams in tennis, that they think that they could actually score a point on her. and it is just not the case. she is stronger than that. what is your experience being male female? both serena and venus lost to the 203rd ranked male tennis player, which they are phenoms for women. my experience, my husband, he is swam at university of kentucky as well, in terms of accolades and in terms of national ranking. i was a much better swimmer than him. he could kick my butt any day of the week without trying. okay. i just think, ms. robinson, i have tried to understand where you are coming from. i think you lose a lot of credibility when you do not concede that a biological male has physical advantages over biological female. i mean, i just think that is a proven fact. and you really hurt your credibility. i understand you want the world to be a better place i do too. and i do not think people ought to be discriminated against because of an immutable characteristic. i do not. and i think that i think everybody ought to be free to be themselves. and what you do in your bedroom or what i do in my bedroom with a consenting adult is nobody's business. but if what i do in my bedroom with a consenting adult, if i decide i want to tell somebody's child about it, then other people have rights too. and i think parents have rights. and i think biological females have rights to be able to compete fairly in sport. so i really, i really think you hurt your credibility when you refuse to acknowledge that biological males have an advantage over biological females. it kind of makes me wonder about all your testimony. thank you, mrs. mccarramon. i am sorry, go ahead. i, i, what i am trying to say is that there is not a definitive advantage in all cases. sir, i do not know if you believe that you could beat serena williams in tennis, but i probably think that that is not the case. there are not all cases where all men are physically superior to all women. and at the end of the day, in this conversation, we are not talking about that. we are talking about trans women who are in fact women who deserve to play in a gender that matches their sports who deserve all the benefits that miss gaines is talking about. and as a cisgender black woman, i can say definitively that my womanhood is not threatened by a transgender person asserting hers as well. senator herona. thank you, mr. chairman. i thank all of the person who are testifying today. for ms. robinson, do you know what?