with more on that breaking news just in, our newsroom, a judge dismissing the charges against both former fbi director james comey and new york attorney general, leticia james. the judge finding the prosecutor in those cases, lindsey holigan, was illegally appointed, meaning any actions she is taken as acting u.s. attorney were unlawful. courts and legal reporter with the hill, zach schonfeld is with me now to help me break all of this down, zach. all of this really hot off the presses. let us start at the beginning with this breaking news on the judge throwing out the charges against former fbi director james comey and leticia james, saying that, holigan is accused of lying to congress, saying that, excuse me, comey lied to congress when he testified that he never authorized fbi officials to leak information to the press. what are you learning and what has the white house said in response to this? hey, good afternoon, nick. this ruling just coming down from this judge here in just the last few minutes dismissing both these high profile prosecutions against both james comey and leticia james. both of these rulings, they are very similar. it is for the same reason, saying that the u.s. attorney in the eastern district of virginia, who is brought both of these indictments, lindsey holigan, was unlawfully appointed. so this ruling at its core really has nothing to do with the actual merits of these criminal allegations against comey and james, whether it be the lying to congress allegations against james comey or the mortgage fraud out accusations against lissusia james, they deny that, of course. but instead, this ruling is really saying that this u.s. attorney was never lawfully appointed in the first place. and so all of these actions, specifically when she went before those grand juries to seek those indictments, that all of that is invalid and that these charges all have to be dismissed. zayn, i am glad that you said that this has nothing to do with whether or not the merits of the case were valid or invalid. the judge is saying before we even go any further than that, if i am understanding you correctly, the person who brought these charges never should have been in that role. that is right. in fact, you know, another thing that has been making a lot of news in recent days, specifically about james comey's case, was a lot about what happened in those grand jury proceedings. there have been questions about, you know, the transcripts of those proceedings, whether the grand jury actually saw the final indictment that was eventually handed up to the judge. the government at one point had conceded that it was not shown, then they submitted the filing, reversing, saying that it was. but this ruling is instead totally on a different thread. in fact, it is actually even by a different judge because this, you know, issue had to dealt with lindsey halligan's appointment, it gets into a bit of a unique circumstance where they actually have to pull in a judge from a different court to adjudicate this. so this is judge cameron curie, a judge who normally would serve in south carolina and there is no pointy of former president bill clinton. is that not to get too into the weeds, but this may have even saved miss halligan any kind of retribution on her end legally because if indeed that indictment had been changed like the judge had suggested that could have had her censured or brought up on legal charges of her own. do you believe these charges will be appealed though? i think you know the justice department, although we have not heard from them quite yet, you would imagine that they are likely going to appeal this. obviously, we have seen them in all sorts of cases. usually we are talking about civil lawsuits and challenges to trump administration policies. we are talking about criminal prosecutions, so a bit of a different bucket, but still we see the trump administration never being afraid to appeal things. but certainly that is the top question right now as to whether they will appeal this ruling and start trying to get these prosecutions potentially revived. and zach byall accounts both komi and james formidable opponents to the president who are very versed in legal, legal ease and who had strong defense teams of their own. komi and his defense had planned to talk about vindictive prosecution. we did not even get to hear that far, right? what reaction are you hearing and how does this look? yeah, that is right. you know, all these other issues that we have been talking about ever since these charges were brought. you know, we did not even get to those. now those motions we expected to be decided soon, but this is really, you know, the first one out of the gate. now, i will also say the timing here was expected. the judge had indicated that they would be ruling in advance of thanksgiving, so we knew it would be coming this week. and if this ruling is allowed to stand all of that other stuff, including the vindictive prosecution motions that you mentioned, nick, you know, we would never get to. and of course, now, if the justice department does want to appeal and they win, of course, that would be the next roadblock that they have to get through. all of those motions would still have to be adjudicated. so if these prosecutions ever do get to trial, it certainly seems that there would be a long road ahead, even if they are revived someday. zach, i have got less than 36. and by doing so, do you expect any type of legal action from either james or komi back at the justice department because of what they called a vindictive prosecution? you know, they certainly may try, but at this point, you know, i think that is still a bit unclear. we have not heard from either of them vowing to do so. you know, i think in those types of lawsuits, there sometimes can be a very high bar to bring them. but certainly that is going to be one of the questions now, as these cases, at least as of now, are fizzling out.