god bless all of you for coming. it is nice to have a hot weather better than cold, but thank you for honoring our president. but more importantly, thank you for honoring the united states of america as we join this opportunity to be with president trump to kick off america 250. we are once again first in the nation, just like every four years, we are first in the nation. you know, tomorrow will be 249 years, since 56 americans signed the declaration of independence. by signing that document, they were traitors to king george iii. but they are what you and i would honor as freedom fighters. they knew at that time that king george iii was going to restrict their freedoms. could not do in the colonies, whatever other british person could do in london and the british isles. he was restricting their freedoms. and that is why they said in the declaration of independence, we are endowed by our creator with certain unadienable lights among them life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. by saying we are endowed by our creator, we get our rights and freedoms from god. we do not get them from the government. and we know that 13 years later, they wrote the constitution. the constitution does not say what our rights are except in the bell of rights, but that is just a few of the rights that were guaranteed by god. what it said was that we write this constitution to protect the american people from their government. and it still serves that purpose. and i hope that we appreciate that in america. you know, people of the left get irritated when we talk about the united states being an exceptional nation. it does not mean that we are better than any people, anyplace else, but it does mean we are an exception nation from the fact that we get our rights from god. we do not get our rights from the government. and it is the only society in 6,000 years of humankind that has ever had that relationship between the government and the american people. and what we are honoring from the next year is the preservation of that statement in the declaration of independence where a downbar crater was served in the 80th and more rights. and we are going to emphasize that for the next year and honored as we traditionally do. i would like to comment just a short period of time about the one big, beautiful bill. i was happy to stay up 27 hours to see that through to its finality. it is a bill that makes sure we do not get the biggest tax increase in the history of the country. and for all the democrats that voted against it, they were voting to have the biggest tax increase in the history of the country. its strengthens our national defense tremendously. it fights, weighed, forced, and raised, waste-fraught and abuse. now, you get tired of us using those terms. but i think we have proven through many studies that that is just exactly what happens when government is not proceeding the way it should. and i thought i would take just a minute to tell you what my contribution to the big, beautiful bill because i am chairman of the judiciary committee. and immigration comes under our responsibilities. so we are going to finish the wall. we are going to hand, we are going to add tremendously to the number of people patrolling that border. but more importantly, the number of people that are going to enforce the immigration laws interior, not just at the border. and then we are going to have build tremendous number of detention facilities. so we can keep people that have come here on the terrorist watch list, come here with criminal records, come here as human traffickers, sex traffickers, and peddling fitnel to our young people. we are going to make sure that they are walking the street. we are also going to make sure that sanctuary cities are not a haven for those types of people. so if i had to sum up what the judiciary committee did that i have the pleasure of carrying, it is going to make america safe again. i leave you with one last point that i do not think gets the attention it should not. it does not have to have any attention. but i am going to make sure as chairman of this committee by listening to whistle-blowers getting documents that have been kept from congress to the united states. i am going to make sure that everybody is exposed and the documents prove it for eight years. the eight years that the opposition was trying to put president trump in prison. what we are doing, whether we had republican or democrat administrations over my years in the united states congress, this president and his appointees to the department of justice and the fbi is giving us the first real cooperation that we should have had under both republican and democrat presence before, but it was just obfuscate and cover up and not let the truth out because it is going to be embarrassing. so we are getting some whistle-blowers their jobs back. we are releasing documents because i want everybody who had anything to do since president trump went down that golden elevator in 2015, had been trying to get him out of the presidency or when he was out of the presidency, getting into prison. we do not have to put up with that in america. president trump had not put it in america. and i want to thank president trump and his administration for helping me make this stuff more transparent and never see that it happens again. thank you.