hey, senator, how are you? i am happy to see you. you are home. glad to be able to show you around the farm. i have lived here 40 years, but i live within the four miles of the farmhouse as born in. my son, robin, operates a family farm and i have got a grandson in it, so the grandson would be the fourth generation. you have 2% of the people in the united states, growing the food for the other 98%. my hashtag cornwatch, it hashtag, so you even watch, it is my attempt to educate those 98% of the people that food does not grow in supermarkets, grows on farms. can you teach me how to shut corn? yeah, pretty easy. pull this back that way and then if you get a pull back, give it a year or a little twist. yes, you did it perfect. but you understood you did it like we did in the 1930s. right, now you have machines that do it for you, right? yes. how many years have you been in office? i have been the united states senator 43 years. six years in the house of representatives before that and then 16 years in the state legislature. well, recently you acquired and you released the 1023 form and it was heavily redacted. but you stood up and you told america what it actually said. the most horrific of the redactions deals with 17 phone calls between ukraine and oleg. and two of them were with vice president biden and 15 of them were with hunter biden. now what those phone calls say, i do not know. i do not want to make a judgment of the guild of any of the biden's. i just, my oversight is to make sure that the fbi does their job without political bias. some people have said that we need term limits. we need age limits. you look at joe biden. most of the polls are saying recently democrats are saying he is too old to run for office. what do you think? what do you say? well, it is not a 240 year history of our country with the voters making these decisions. it seems to me this is something that americans decide whether a biden ought to be reelected or some republican ought to be elected instead. and in the case of chuck grassley serving his eighth term in the united states senate, i was overwhelmingly elected by the people of iowa. the voters of iowa made a sound decision and that is what you have to go by when you have a democracy. the importance of iowa, the voters here, the caucus. so first in the country. we are proud of it. we want to keep it this way. and that is why we want everybody to come to iowa and test their political metal here. hey barbara, i have got some pictures here. i want to show ainsley. would you come over and help me explain these things? hey barbara. hi. thank you for welcoming us and to your beautiful home. well, we are glad that you are good. come. how did you meet? we met on a blind date. and then? we married eight months later. really? you have been together for so long? how many years? 69 years. 69. what is the secret? 68. no, 69. alright. we just had the 69th one. alright, oh well, we are going on 70 then. barbara, you have to tell me what happened on the way to your wedding. she was 15 minutes late for the wedding. yeah, well, but that had a flat tire. what do you do? you change the tire. you cannot help it. and of course, every day you pick them cold flat. that was the day. this is our family. five of our children. nine grandchildren. and 13 great grandchildren. wow. so you have a very special birthday. turning 90 years old. how do you feel? i do not feel any different than i did on any other birthday. except just pleased to have a life that i can live for the people of iowa and to serve christ. and i know you love ice cream. and i understand you are going to take us to the creamery down the street. and i hope you will enjoy an ice cream cone with me. i would love to. well, senator, you are going to serve ice cream today? could you believe that? i would like to have a cone or a cup. i will try a cone. which one do you think you would like? the mint chocolate chip is my favorite. i think i am going to try. that is a butter pecan, sir. well, this one's pretty good to me. oh, ok. cheers to iowa.