this is charter local edition. i am brad palmer. we are in santa cruz county. we are on our road show throughout the state of california and we are joined by jimmy panetta. he is running for the united states congress, the 20th congressional district. that seat currently helped by sam farh who has announced his retirement. we wish you the best of luck in your election. i must ask you why are you running for congress? a successful deputy district attorney. you want to move to dc? what is going on here? well, first of all, thank you. thank you for having me. i appreciate this opportunity. it is been great to meet with you and talk to you as well. look, i am not going to move to dc. this is my home. this will always be at home. let us get that straight first. i will work in dc, but this will always be my home. that is part of the reason why i want to run. this is where i am from. you have to look at what i have done and what i will continue to do. let us talk about what you have done because you have quite a track record. you have been a deputy district attorney, both in alamina and monterey county, focusing on... have you focused all time on gang intervention? no, actually, i started my career off in alamina county at that da's office. went there for about 13 years. oh, minus the year i was mobilized and deployed to have a chance to talk about. and then in 2010, i moved back to monterey to hook up the job there at the da's office and they put me right on the gang team based on my experience in oakland as a prosecutor. and in afghanistan? yeah, that is right. and then right into the gang team where i served as a gang prosecutor for about five and a half years. tell me about that because it has to be incredibly challenging, frustrating, hopefully invigorating. well, look, like i said, i was a da for over a decade up in oakland. i figured i had been there. i had done that. i get back to monterey county. my learning curve was very steep for first three years. you would not think monterey would be gang central, but selenis unfortunately is. selenis, selenis valley, part of seaside, part of marina. it is a norteño hub, a norteño criminal street gang hub, and then you have the rivals, the serenios. so you have a lot of back and forth. and what you realize is that it is different in the sense oakland gangs, they are fighting over territory to sell drugs to make money. got it. down here, you are wearing red, i am wearing blue, i hate you. so it is all about respect. and so it was a real learning process to understand why the trigger was pulled. and have you been able to work not just as a prosecutor, but as someone who is intervening before someone gets a file charged? that is a great question because that is exactly what you try to do. when it comes to us, it is too late. it is too late after the trigger is pulled to do anything in that sense. and so you try to get to young men. and i say young men because monterey county is the number one in youth homicides per capita per 100,000 in the state of california. 23 per 100,000. the california average is eight. so yes, you have to get to these young men before they pull the trigger. you can do that with such organizations like rancho cello, youth campus, which i am on the board of directors of. and you work collaboratively, public private partnerships. yes, that is correct. and that is what is necessary. i must ask you about your time in afghanistan. it is stunning to think that you made that trek around the world. it seems as if during some of the scariest years, 2003, that was really a time where a lot of people were not coming home. why did you serve decide to do that? well, look, it got to a point where i figured i should do this before it gets too late and regret not doing. it is always something i wanted to do. so i was received a direct commission from the us naval reserve in 2003. got to a point where i was wearing the uniform and i knew other people were in uniform abroad and making a lot more sacrifice than i was. so i volunteered and was mobilized and deployed with the joint special operations command. so i must ask you, sir, how assuming victory in november, how will your time in afghanistan inform you as a member of congress? it is a great question. and the fact is that i was fortunate enough to work with a special operations team, a team that basically found, fixed and eliminated high value targets. and you hear about the special, expedentuary targeting forces that are going on in the middle east right now. i understand exactly what they are doing. and so that is going to benefit me in regards to what type of special operators are going to be carrying out the mission at this point in the middle east. so it begs the question, assuming victory, do you want to be on the foreign affairs committee? the defense committee? what are you thinking? oh, look, like we started off this conversation. right. this is my home. this is who i will represent. the people here in this district on the central coast and most beautiful place. great it is. it is not the whole united states. right. in this area, agriculture is the key component. it brings in close to 10 billion a year. and therefore, number one will be my desire to be on the agricultural committee as a member of that. and for better or for worse, how do i say this? not the most popular committee and casting those versions. so presumably you should, you got to get shot as a freshman to be on that committee. is that fair? you know, i would think so, but not just because it is not popular. it may not be popular in washington, but it is popular here. right. because that is what the people, they need that. so if i may, sir, let us talk about ag because these have been tough years. the last four years with the drought have, they have been brutal. and so tell me how your, your presumed district has done and how it is doing now that we have an el nino, amen. let me tell you, the agriculture around here has been off the charts. you talk? even during the drought. okay. we have, water is an issue and it always will be an issue. we have never, we have never solved the problem. we are always going to be solving that problem. i understand. we realize that. but the fact is, you talk to these farmers. we are lucky that we have the reserves that we do in the pahero valley on the selenist valley. and so if you talk to these farmers, like i was fortunate enough to do in taking my agriculture class for the past year, one month a day, for the past nine months, you had an opportunity to sit down and speak with these farmers. they will tell you, yes, water is an issue. but the fact is the most pressing issue for them in this area with these specialty crops that take the hand, that take crops that you have to have the hand, the human hand, the human sight, the human sense to pick strawberries, raspberries, lettuce, because they have to be aesthetically pleasing. sure sure. sure. sure. for a customer, they need people to be there and to help them pick the crops. and that, and brings us to an immigration question. exactly. and presumably you will be entering congress. who knows what will happen, but the democrats probably will be in the minority. you never know. you never know. and so immigration while in california, there is bipartisan support for immigration reform throughout the rest of the country. there is not. so how do you address that immigration labor question? no, and it is unfortunate because in 2013, there was, there was the compromise that was there. they had a deal. unfortunately, the republican house leadership did not bring it forward that led to obama's executive action, which unfortunately has led now to paul ryan not doing anything. and it is not doing anything. right. exactly. it is for the us. exactly. so what i am hoping is that when there is a new administration 27 and i am 2017 and i am fortunate enough to be in that position as representing this area, hopefully the republican leadership at that time will understand the need for the type of reform that you did. the comprehensive reform that you feel as if we will see actual results in 2017 towards bona fide immigration reform. i am optimistic. and to get into the game, you have to be optimistic. and so i am hoping so. and i think it is going to be pressing and suppressing issue. and they realized i would be remiss if i did not mention your father, his name is leon panetta. and many of us know him well. he is had quite a career as a member of congress chief of staff. secretary defense helped me out. i mean a story career. and so talking about marching into washington, d.c. with your father's legacy being so bold and proud. look, let me tell you, when getting out and talking to people in this district, which i have been doing for the past five, six years and having grown up here, i hear stories all the time about the work that he and my mother, who was a volunteer district director, fair enough, what they did for them. literally people come up to me. they do not talk to me about what my father did as cia director. they talk to me about what he did as secretary to defense or to the staff. what they make sure to tell me about is what he and my mother did for them on a personal level. i heard a story yesterday. someone came up to me and said, let me tell you, your father saved my marriage. oh, my god. he is going on here. he said, yeah, he said my wife's from switzerland. and back in 1980, i remember exactly when it was back in 1980, we had to go through the state department to get help to make sure that we filled all the paperwork next to you. no, we get to the department of justice. department of justice says, no, we do not care what the state department does. you have to do this. we did not know what to do. he said, where did this happen? you will come back. those are the pineda. jimmy panetta. he is running for congress. my name is brad palmer. it is in santa cruz county. this is charter local edition.