we are beginning with president obama's new plan to fight terrorism and his call for congress to take action. tonight, two local congressional candidates talk about what they think needs to be done. action news reporter caitlin conrad has more in our top story live from monterey. dan, both the democratic and the republican candidate for the seat here on the central coast are calling for a united front in the attack against isis, but only casey lucius was available for a sit-down interview and she outlined some of the strategies she would like to see initiated. republican candidate casey lucius has been paying close attention to what is being done to stop domestic terrorism attacks and she thinks a more aggressive stance needs to be taken against isis, including the use of ground troops. absolutely, i think we should ramp up our military efforts, but we should not do it alone. i think everything the u.s. does has to be a multilateral effort, so we need to convince our allies and partners to become more engaged, but we cannot do that if we are going to be on the sidelines. lucius says an online offensive against the islamic state and economic sanctions against countries supporting the terrorists are also pieces of the strategy puzzle that are missing, along with action congress needs to take to fund the national counterterrorism center. all government agencies are under resourced, but that is an area that really deserves i think top priority. they need to have the propagabilites and the proper funding from congress. deputy district attorney jimmy panetta is also running for congress. he was not able to meet in person today because he was in trial, but did release this statement on the president's oval office of dress saying, it was important for the president to address this crisis facing the american people. what is critical now is the american people are unified behind the effort to defeat isis. it is not a crisis that can be dealt with from fear, but from strength. the other thing that casey lucius wants to see congress do is to reinstate wits, the worldwide incident tracking system. it was shut down in 2012. what it does is it gives the u.s. government a platform to see all of the incidents happening around the world and get live updates on them. dan. all right. thank you very much, caitlin. lucius also says more needs to be done to reassure americans that isis can and will be defeated, including hearing it from our representatives. more of our commitment 2016 coverage now, assemblyman luis alayjo has announced he is seeking a seat on the monterey county board of supervaces. before being elected to the assembly, he served as mayor in watsonville. that is in santa cruz county. alayjo tells action news he moved to salinas in november in order to run for the district one seat in monterey county. for the past five years, his assembly district has included about half of monterey county. his run for supervisor will mean he will take on incumbent fernando armenta, who has held that district one seat for 15 years. the current incumbent is not delivering for the residents of district one. i looked at what has been accomplished in the supervisorial district and i think the voters deserve better. my message to the voters in this community, do you want somebody with good, solid experience or do you want somebody that is going to be here today and gone tomorrow? luis alayjo's wife, carina servantes alayjo will be sworn in tomorrow as pro tem mayor in watsonville. she says she will stay in watsonville through her term that ends in december of next year and while she is running to replace her husband in the assembly. we have also learned alayjo has formed a campaign committee for a 2018 state senate run. if he is successful, he would replace anthony canella, who is not eligible because he is