good evening, dan aaron. secretary leon panetta knows the clinton's well. he worked in built president bill clinton's administration and he is been working with secretary hillary clinton for 25 years. he says yesterday was a disappointing loss for democrats, but he is still hopeful for the future in america. leon panetta did not hide his disappointment one day, but the former secretary of defense said he is looking toward the future. panetta says america is facing a big question mark. what president trump did we elect? the one who wants to build a wall or the one who asked voters to come together on election night? it is time for us to come together as one united people. you know, i have never thought of him as really a republican or a democrat. and he could find a place where he could build a coalition between republicans and democrats that might just be able to govern. there is that potential. secretary panetta says he sees two major issues that will face president elect trump upon his arrival in washington. gridlock in dc and providing not just the country but the world with leadership during these dangerous times. he is going to have to provide a world leadership. he is going to have to listen to people like a secretary clinton and others within his own party who represent what i believe is responsible leadership when it comes to our national security. he is going to have to listen to him. panetta says he spent 50 years serving the public and have called upon to provide advice to president trump. he will because he says there is no question now is the time for the country to come together. i believe that that is our best hope for america is having people no matter how angry or frustrated or divided we may have been during this campaign to realize that the only way this country survives in the future is by all of us coming together and supporting those we elect. secretary panetta says he believes in the constitution in a smooth transition from one government to the next and he hopes that is what happens in the next 10 weeks. dan, aaron. all right. thank you, caitlin. thank you, caitlin. our interview with secretary panetta on our website, kspw.com. meantime the panetta legacy continues. panetta's son newly elected congressman jimmy panetta one last night in a landslide victory defeating casey lucius. he spoke with us about working with president-elect trump and a republican congress. it is similar to my time as a prosecutor in the sense that every day i go into court i do with defense attorneys. they want the exact opposite thing i do. at 95 percent of the time we come up with a deal and that is what it is about. in washington dc it is about relationships. you talk to congressman sam farh. he will tell you that even though he was in the minority most of his time and his 23 years the reason he was able to get things done is because he was able to have relationships not just with democrats and republicans.