washington, d.c. – today, u.s. senator marsha blackburn released the following statement announcing the u.s. air force has selected mcghee tyson air national guard (ang) base outside of knoxville, tennessee, as the seventh main operating base for the kc-46 pegasus. senator blackburn spearheaded the push for the u.s. air force to select mcghee tyson ang base and the 134 th air refueling wing to host the next generation kc-46 pegasus refueler. she led the entire tennessee congressional delegation in sending multiple letters urging senior u.s. air force and u.s. department of war officials to advocate for this outcome. “mcgee tyson air national guard base has a long, distinguished record of excellence, and today’s announcement reaffirms what we’ve known all along,” said senator blackburn. “designating mcghee tyson as a main operating base for the kc-46 pegasus will strengthen our national security by providing rapid access to key operational areas at home and abroad while supporting jobs for tennesseans. after two years of sustained advocacy, i’m pleased to see this decision come to fruition and appreciate senator hagerty, representative burchett, representative desjarlais, and the entire tennessee delegation for their partnership on this effort. i look forward to watching our airmen of the 134th air refueling wing continue their outstanding service to our nation.” click here to download this photo of senator blackburn with airmen of tennessee’s 134 th air refueling wing. background the kc-46 pegasus is the u.s. air force’s newest aerial refueling aircraft, designed to replace the kc-135 stratotanker, which first entered service in 1957. kc-46 pegasus offers advanced boom and drogue refueling, secure communications, defensive systems, and support for cargo, passengers, and aeromedical evacuation. its expanded range and modern systems enable the air force to meet mission demands in today’s complex global environment. mcghee tyson ang base boasts over 68 years of volunteer excellence and service to the air force. the unit has received a remarkable 16 air force outstanding unit awards and is one of the most decorated air refueling units in air force history. securing kc-46 pegasus aircraft for mcghee tyson ang base will preserve over 1,500 jobs and $203 million annually for decades to come.