washington, d.c. – today on the senate floor, u.s. senator marsha blackburn (r-tenn.) urged her colleagues to support her resolution recognizing the incredible success already achieved by president trump’s memphis safe task force. following senator blackburn’s remarks, senate democrats blocked the resolution from passing, objecting to the arrest of nearly 2,900 criminals, including sex offenders and murders, the rescue of 116 missing children, and the seizure of 470 illegal firearms. click here to download senator blackburn’s resolution. click here to download senator blackburn’s remarks on the senate floor, and click here to download her response to senate democrats blocking the resolution. remarks as delivered blackburn calls on colleagues to recognize historic success of memphis safe task force by passing her resolution “under the president’s leadership, our federal law enforcement agencies are focused on their core purpose, enforcing the rule of law and fighting crime. “now, when we talk about fighting crime in tennessee, we look at memphis. last year, the city recorded the highest crime rate in the country, and, for years, memphians have demanded action to address the crime crisis. “now, president trump is delivering it with the memphis safe task force. by coordinating efforts between more than a dozen federal and state agencies, including the memphis police department, tennessee national guard, fbi, justice department, u.s. marshals, the task force is delivering incredible results. “in just after a month of operations, authorities have made more than 2,800 arrests, including 164 warrant arrests for aggravated assault, 185 for domestic violence, 83 for narcotics, 34 for robbery, 22 for sexual assault, 25 for homicide. the task force has also located more than 110 missing children. “in many ways, the memphis safe task force is serving as a national model for president trump’s broader mission to reduce violent crime across the country. “that is why i am asking unanimous consent that the senate will proceed to consideration of s. res. 505, which is at the desk, further that the resolution be agreed to, the preamble be agreed to, and the motions to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no intervening action or debate.” blackburn slams senate democrats for refusing to acknowledge the success of memphis safe task force “since the start of the task force, overall violent crime rates have fallen 46% when compared to the same period last year. and homicides are down 50%. carjackings and sexual assaults are down 60%. “so, when my colleague objects to this, he is objecting to what the good people of memphis in this fabulous, iconic city are seeing, the results that they are seeing. “they want memphis to be the safest city in the country. not the most violent. “so, they have objected to the arrest of nearly 2,900 criminals in the last 50 days, including sex offenders, murderers, and other violent criminals. “they have objected to the rescue of 116 missing children. 116 children that have been recovered. “they have objected to over 300 known gang members being apprehended. “and they have objected to the seizure of 470 illegal firearms. “we are going to continue to the work to make certain that memphis is the safest city in the united states.”