washington, d.c. – today, u.s. senators marsha blackburn (r-tenn.) and cynthia lummis (r-wyo.) introduced the protecting american farmland act , which would put an end to green new deal subsidies for solar projects on prime farmland. this legislation would codify president trump and u.s. department of agriculture (usda) secretary brooke rollins’ directive banning federal funds for solar projects on prime farmland. “tennessee’s farmland is critical to america’s food supply, and the federal government should not be endorsing green new scam projects that subsidize ruining fertile american farmland by building solar panels,” said senator blackburn . “the protecting american farmland act would ensure not one more federal dollar funds the destruction of productive farmland.” “locking up prime farming and ranching land for solar panels threatens america’s long-term food supply and wastes millions in taxpayer dollars on green new scam projects that do nothing to advance american prosperity,” said senator lummis. “the federal government should not bankroll failed climate-alarmist schemes, and i’m proud to codify president trump and secretary rollins’ ban on funding them.” u.s. representative dave taylor (r-ohio) led the introduction in the house of representatives: “our nation must be energy independent, but it shouldn’t come at the cost of feeding our families. america has been blessed with the best farmland in the world, and the federal government should not incentivize it being taken out of production,” said representative taylor. “with nearly 50% of farmland expected to transfer hands in the next two decades, congress must ensure the next generation has access to it. i am proud to champion this bill with senator blackburn to ensure america’s food security for decades to come.” background tennessee has lost over 1.2 million acres of farmland within the last 30 years and is expected to lose 2 million acres by 2027. since 2012, solar panels on farmland nationwide have increased by nearly 50%. government-subsidized solar farms have increased farmland costs and reduced availability, making it harder for farmers to access land. this threatens long-term agricultural production by diverting prime farmland away from food and fiber crops. if the shift continues, it could pose serious challenges for rural communities and food security. on august 18, 2025, secretary rollins announced the department will no longer use taxpayer dollars to fund solar panels on productive farmland. the decision addresses concerns that subsidized solar projects have reduced farmland availability and driven up costs for producers. this policy change is intended to protect agricultural land for farming and food production. the protecting american farmland act the protecting american farmland act would codify secretary rollins’ directive by prohibiting the head of a federal agency from using federal funds—including tax credits, loans, and grants—for solar projects on prime farmland. there would be no impact on private property rights, as individuals would still be free to install solar panels on their land; however, the government would no longer provide incentives for it. endorsements the protecting american farmland act is endorsed by the tennessee farm bureau: “while this organization does believe new energy resources are important, even more so, tennessee farm bureau was created to protect the farmer’s way of life and that includes ensuring long-term availability of land for food and fiber production. we believe placement of new energy sources should prioritize lands not suitable for production agriculture, which is why our policy aligns with the protecting american farmland act and why we’re proud to support this legislation,” said tennessee farm bureau president eric mayberry. click here for bill text.