skip to content senator cotton facebook senator cotton twitter senator cotton youtube news press releases november 07, 2025 arkansas delegation to greer: save american timber exports for immediate release contact: patrick mccann (202) 224-2353 november 7, 2025 arkansas delegation to greer: save american timber exports washington, d.c. — senators tom cotton (r-arkansas), john boozman (r-arkansas), and congressmen rick crawford (arkansas-01), french hill (arkansas-02), steve womack (arkansas-03), and bruce westerman (arkansas-04) yesterday sent a letter to united states trade representative jamieson greer urging a delay in the implementation of the us-eu trade deal until the eu’s deforestation-free supply chain regulation is substantially reformed. this regulation jeopardizes u.s. timber exports and threatens american forest product workers, including 23,000 workers in arkansas. in part, the lawmakers wrote: “ we write regarding the eu's deforestation-free supply chains regulation 2023/1115 (eudr) and urge you delay the implementation of the us-eu trade deal until this regulation is substantially reformed. despite the european commission's october 21st statement, which recognizes the negligible risk of us timber production to global deforestation, the eu has made no significant reform to the regulation and is speeding up the timeline for implementation. this action by the european council jeopardizes $3.5 billion in u.s. exports and threatens 900,000 american forest products workers, including 23,000 workers in arkansas.” full text of the letter may be found here and below. november 6, 2025 the honorable jamieson greer united states trade representative 600 17th street nw washington, dc 20508 dear ambassador greer, we write regarding the eu's deforestation-free supply chains regulation 2023/1115 (eudr) and urge you delay the implementation of the us-eu trade deal until this regulation is substantially reformed. despite the european commission's october 21st statement, which recognizes the negligible risk of us timber production to global deforestation, the eu has made no significant reform to the regulation and is speeding up the timeline for implementation. this action by the european council jeopardizes $3.5 billion in u.s. exports and threatens 900,000 american forest products workers, including 23,000 workers in arkansas. as you know, the core issues remain unaddressed. which is why implementation of our trade framework with the eu must be predicated on substantial reforms to the regulation, including: recognize the u.s. as the lowest possible risk for deforestation with proportional requirements. ensure that any eudr simplification efforts, whether through commission proposals, guidance documents, or faqs, are equally applied to both eu and us operators and traders ensure adequate implementation time given the ongoing legislative process. we cannot accept arbitrary burdens on america's most sustainable industries. unless addressed, the eu risks losing its vital trading relationship with u.s. forest product producers. i look forward to working with you on this critical issue. sincerely, tom cotton united states senator ### previous article next article nav-mobile-modal search-mobile-modal