skip to content senator cotton facebook senator cotton twitter senator cotton youtube news speeches april 29, 2025 cotton supports warren stephens’ confirmation as ambassador to the united kingdom senator cotton: today, i urge my colleagues to confirm warren stephens to be our next united states ambassador to the united kingdom. president trump could not have chosen a more well-qualified or well-suited person to lead the special relationship between our two nations. warren stephens is a family man, businessman, philanthropist, and patriot who is a pillar of his community and his family-owned financial firm, stephens inc. founded on a handshake by his father, jack, and his uncle witt, warren became president and ceo of stephens when he was only 29 years old. in the four decades since, warren has built a global presence for stephens, including in london, where he has spent considerable amounts of time. warren’s signature style of cordial, interpersonal, and dedicated leadership won him friends across america and the atlantic, and of course, in his home state of arkansas. for many years, warren and his wife, harriet, have also served their arkansas community with their time, talents, and generosity. they led a major, multi-year fundraising campaign that transformed the arkansas arts center into the arkansas museum of fine arts. because of their tireless efforts and dynamic vision, the museum is now a place for neighbors, friends, and families to gather, learn, and enjoy amazing works of art. warren is also an active advocate for young generations of american students and athletes. warren generously supports numerous universities and schools, including his alma mater, washington and lee, and the episcopal collegiate school in little rock. additionally, he is the chairman and founder of the jackson t. stephens cup, which showcases collegiate golfers from ncaa division i schools, historically black colleges and universities, and the united states service academies on the nation’s preeminent golf courses. i’ve had the privilege to know warren and his family for a long time. and i can tell you, that warren has always wanted to serve his country. after decades of serving others in our arkansas community, warren now has answered the call to serve our country as the next united states ambassador to the united kingdom. he is the right person to lead our strong, special relationship with the united kingdom, i am pleased to support his nomination. i urge all my colleagues to confirm warren, so that he can go get to work on this critical job. thank you, mr. president. previous article next article nav-mobile-modal search-mobile-modal