skip to content senator cotton facebook senator cotton twitter senator cotton youtube news speeches november 19, 2025 cotton supports david clay fowlkes nomination to be judge for the western district of arkansas thank you, chairman grassley, senator durbin, and members of the judiciary committee. good morning. i’m pleased to join senator boozman today to introduce a civil servant and a fellow arkansan, mr. david “clay” fowlkes. i’d first like to thank clay for his many years of public service and for agreeing to continue to this service as the president’s nominee to be a united states district judge for the western district of arkansas. i’d also like to thank his family who are joining him here today and thank them for their support and encouragement throughout this process. as an accomplished prosecutor with experience handling cases ranging from misdemeanors to murders, clay has a lengthy track record that underscores his respect for the rule of law. upon graduating from the university of arkansas school of law and after serving in the benton county prosecuting attorney’s office, he began working at the united states attorney’s office in the western district. clay has spent nearly two decades in this u.s. attorney’s office, serving as the assistant u.s. attorney, the criminal chief, and now as the u.s. attorney for the western district. under his leadership, the office has prioritized safety and law enforcement. specifically, clay has started a response team alongside federal and state agents to curb fentanyl distribution, investigate every drug-poisoning death, and hold drug dealers accountable. in addition to his efforts to crack down on illicit drug trafficking, clay has also placed special emphasis on keeping kids safe and allowing them to live their childhoods to the fullest. thanks to his leadership and efforts, his office has prosecuted more than three times the national average of child abuse and exploitation cases. clay has also been recognized with numerous awards for his accomplishments throughout his career. these include the hope coalition excellence in law enforcement award and a recognition from the dea for outstanding efforts in drug trafficking prosecutions. again, i’d like to thank him for his many years of working to get criminals off the streets and keep arkansas communities safe. i strongly support his nomination to be the next united states district judge for the western district of arkansas, and i encourage my colleagues to do the same. thank you. previous article nav-mobile-modal search-mobile-modal