skip to content senator cotton facebook senator cotton twitter senator cotton youtube news speeches april 09, 2025 cotton supports mike huckabee’s confirmation as ambassador to israel for immediate release contact: caroline tabler or patrick mccann (202) 224-2353 april 9, 2025 cotton supports mike huckabee’s confirmation as ambassador to israel click here to view senator cotton’s floor speech. washington, d.c. — senator tom cotton (r-arkansas) today spoke on the senate floor prior to the vote confirming mike huckabee as ambassador to israel. senator cotton’s floor speech may be found here and below. senator cotton: thank you, mr. president. today i urge my senate colleagues to confirm governor mike huckabee's nomination to be the next united states ambassador to israel. i’ve had the privilege of knowing mike, his wife, janet, and his children, john mark, david, and sarah, for many years. mike’s exemplary character, steadfast faith, and lifetime of servant leadership make him the right choice to represent the president in israel, particularly at this critical moment. a friend, patriot, and fellow arkansan, mike graduated from ouachita baptist university with a degree in religion before attending southwestern baptist theological seminary. as minister at immanuel baptist church in pine bluff, and later, pastor at beech street baptist church in texarkana, mike led congregations towards christ-centered lives of faith, service, and charity. throughout his time in ministry and later, as president of the arkansas baptist state convention, mike encouraged others to grow in their faith by dedicating himself to spreading the good news of the gospel to all. for some unknown and largely inexplicable reason, mike then left the pulpit and entered politics. mysterious are the ways of the lord, indeed. as governor of arkansas for more than a decade, mike led the natural state toward a stronger and more prosperous future. by building coalitions and gathering support from both sides of the aisle, governor huckabee cut taxes, created jobs, improved infrastructure, reformed education, and improved healthcare for all arkansans. mike was a solution-oriented, pragmatic leader who left a lasting legacy for generations of arkansans and their families. word on the street is he even played some small part in inspiring our current governor into public service. now, as the united states ambassador to israel, mike will lead and strengthen our important diplomatic relationship with israel with courage and conviction. upon selecting mike for this critical role, president trump said, “mike will work tirelessly to bring about peace in the middle east.” i couldn’t agree more. mike has been a lifelong friend of israel and an ardent supporter and defender of israel’s right to exist. in 1973, mike made his first trip to israel as a recent high school graduate. the experience of visiting the biblical sites at the center of history had such a profound impact on the 17-year-old mike huckabee that he would go on to lead tens of thousands of people on similarly life-changing visits. over the course of approximately 100 trips since 1981, mike developed deep friendships with the people of israel – jewish, muslim, and christian alike. mike spent his career leading fellow christians on journeys of faith, arkansans toward a brighter future, and pilgrims on voyages of discovery. i am confident that he will lead the united states’ relationship with israel on a path toward peace and prosperity for both of our peoples. i urge my senate colleagues to support his nomination and approve his nomination swiftly. thank you. ### previous article next article nav-mobile-modal search-mobile-modal