skip to content senator cotton facebook senator cotton twitter senator cotton youtube news speeches april 01, 2025 cotton introduces warren stephens during sfrc confirmation hearing for ambassador to united kingdom thank you, chairman risch, senator shaheen, and members of the senate foreign relations committee. good morning. i’m honored to introduce today a remarkable family man, businessman, philanthropist, patriot, and, not least, my friend and fellow arkansan, warren stephens. i’ve known warren and his family for many years. i’d like to acknowledge his wife, harriet, and his children, miles, john, and laura and their spouses, for their support during his confirmation process. along with his family and many other arkansans who have the privilege to know warren, i’m pleased to offer my full support for his nomination to serve as the next u.s. ambassador to the united kingdom. for centuries, the united states and the united kingdom have enjoyed what prime minister winston churchill originally termed a “special relationship.” this friendship—forged on the frontlines of two world wars and on the side of freedom during the cold war—is rooted in our two nations’ shared history, culture, and democratic ethos. our 240-year diplomatic relationship is a bastion for freedom and peace worldwide. warren is very well suited to deepen and strengthen the bonds with one of our best and oldest allies. inspired by the example of his father, who graduated from the naval academy, warren has long aspired to serve his country full-time. i’m pleased that president trump nominated him and that warren was able to answer the call. this commitment to service has guided warren throughout his life and his career. at 29, he became president and ceo of stephens inc., a relationship-based, family-owned financial firm that started with a handshake between his father, jack, and his uncle, witt. since succeeding his father in 1986, warren dedicated himself to building up stephens in the united states and abroad, including in london, where he has spent considerable time. as the head of stephens inc., warren has dedicated nearly four decades to strengthening business relationships throughout the united states and across the atlantic while simultaneously forging relationships through service to his community. in recent years, warren and harriet spearheaded a massive, multi-year fundraising campaign to transform the arkansas arts center into the arkansas museum of fine arts. the museum now hosts a 14,000-piece permanent collection and features artists from arkansas and across the united states. thanks to warren and harriet’s vision, the museum has become the heart of its community—a place where children and students come to learn, where neighbors and friends gather, and where all those who love art can explore their creativity. warren is also the chairman and founder of the jackson t. stephens cup, named in honor of his late father. launched in 2021, the jts cup showcases collegiate golfers from ncaa division i schools, historically black colleges and universities, and the united states service academies on the nation’s preeminent golf courses. in addition to student-athletes, warren actively supports numerous universities, including his alma mater, washington and lee. his dedication to and support for education also extends to the episcopal collegiate school in little rock, where he serves as chair of the school’s foundation board. time and time again, warren has answered the call to serve others. and now, he has answered the call to serve his country in a critical role at a critical time. warren has spent a lifetime building and fostering strong relationships with his family, his clients, and his community. i think he is exactly the person america needs to lead our strong, special relationship with the united kingdom as our next ambassador of the united states to the court of st. james’s. thank you all, and i urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting warren’s nomination. ### previous article next article nav-mobile-modal search-mobile-modal