skip to content home open search close search news | press releases thursday, november 13, 2025 sen. banks urges army to approve renovations to the arlington chaplains memorials to honor all fallen military chaplains washington, d.c, – last week, senator jim banks (r-ind.) sent a letter to secretary of the army daniel driscoll urging the department of the army to approve updates to the protestant and catholic chaplains memorials on arlington national cemetery’s chaplains hill. these updates would ensure that fallen chaplains are honored for their service and sacrifice. chris motz, senior counsel for first liberty institute: “our military chaplains may not carry weapons, but they serve and sacrifice nonetheless. and for those who paid the ultimate sacrifice, memorializing them on arlington national cemetery’s hallowed ground is the very least we can do. we are grateful for senator banks’ leadership on this issue.” dan wiley, national commander of the american legion: “on behalf of our 1.5 million members, the american legion strongly urges the immediate addition of the names of 84 war-time chaplains killed in action to the chaplains memorial at arlington national cemetery. the delay of these additions fails to honor the sacrifices of fallen chaplains who paid the ultimate sacrifice in defense of the nation. the american legion remains committed to advocating for proper recognition of our nations heroes and we thank senator banks for his work on this issue.” in part, the letter reads: “military chaplains have served america’s armed forces in the barracks and on the battlefield for over 250 years. they offer strength, comfort, and hope for the men and women putting their lives on the line to defend our nation. their steadfast devotion has supported our servicemembers in living their faith even in the most dangerous circumstances. i know this administration strongly supports religious liberty and recognizes the vital work of military chaplains. president trump established the white house faith office to expand partnerships with religious organizations and ensure all executive agencies defend the free exercise of religion. under secretary hegseth’s leadership, the department of war has reaffirmed its commitment to religious expression through clearer guidance for commanders.” click here to see the full letter or see text below: dear secretary driscoll: i encourage you to approve the updating of the protestant and catholic chaplains memorials on arlington national cemetery’s chaplains hill. as you know, congress authorized the national conference on ministry to the armed forces (ncmaf) to do so in the fiscal year 2022 national defense authorization act (ndaa) at no cost to the government, subject to the secretary of the army’s approval. my understanding is ncmaf is ready and willing to add names to the monuments and has raised the necessary funding to do so. chaplains hill, in section 2 of arlington national cemetery, contains four memorials inscribed with the names of military chaplains who died in service. the memorials are lasting tributes honoring their legacy. while the world war i and jewish chaplains monuments are up to date, the catholic and protestant chaplains monuments are incomplete. specifically, the protestant chaplains memorial has not been updated since its dedication in 1981 and only includes the names of chaplains who served during world war i and world war ii. that means eligible protestant chaplains who served in korea, vietnam, the global war on terrorism and other wars have not been recognized. additionally, the catholic chaplains memorial is missing the name of one eligible catholic priest, who died in service from injuries suffered during the iraq war. the office of the chief of chaplains in each service branch has affirmed the names of the chaplains who are eligible for inclusion, as the law requires. military chaplains have served america’s armed forces in the barracks and on the battlefield for over 250 years. they offer strength, comfort, and hope for the men and women putting their lives on the line to defend our nation. their steadfast devotion has supported our servicemembers in living their faith even in the most dangerous circumstances. i know this administration strongly supports religious liberty and recognizes the vital work of military chaplains. president trump established the white house faith office to expand partnerships with religious organizations and ensure all executive agencies defend the free exercise of religion. under secretary hegseth’s leadership, the department of war has reaffirmed its commitment to religious expression through clearer guidance for commanders. it is time to honor every fallen chaplain. i urge you to move forward with renovating the chaplains hill monuments so they are all remembered with the dignity and gratitude they deserve. thank you for your attention to this important matter. ### print email share share previous article next article