two of our nation's best college service. our u.s. center and support secretary of state of the interior, ken salazar. who was nominated by the grand salazar for an undergraduate faculty? i was fortunate to be the head of the editorial mother, emma. emma salazar gave me a firm lesson in which we called him a return when a candidate for a promise gives a blessing from emma salazar. you generally win. that made you a firm support. i made for all your support, all the work you have all been doing. i am also grateful that you wish to be well. my name is colorado. we make our own money. it is worth remembering. four years ago, we faced a short fall about a billion dollars in the state budget we were ranked 40th in nations for john lov. it was a bunch of cooperation in the capital. now our new budget has to reserve fund for maybe 8.6 million. we have got up to 40th, the fourth of john lov. we took the goal. wow. 20th and 20th of the second of the thousand, 21th of the four point seven percent. this is where it is 35th and second in months of john lov. it is just almost 20 years. we have to $100 to see my approach inside of this magazine. as number one fastest-growing economy in america. great. thank you very much. i am so happy to be working with the government. as such in the face of so much adversity, we have a thorough little 13, federally-declared disasters. social compliance and wildfires, drought disasters, tragedy, shootings. we pulled together, we have rolled up our sleeves. we have got it done. after the floods of september 25th, 2013, the crops had opened on bridges roads to get the moment. so people could get back to the north dakota first-goer winter and we did not. and the federal government shut down and stayed in colorado and not. we will be happy for them. i am happy for them. we have all been standing by our step-in, we have kept it open so that the businesses and assets market might have to have a chance. and they need a chance and they are back. you know, one of my most, my strongest and most enduring memories of the floods was the climate and those areas were most affected. and other nature had really delivered, more robust roads, bridges were broken. it looked as if a whole chunk of the state was broken into pieces and the literal sense really was. and then it took a closer look and it seemed really what was happening. people were coming together, colorado was riding away to go around and come across to embrace one another, to help one another to let the hand. for me, i think for all of us, that was a reminder of how we have been able to move colorado's, where we were four years ago, to where we are now. right? this is the colorado way. it is coming together to solve problems. now we have the economic momentum, but there is a lot more to do. ultimately, here's the thing. colorado can only be just full potential, when every county in this state is reaching its full potential. together we can build on what we have achieved. together we will continue to move colorado up, but to keep that momentum going, we need to fill out our mouths and take them in. right? i am going to have to bring a prop. i have to build out the stock. right after this battle, we are going to go draw for our mouths. we need you to do the same. we need to get your friends in the same. i do not want to sit on our kitchen tables for a while. the table is wide in front door. we need those mouths, the mark down, back in the head, and the mouth, two steps in the middle. there is a group of around, a couple of young people who are in the neighborhood myself. but then i got the same ball, you can get your wheelchair, a touchdown, all of your speed. but you do not understand that you are more than, it is that, i am not a real white brother. i am so glad i am not doing it. i want to give such a thanks to one of the great residents of the american history of england. come on in. i want to give such a thanks to one of the great residents of the american history of england. he is one of the greatest parker. he put green people together, creating consensus at the top of his priority. he understands that value of our flag and work and the way we approach things at this day, work together and accomplish what? so many things have seemed impossible. something would say, you know, politically it must. and whether it is bringing together the environmental community with the audience, it is interesting to get the first of that thing in regulation to the entire united states. the highest air and follow standards in many state areas. yeah. woo! how do you combine lines to get difficult balance or solve the balance? to make sure that we have some elaborate process to provide a fair solution to our issues rather than just fighting back on it. whether someone, if you step back on your homeless, have any great bad to your domestic and your government collaboration? i will tell you one more step. you understand collaboration as well as anyone i have ever worked with in my life. i understand time, use two seconds to move all around a lot. i cannot do it wrong. woo! woo! you are not an easy one. andrew romeroff is a little bit to the social justice, civil rights, and to work with anyone and everyone. it is necessary to see those goals. what is it that once a problem is identified and worked with everybody? anybody, everyone, to make sure it gets solved. i think if you look at the people in this state and on the great track that we have been with together about the more modern problems, no one stands any higher than andrew. it is why, great honor to introduce andrew romeroff and starrer. thank you very much. thank you very much. thank you.