[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 6 (Monday, January 11, 2016)]
[House]
[Page H225]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
RECOGNIZING UNIFI MANUFACTURING, INCORPORATED FOR ITS COMMITMENT TO
RECYCLING
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. Foxx) for 5 minutes.
Ms. FOXX. Mr. Speaker, today, I rise to commend Unifi Manufacturing,
Incorporated for its commitment to recycling.
Headquartered in Greensboro, Unifi is a leading producer and
processor of multifilament polyester and nylon textured yarns. They
provide innovative, global textile solutions and unique branded yarns
for customers at every level of the supply chain.
Unifi employs about 950 people in North Carolina's Fifth District at
its Repreve Recycling Center in Yadkinville. The company is currently
constructing an 85,000-square-foot expansion that will more than double
the size of the facility.
Repreve is polyester yarn made from chips that come mainly from
recycled plastic bottles and industrial fiber waste. These
environmentally friendly yarns have been used in products for customers
that include Ford, The North Face, Nike, Haggar, Quiksilver, Volcom,
and Patagonia. For example, a classic fit casual dress pant by Haggar
features seven recycled bottles. Seat covers in a Ford F-150 truck
contain 16 recycled bottles.
Unifi is currently converting about 42 million pounds of recycled
products a year into chips at its Yadkinville facility. That includes
31 million pounds of post-consumer plastic bottles and 11 million
pounds of post-industrial fiber and fabric waste. Once the expansion is
complete, it will recycle 72 million pounds annually.
At current production levels, the Yadkinville center accounts
annually for the conversion of 900 million recycled plastic bottles and
saves the equivalent of 16 million gallons of gasoline that would be
required to make new polyester and nylon.
Last spring, Unifi also opened a 1-megawatt solar farm onsite in
Yadkinville. The solar farm is projected to provide about 10 percent of
the energy needed to run the recycling center.
Additionally, Unifi is expanding the Repreve brand through its 60
percent interest in Repreve Renewables, a biomass feedstock company
that focuses on the direct sales of Freedom Giant Miscanthus to
farmers. Some analysts believe this type of grass is extremely
efficient in converting sunlight to biomass energy. It also produces
more fuel than any other biofuel source.
Repreve Renewables has had significant commercial success with
Thrivez, its poultry bedding brand. Thrivez regrows annually without
replanting, reducing soil erosion, improving water quality, and
minimizing water, herbicide, and fertilizer needs.
Unifi has been profitable for 5 consecutive years, and Repreve has
expanded from two main apparel customers in 2007 to 32 in 2015. I
commend Unifi for achieving economic success through sustainability.
____________________