we are there to get. we are safer to get. and we are more prosperous to be more together. so let me hear it. are we stronger? we are stronger. and are we better? we are better. there is more prosperous. we are better to be safer. how we got to win this election? we are better. we are better. we are better. we are better. we are better. we are gonna have to speak about together. i would represent a different one. i do not think i can get a better one. i do not think i can get a better one. but it is a little lump of that better. and i continue with silly things in the december when it is gonna be a sad day for nevada. i am a new-school company. i could use what else to kill back there. i have got just the first thing that mine to do. i am a new-school company. i am a new-school company. i am a new-school company. i am a new-school company. i am a new-school company. i am a new-school company. please stand up to the gay fans. she locked up the sexual predators. and now she is up against the co-pure. she never let us down as a turning general. and now we can let her down and her fight to be the power of a senator. so give it up, give it up for tammy. come on, come on, come on. come on, come on, come on, come on. come on, come on, come on. come on, come on, come on. come on, come on, come on. this is really up for tammy and her fight to be the power of a senator. come on, come on, come on, come on. come on, come on, come on, come on. come on, come on, come on, come on. well, i know that all of you, i am ready to put the elevator to white house. okay. there is no lighting in this house for ted and asso, and i am your u.s. senate candidate. yeah. and we have to work together, right together, your attorney general take on a big base, to go after those sex traffickers, to protect seniors from scams. and we did it together, but you know how, what is the most important thing about all of that? it was about problem-solving. it was about fighting for people in this state. and you know who is going to fight for us across the country and in this state? ellen carter. she has always come from solving a process, but she has committed to building an economy that works for everyone, not just for those people at the top. and that is what that state in this election. i have been around and stayed talking to her all the time. we are running out of the worst, worst crisis we have ever seen. the power economy is slowly recovering. right? some families feel struggling. and they check us and go as far as we can. that is why we need to create jobs in this country. and you know what i mean? that is what we need to do. so, right, you can make the largest investment in creating jobs in the world, or two. i will tell you what. i have been around this state. i think my girl, little class, has touched more. because it is about working families and ensuring they have more and their paycheck that they bring home, and people like donald trump. yeah! donald trump, you know, beautiful, claims to put america first. but if you look at iraq, this writer, the only person he puts first is who? donald trump! he said he is going to stand up for america in the world. but he said, when his own product, are they open to the same term? they are running for the same term. and i will tell you what. i will tell you what. we have got pay attention. i do not want for the top of the ticket, but all the way down to the ticket. okay? i have only congress in hand, but as high as the whole, and donald trump, we have next federal. it is me only. the same donald trump, who would punish a woman who has no worship. do you know that congress in hand has voted in washington? did you just say that? he has voted in washington. he has voted in the fun, jock that is tear-fitting. he has even voted to protect tax rights from big corporation, who should jobs overseas. after about all of you, but the choice is clear, she has election, hillary clinton, and all of us, up and down in the ticket, are committed to solving problems from the african-american, not just those at the top of the ticket, but many people heard my story. my grandfather's room to water next to him. oh, my god. oh, my god. and the heart and the heart of my parents, right here in nevada, i am just going to have to start the first time and i am going to graduate from college. i cannot let my grandfather graduate from chicago. yeah. get your hands on me. thank you, guys. great. thank you for had me sit in a drith. i really appreciate your service. i do appreciate yourús on the y i am going to show you guys how everyone deserves an opportunity to succeed. and the only way we are going to succeed is to put a million whiteouts. we are going to make sure she has an honest and supportive soul. we are going to have to go to the team with them. and we are going to get a tell of it. and then you go to the group and you are going to get a send. and you can get ready to turn the valve loop. and then you go to the team with them.