i am going to hold these. how is everybody doing? okay? thank you. here, let me just say this. my name is catherine cortez-mastro. i am the first female senator from the state of nevada and the first latina ever elected to the united states. i tell you that because the reason why i am here is because so many hard working latinos in nevada got out and supported me and elected me to be here to be their voices. if you do not know this, one in five nevadans is an immigrant. and i will tell you, we are here today to send a clear message to this administration that it is not okay to separate parents and their children. that is unacceptable. it is inhumane and it is not who we are as americans. i have watched, started during his presidential campaign, but i have watched as this president has taken it on rhetoric that attacks our immigrant communities. he has brought that hateful rhetoric and actions to the white house. he has rescinded daca. he has rescinded the tps that protects our hard working families. he has deported over a thousand immigrants who have been living in this country for decades. and now with his zero tolerance policy, he wants to separate kids from their parents who have come to the border for protection and help. that is not america. that is not our values. we have been demanding. i have been demanding. my colleagues have been demanding from this administration even a policy that shows how they are going to handle and work with and protect these children and reunify them with their parents. do you think there is a policy out there? no. i have not seen it. what we have seen is their actions and their actions show that they do not care about these families. they do not care about these kids. they do not care about how they are treated. you reunify them with their parents and they certainly do not care the trauma and the impact they are going to have long term on these children and their families. and that is what this fight is about. as americans, we know that we should always look out for the best interests of our children and our families. we have loved in this country to be just one. so with all of our voices today and many more, we are not going to stop fighting to protect these families and keep them together. and here's the other thing. we have a call on all of my colleagues in congress. we passed one. that is the tech these families. i have close contact with three girls. keep our families together. help separated children. and the tragedy in the fourth act that we know of. help your kids. all my colleagues, those on the other side of the aisle, to send a message that this is not okay and we are in a past legislation and we are going to send it to this administration to make the changes to protect these families. thank you very much.