home newsroom press releases april 29, 2025 takano, merkley lead reintroduction of historic equality act to ban discrimination against lgbtq+ americans washington, d.c. – congressional equality caucus chair rep. mark takano and u.s. senator jeff merkley teamed up with wisconsin’s u.s. senator tammy baldwin and new jersey’s u.s. senator cory booker for the bicameral reintroduction of the equality act in an effort to push back against escalated attacks from the trump administration, maga republicans, and state legislatures on the rights and freedoms of lgbtq+ americans nationwide. in states across the country, over 850 anti-lgbtq+ bills have been filed so far this year—the most in u.s. history. the equality act is historic, comprehensive legislation to enshrine civil rights protections for our lgbtq+ friends and neighbors in federal law. the equality act amends landmark federal anti-discrimination laws to explicitly add sexual orientation and gender identity to longstanding bans on discrimination in employment, housing, public accommodations, jury service, access to credit, federal funding, and more. it would also add protections against sex discrimination in parts of anti-discrimination laws where these protections had not been included previously, such as public accommodations and federal funding. “across the country, lgbtqi+ and trans americans are being targeted and attacked, but we refuse to be cowed or intimidated by their hate. instead, we reintroduce the equality act as our declaration that freedom and dignity are the birthright of every american. we will not rest until full equality is the law of the land,” said congressional equality caucus chair takano. “generations of americans have marched, voted, organized, and raised their voices to fully realize the vision of america as a land of freedom and equality for all,” said senator merkley. “as maga extremists attack the rights and freedoms of our lgbtq+ friends and neighbors, i am fighting to end this hateful discrimination, expand freedom, and open the doors of opportunity for everyone. back in 2007, i led the fight to secure this vision for oregonians, and it is way past time for congress to do the same for all lgbtq+ americans by passing my equality act .” “the equality act simply puts into law what we all believe: that every american is created equal and should be treated equally under the law. but, for too many lgbtq+ americans in states across the country, equality under the law is not the reality, and they are harassed at work, denied a place to live, and discriminated against just for being who they are,” said senator baldwin . “the equality act makes clear that in the united states, we can live up to our nation’s highest ideals and we will not tolerate discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity – just like religion, race, or ethnicity. equality is not a privilege, it’s what we’re all owed as american citizens, and i’m committed to making that promise a reality.” “as the trump administration dismantles the civil liberties and legal protections of lgbtq+ folks nationwide––progress that was hard-won and that we are still fighting to maintain––lawmakers in congress must act to pass the bicameral equality act ,” said senator booker. “this legislation would finally make clear that lgbtq+ people in this country cannot be denied entry into a restaurant, be denied federal housing and benefits, or be discriminated against simply because of who they are and who they love. this legislation is long overdue, and i will work tirelessly with my colleagues to ensure the equality act becomes the law of the land.” despite major advances in equality for lgbtq+ americans in recent years, including codifying federal protections for same-sex and interracial marriages, the majority of states still do not have explicit lgbtq+ non-discrimination protection laws. the equality act would finally enshrine protections into federal law under all areas of potential discrimination, protecting the rights and freedoms of all lgbtq+ americans for generations to come. “the equality act is necessary, urgent, and long overdue,” said senate democratic leader chuck schumer (d-ny). “as the trump administration and dangerously conservative supreme court threaten the safety and security of lgbtq+ individuals in the united states, it is the obligation of the senate to ensure that everyone is treated equally under the law – a standard that the united states has long strived for but failed to perfectly meet. i am honored to help lead the reintroduction of the equality act and stand with the lgbtq+ community as we continue to fight for a more equal, just, and loving world." “across the country, from city councils to congress, state legislatures to 1600 pennsylvania avenue, freedom is under attack. the equality act will make sure that members of the lgbtq community can live free from discrimination and pursue the american dream in every single zip code. house democrats will continue to show up, speak up and stand up until this legislation is the law of the land,” said house democratic leader hakeem jeffries (d-ny). “as republicans across the country continue their assault on lgbtq+ americans – particularly the trans community – the fight against bigotry and discrimination remains as urgent as ever,” said speaker emerita nancy pelosi (d-ca). “the landmark equality act – twice passed by the democratic house but blocked by senate republicans – would extend the crucial protections of the civil rights act to all lgbtq+ americans, in the workplace and in every place. today, it was my privilege to join congressional democrats in proudly reintroducing our equality act to continue our fight for a future of equality and dignity for all.” “not only is freedom the birthright of every person; we can only defend ours if we defend everyone’s,” said house democratic whip katherine clark (d-ma). “that’s the basis of the equality act . republicans’ rejection of such a basic truth tells you everything you need to know about the broken state of their party. while they work to strip away equality, freedom, health care, and housing, we are fighting for a future that is worthy of all our children.” the equality act is supported by 47 u.s. senators and 214 u.s. representatives. a full list of the 600+ organizations endorsing the equality act can be found by clicking here . “everyone, no matter who they are or who they love, deserves the right to live free from discrimination and harassment. but lgbtq+ people, who go to school, run small businesses, raise kids and work hard to put food on the table just like everyone else, still don’t have the federal nondiscrimination protections that others have enjoyed for decades. in some parts of the country, we can still be evicted from our homes, kicked out of a public business, or denied government services simply because of who we are. as the trump administration works to erode civil rights protections across the board and state legislatures continue their onslaught against equality, it has never been more important to safeguard the basic protections that are a central part of the american dream. it is time to pass the equality act ,” said jay brown, human rights campaign chief of staff. “this moment demands action. the reintroduction of the equality act comes as the trump administration and state governments across the country launch aggressive attacks on lgbtqia+ americans, especially trans youth. these aren’t abstract policy debates – they are coordinated efforts to erode civil rights and protections, criminalize lgbtqia+ existence, and erase communities. trans youth deserve to be protected by their governments, they shouldn’t have to be protected from their governments. it’s long past time our federal laws reflect and protect the reality and dignity of all people,” said olivia hunt, director of federal policy for advocates for trans equality (a4te).\ “with the lgbtq+ community under attack from the trump administration—and anti-lgbtq+ bills once again rearing their heads in statehouses across the country—the reintroduction of the equality act could not be more prescient. we all deserve to be treated with dignity and respect, regardless of who we are, who we love, or where we call home. the equality act provides common sense nondiscrimination protections for lgbtq+ people—protections that a majority of americans agree should already be available. we are grateful to rep. takano for leading the charge on this critical bill, and look forward to working with him and other members of california’s congressional delegation throughout the process,” said tony hoang, executive director of equality california. stories in support of the equality act and the protections it would enshrine into federal law can be found by clicking here . full text of the equality act as introduced in the senate can be found by clicking here , and here as introduced in the house. a summary of the equality act can be found by clicking here . ### print email share tweet previous article next article