home newsroom press releases september 08, 2025 cecot survivor andry josé hernández romero meets with rep. mark takano washington, d.c. — rep. mark takano (ca-39) met virtually with andry josé hernández romero, the gay makeup artist and asylum seeker wrongfully disappeared by the trump administration to the notorious el salvador prison cecot. while andry has since been released from the veritable gulag that is cecot, his story is shocking to the conscience—as the congressman heard firsthand. andry came to the united states seeking asylum from threats he faced in venezuela because of his sexual orientation and political views. ignoring andry’s pending asylum claim, the trump administration illegally flew him and more than 250 venezuelans to cecot, violating their due process. while at this brutal prison, andry endured terrible treatment. he survived daily assaults and abuses. while andry survived this horrific experience, his scars—seen and unseen—remain and there are still a staggering number of questions as to how these gross violations of due process were allowed to take place. “what the american government did to andry and others is a stain on the moral fabric of our nation,” said rep. takano. “the trump administration violated the constitution and our values by secretly disappearing people into a foreign prison where they were subject to assaults and abuse. no one should ever be subjected to this cruelty, let alone those who came here seeking freedom and safety. andry’s bravery in telling his story is a call to action for all of us to defend due process and the constitution.” "we were lied to by ice officials and then greeted in cecot with beatings,” said andry josé hernández romero. “at every step of the way they abused us. but being venezuelan is not a crime . i’m grateful to congressman takano who has called for justice for the 252 venezuelan men sent to cecot without the opportunity to present their case in immigration court. this story will not end until justice is achieved." congressman takano introduced legislation to prohibit federal funding to the cecot prison and led a special order hour on immigrant rights where he highlighted andry’s story on the house floor. in addition, he co-led a congressional letter when andry was detained in cecot demanding the u.s. government conduct a wellness check on andry, facilitate his access to legal counsel, and immediately facilitate his release. ### print email share tweet previous article next article