home newsroom press releases november 06, 2025 rep. takano hails nancy pelosi as greatest legislative leader of 21st century washington, d.c. — today, congressman mark takano (ca-39) —ranking member of the house committee on veterans’ affairs and chair of congressional equality caucus—released the following statement reflecting on the extraordinary career of speaker emerita nancy pelosi after she announced she would not run for re-election: nancy pelosi has been my colleague, my mentor, and my friend for more than three decades. i met her when i was still a bright-eyed teacher, and even then she was a force driven by her belief that public service should make life better for ordinary people. that sense of purpose and mission carried her to extraordinary heights. lgbtq+ people, veterans, californians, and all americans have benefited from her courage and conviction. there is no question in my mind: nancy pelosi is the greatest legislative leader of the 21st century. since her very first speech on the house floor, when she called for action to confront the hiv and aids crisis, speaker emerita nancy pelosi has been a fearless champion for the lgbtqi+ community. she was one of only 67 representatives to vote against the so-called defense of marriage act and one of the earliest voices to oppose california’s proposition 8. as speaker, she led the house in passing landmark laws that changed lives—the don’t ask, don’t tell repeal act, the matthew shepard and james byrd, jr. hate crimes prevention act, and the respect for marriage act. under her leadership, the house twice passed the equality act, a priority she made clear would always remain at the heart of our fight for full equality. our community has had no greater ally as speaker, and her leadership has brought real, lasting change for lgbtqi+ people across the country. speaker emerita nancy pelosi has been a tireless champion on behalf of our nation’s veterans. from her earliest days as a member of congress to her work as speaker of the house, veterans were a top priority. so much so, that she considers the work we do on their behalf as sacred. the passage of the honoring our pact act, historic legislation that has given nearly 2 million toxic exposed veterans access to the benefits they earned, could not have happened without her tremendous leadership. she knew that this nation made a promise to servicemembers and keeping that promise meant that we must pay for the cost of war. under speaker pelosi’s courageous leadership, a democratic-majority congress made significant strides on behalf of veterans with bills such as the post 9/11 gi bill, the blue water navy vietnam veterans act, the veterans compact act, and many others. these policy successes were only possible because of the work of speaker emerita pelosi and i am honored and humbled to continue her work on behalf of veterans. many in washington forget where they come from once they get a title or a perch in leadership. not speaker emerita pelosi. california has always been in her heart. even as speaker, she never stopped fighting for our state — for our workers, for our families, and for our values. whether it was protecting dreamers, standing up for good jobs, or making sure our communities had what they needed after natural disasters, the speaker emerita was always there. she never forgot home. i will miss the speaker emerita immensely. at a time of extraordinary challenge and change, her leadership has been a constant. she has guided our caucus and our country through some of our hardest moments. but her legacy reaches far beyond the landmark legislation she passed. it lives in the people she mentored, the values she imparted, and the example she set for every person who believes that politics can still be a force for good. thank you. ### print email share tweet previous article