 the city of Florida. And good evening. Come with you live from the Fox for studios right now. It's today a lot of people have been looking forward to or maybe just looking forward to get over with for a long time in Florida and beyond. Alive look at what's happening right now in Miami Dave County. Senator Mark Carubio all smiles as his family comes on to the stage. He has just been elected to a second six year term in the US Senate. Yes, and as we are beginning our coverage here, we want to give you a look at some of the numbers there. It looks like actually he's taking the stage live now. Or Lisa Greenberg is there. Let's take a listen to what Mark Carubio has to say about his second term as a US senator. Let me first start by saying this is a lot better than the last time I did one of these in Miami. Let me let me begin by tell you a few moments ago, I got off the phone with Congressman Murphy and I congratulated him on a good race. Congressman Murphy is a young man with a bright future and I thanked him for his willingness to step forward in public service. Guys running for office is hard. Putting your name on the ballot is hard. And I congratulate him and his family and I look forward to seeing the ways he is going to serve our country in the future. I want to begin by acknowledging what I always do and that is absolutely. You should pat Patrick did ran a great race. All the glory and the praise belongs to my creator to God from my personal faith, my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. He has carried us in every moment of our life and the good times and the difficult ones and the twists and turns and there has been a number of twists and turns this year and so I always acknowledge God and I thank God because the greatest blessing he has given me after the opportunity to be a citizen of the greatest nation on earth is an extraordinary woman to share my life with my wife Jeanette and my four children. We had a great campaign team and I wish I could mention all of their names there are so many great people but I do want to acknowledge someone who came here and helped us run this campaign and did a phenomenal job. There is no one better in the country right now in my opinion at running these things than the person who ran mine his name is Jeanette and I am proud of the great people who have been here and have been here and I am proud of the great people who have been here and I want to thank the staff in my Senate office. I can't tell you how many people came up to me and said you know I am not a Republican but I am going to vote for you because you guys helped me. You helped me with the social security claim. You helped me with an issue at the VA and that is the work we do. We are honored to do it and that is the people that work in my offices in Washington and all across Florida. We have the best Senate staff in the United States. And of course I want to thank the people of this extraordinary state for giving me another opportunity to continue to serve them in the United States Senate. This is an extraordinary place, Florida. It is the collection of all the things that make us the greatest nation on earth. Of people who have lived here for decades, of the descendants of slaves, of the children of immigrants, Florida is America. And it is such an honor to be able to represent the people of the United States and it is such an honor to be able to represent this extraordinary state. I want to say a few words in Spanish because I know people get their news in Spanish, a lot of people that vote for me, learn about me in Spanish, and I want to start to recognize if they are not here but I want to start to recognize our population of Puerto Rican, the Puerto Rico that helped us. And our friend is in the island of Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico is here today. We are here with you and I thank you to the Venezuelans living in the United States. To the Colombians who also are my wife and family. To the Colombians. So obviously, the Cuban, Florida, the Cuban. Thank you very much. We have been through an interesting year as a nation. And we array the results of tonight's election. But here's what I know for sure. Here's what I am. Here's what I am. Here's what I know. There is still no nation on earth that I would rather be. Despite all of our challenges, there is no country and there is no people on this planet that I would trade places with. I am glad that I'm an American in the 21st century. America is going to be okay. I will turn this country around. I have faith. I know God is not done with America yet. He has great plans for our people. And the days and weeks to come. I hope that we as a people here in Florida, I hope we will set the example in this great state. That while we can disagree on issues, we cannot share a country where people hate each other because of their political affiliations. And not move forward as a nation if we cannot have enlightened debates about tough issues. You can disagree with someone without hating them. And you can disagree with them without delegitimizing their point of view. That doesn't mean that our diversity will not continue to divide us on critical issues. It does mean that there is no way for this nation to move forward if we leave anyone behind. And so I hope that I and my colleagues, as we return to work in Washington, D.C., can set a better example of how people are going to be able to be able to do something more practical, of how political discourse should exist in this country. And I know people feel betrayed and you have a right to. Every major institution in our society has failed us. The media, the government, big business, Wall Street, academia, they have all failed us. And so people are so frustrated and angry. But we must channel that anger and frustration into something positive. Let us move us forward as energy to confront and solve our challenges and our problems. America has never had an easy era. Florida has never had an easy era. Our state has always confronted great challenges. And so too has our people. And yet in each generation, Americans are step forward to confront their challenges and embrace their opportunities. And now the time has come for us to do the same. I believe with all my heart that if we do what needs to be done in the years to come, that my children and yours will be the freest and the most prosperous Americans that have ever lived. But we must start now. For while we still have time to get this right, we do not have forever. I will close by saying that while I have the belief that the decisions we make in government are important, I know that in the end, America will not be saved by politicians. I hope that we as a nation will return to our roots as a people and as a nation, respecting our diversity but understanding that ultimately what unites us as a people is the common dream and the common hope of a better life. And that we can only achieve that if we all achieve that. And I hope that God gives me the opportunity and the voice to move forward. And I'll close with this. I hope this nation tonight, irrespective of the outcome for president, that we will all say a prayer for our great country. Because as the ancient words of Scripture tell us, unless the Lord build the house, they labor in vain who build. And unless the Lord guard the city in vain, does the guard keep watch. Let us work together. God bless this great nation. Thank you for the opportunity to continue to serve. God bless all of you. And God bless Florida. Thank you. Thank you very much.