and right now we are also looking at the third district race here and dalia ramirez, the winner there over gilviegas and we have julian cruz joining us now live from her headquarters right now actually with the winner this evening. do it. well, ray and micah jubilation here on the northwest side of chicago dalia ramirez joins me for us, boris hernandez is here as well. dalia, how did you overcome the money disadvantage? you are opponents, he raised more than twice as much money as you did, right? he raised a substantial amount more than i did. here's a difference. i worked and i was not by myself. i literally ran with nine other people and we ran as one. every time commissioner kisala now was talking to people about him and about what he was going to do, we also lifted my voice. we ran together. we had a grassroots group of more than 500 people knocking on doors every single day from west chicago all the way to avondale. people in west chicago just elected me to be their congresswoman. people in bensonville in glen allen to see the amount of people in wheyin who took this campaign to be their own campaign. talking to their neighbors, bringing the yard signs, calling voters, and they started telling me, last week, we are about to win. i am like, well, you think we can win in wheyin? you are going to win in wheyin and carroll street in bensonville and i will over. let me ask you, you are the first guatemalan american to serve in the general assembly. now you are the only latina congressional latina in the midwest, correct? headed to washington dc. what did it mean for you to this victory? you had your mom and your dad, you would hauled them out to stand next to you. that was a very moving moment. why did you bring your parents out? i am the daughter of maria and wiesrami. they worked minimum wage jobs my entire life to raise my siblings and i. my mother is a home care worker making minimum wage on medicaid. when i talk about healthcare, housing, immigration is personal. boris is a daca recipient. when i talk about comprehensive immigration reform, i am talking to my own family that is a mixed status. having my mother take off with no pay, two days, yesterday and today, talking to hundreds of voters because she wanted people to know who her daughter was, and who is and is going to be in congress is why i am standing here. julia ramirez, we thank you so much for talking to you and julia's husband, boris hernandez. thank you, boris. congratulations to the both of you. so ray and micah, the progressive muscle that was flexed here on the northwest side, this newly redistricted third congressional seat will be occupied by a latina. of course, she still has a november election, but there is a gop candidate and because of the demographics of this newly redrawn district, it does not appear that gop has any chance of challenging her. so it will be very interesting to see what she is able to do when she gets to washington. on the northwest side, julian cruz, wgn news. all right, julian, thanks so much.