hello, welcome to the billy wilder theatre. i am claudia bester. i am the director of public programs here at the hammer museum. and i am very, very pleased to welcome you to tonight's special program called harriet's political will, black women's electural strength in an era of fractured politics. tonight's program is part of a week-long program on the status of black women called her dream deferred, organized in collaboration with the african-american policy forum. tonight's program has two parts. first, we will get to see a short play about harriet tubman and her legacy. and immediately afterwards, we will have a panel on black women as a driving force in the fight for equality and justice. the panelists are all political heavyweights if they are if they are on right. attorney barbara arnwine, black lives matter co-founder alicia garza, cnn, political senior senior political reporter nea malika henderson, california state assemblymember sydney kamlager dove, and moderator kimberly crenshaw. and now i would like to welcome the brainchild of her dream deferred to the stage to introduce the play we are about to see. please join me in welcoming the executive director of the african-american policy foundation and professor of law at ucla in columbia law school, kimberly crenshaw. good evening. it is a distinct pleasure to be with you tonight and to share a labor of love on the part of the african-american policy forum and our friends here at the hammer museum. the piece that you are about to see was created over a period of a couple of months with some wonderful artists that i will introduce to you during our panel discussion. but i wanted to give you a little bit of the context of this piece. some of you might remember that a couple years ago it was announced that harriet tubman's face was going to grace the $20 bill. that was a moment that we celebrated. and at the same time i thought it was really odd and ironic that her face would be on the $20 bill, basically because harriet died absolutely destitute. and in fact, one of the struggles that she had for much of her life after the end of the civil war was to get paid. it was a constant focal point of her life. and the reason she wanted to get paid was that she understood that the pathway to freedom was only partially walked by the emancipation proclamation by the end of the civil war by the 13th amendment. there was much more that was necessary. and she was a person who very much wanted to create a home, a place for the dispossessed to find safety, to find support, to just be clothed and fed. and unlike some of the male leaders of the civil war and during the period of reconstruction, harriet did not really get the same kind of resources that they got in order to carry her vision forward. in fact, when she finally was able to receive some kind of compensation, she did not get full compensation for all the things that she had done. she did not get compensation for recruiting a freedman to fight for the union cause. she did not get it for being a scout, for organizing raids, for going behind enemy lines or being a medic. she did not really get resources for that. what she was primarily able to get resources as was a wife of a private who was in the union. and that really stuck with me because at the time we were having a lot of discussions and debates about the racial justice project of the then obama administration, which did not have black women or women of color at the center of it. so the basic idea was that black women's economic development would be dependent upon their relationship to someone else in the same way that harriet tubman's was. so i thought it was such an interesting contradiction that on one hand, her picture was on a $20 bill. the plans were that. and on the other hand, the economic well-being of black women was still being framed in a heteronormative patriarchal way. so it made me wonder what harriet would have to say if she came back now. what lessons would she try to teach young black women right now? and what is the legacy that she gives to us now? so when we first put this on, we did it in like three days and it kind of looked like it. now we have had the benefit of a wonderful partnership with the hammer museum. so it is my great pleasure to present to you, harriet's daughters. thank you. and in the middle we have the statue of harriet tubman. okay. time to move on to the kiln today. harriet tubman. 1824 through 1913. moses, the general, conductor of the underground railroad, freed over 70 slaves. i could have freed a lot more if they would only known there were slaves. now i heard that. you am not never lied, ms. tubman. that is right. never have and never will. of course, they are messophobes that think they are free or it defines how too late that there is not like my sorry husband, john tubman, fool. when all the way back brought him a fine suit, a smart hat will look better than the day we were married. but he did not want no part of freedom. they did not want no part of me either. broke me in two. well that is a story i cannot worry about right now. got a tenders and business. now what year are we in? harriet? i mean, ms. tubman, is that you? of course, who else could i be? now we are a bit lost, do not resist. but do not you worry. mother harriet is here. now where are you off to? well, mother harriet, i was just looking around, going nowhere in particular. i feel like we are moving. you want to sit down sister. moving backwards. no way in particular. i am not never had no way in particular to be. i cannot remember a time that i did not have a bushel of jobs and a whole bunch of stuff to do. by the time i was 19, i had worked from son up to sundown for 13 years. by then i figured i would hide myself away from my master, which i did. saved up enough to buy two oxen and i broke facts and i cleaned houses and i made bricks and i freed slaves and i, where were i, i, i, i, what else did i do? fed armies tended wounds. blood rays. blood rays. and in all this time, i would never got around wondering around aimlessly myself. oh, but if you are looking to find yourself daughter, the mother harriet is here and i am here to help you sit on your way. mother harriet, i, i, i, i, how is this possible for you to be here or, or made to be in 1886? why? i, i, i, i, i, i, i, i cannot say. but i did have a vision that there was something going on down here big related to mother harriet's money and i figure all those white folks will not give me what i am do. that is what made the earth shatter and whatnot. and then all the thunder and enlightenment. i bet it is all the mother white folks rolling in their graves. so with all this shaken and rolling, i think we are in a time flux and i am going to go back and set things straight. that is what i am going to do. okay. well, mother harriet's getting paid and while we are at it, we are going to get some things straight. oh, i think i know what you are talking about. here. look, sure. now, would you go and show me this? look, i think this is what you saw. you are on our $20 bill. that is your currency now. well, not your currency, but this is to honor you. a $20 bill. my, my father paid $20 to get my mother away from messing with. she could not work. a $20 bill. that is what the government think i am worth. that is what they are going to pay me as a veteran of the war. well, in the funny, how it was worth more when we were owned by slaves, when we were owned by a massive, then we were owned right by ourselves. lincoln paid a whole bunch of money to get rid of us. and then once we were free, were not worth a dime. and we were not worth a dime to ourselves either. well, i might not have no money, but i did have sense enough. oh, here, here, and even my white friends like to say, you ignorant. but i had sense enough to get my family free and a whole bunch of others too. right under their noses. got them all except my sister, her babies. but i am going back to fix that right now. do that for me, sister. now, now you let me know when that thing gets back to where i am 1858. we will do. you know, there are a whole lot of folks who are literate. and they do not know how to do squat. but mother harriet, how did you manage to get free and go back again and again and why risk it? okay, okay, now listen now. you just got to be ready. pay attention and use the fact that they can see right through you to your advantage. do you know how many times i went back? well, right by a mess. now he did not see me. i am by him. no one can see me that i do not want to. happened, you figured that out already. now, boo, honey, child. wait a minute now. my son cannot go up my skirt falling down. that is not going to work. let me show you something else. you see this? what? what? baboom! i got one for you over here. oh, you did that for me. thank you. now, listen, my sister is going to be on the auction block this sunday. and this is my last chance to get her. now, listen, you put this in your bag. you got a bag. you do not have a bag. we are going to get you a bag. you put that one in your bag. oh, and come on. we have got to get it before the auction block. let us go. hmm oh you ready? you ready? always ready? you ready? always ready? always ready? always ready? you ready? you ready? always ready? in the water? wait in the water, children, way in the water god's gonna trouble the water, swing low, sweet sharia come and for the carry me home, swing low, sweet sharia go down moses, tell the pharaoh to let my people go you ready? you ready? you ready? you ready? you ready? you ready? you ready? you ready? you ready? you ready? you ready? you ready? ah! ah! ah! please, ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! oh, dear, ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! ah! mother harriet, the war has been over 30 years now. it is 1895. you remained a general and conductor of the underground railroad, freed more than 700 slaves and recruited most all the men to the union side to vote. yeah! still waiting on the money put here for that to. you saved the commander and all of them that had the fever with your root medicine. you have not been paid for that. had a network of spies to keep up with the confederate movements and even behind confederate movements, you are... you have been more to being paid for a widow from my second husband, a private than i got for being a veteran myself. you are waiting to be paid what is yours. yeah, and not just for me. but for all those women and men who come out of slavery who have nothing to name. what now, mother harriet, for now, sweetie. you can take that. and for my daughters, the ones who are always ready. i think you tell them that mother harriet is always here. wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, what more say? i gotta give you my show. here you go. thank you. thank you. thank you. so now i would like to introduce part two of tonight's special program. we have a panel of brilliant women who are all deeply engaged in contemporary social and political issues. they are here with us tonight to talk about how black women continue to be a driving force in the fight for equality and justice. barbara arnewine is the founder and president of the transformative justice coalition, an organization that advocates for racial, gender, economic, environmental, and other forms of social justice. arnewine also teaches at the north carolina central university school of law. she is the president emeritus of the lawyers committee for civil rights under law. and in 2011 she created the legendary voting rights map of shame. alicia garza is an internationally recognized organizer, writer, and public speaker. who co-founded the black lives matter movement in 2013. in 2018, alicia founded the black futures lab, which works to make black people powerful in politics. currently as the strategy and partnerships director for the national domestic workers alliance, garza works to place domestic workers at the forefront of the movement to change the domestic work industry, and to build an economy that places people over profits. her writing and work has been featured in time, the guardian, essence magazine, and the new york times. she is received numerous awards and honors, including the sydney peace prize, and she was a member of the 2016 tribunal of the u.s. black women's truth and reconciliation commission held at the united nations. nia malika henderson is a senior political reporter for cnn, reporting on politics, policies, and people shaping washington. henderson reports for the network's digital and television platforms and regularly appears as a panelist on the cnn programs inside politics, the situation room with wolf blitzer, and cnn tonight with dawn lemon. henderson covered the 2016 election, the presidential transition, and now covers donald trump's administration and the democratic party. prior to joining cnn, she was a national political reporter for the washington post, where she covered the white house, the 2012 presidential campaign, the 2010 midterms. and anchored the post's election 2012 blog. she also covered the first two years, the obama administration for politico, for politico, and was news day's lead reporter covering obama's 2008 campaign, the democratic primary race, and the democratic national convention. before joining news day's national staff, she wrote for the baltimore sun. sydney come logger dove is a teacher and frequent speaker on education issues, economic development, and the arts among other topics. in 2015, she became the second african-american woman ever elected president of the los angeles community college district, serving over 250,000 students. she also served as the district director for california state senator holly j. mitchell. she now serves as my assembly member for the great state of california since her election to the california state assembly in a special election in 2012 or 2018, sorry, where i had the privilege for voting for her. and her special areas of focus are education, criminal justice reform, and poverty. kimberly crenshaw, professor of law at ucla and columbia law school, is leading authority on civil rights, black feminist legal theory, and race racism and the law. she is the founding coordinator of the critical race theory workshop and co-editor of the volume critical race theory key documents that shaped the movement. her groundbreaking work on intersectionality is traveled globally and was influential in the drafting of the equality clause in the south african constitution. crenshaw is the executive director of the african-american policy forum, agenda and racial justice legal think tank, and the founder of the center for intersectionality and social policy studies at columbia law school. she is a leading voice and calling for a gender inclusive approach to racial justice interventions. and she spearheaded the why we cannot wait campaign and co-authored two important and influential policy reports, black girls matter pushed out over police and underprotected, and say her name resisting police brutality against black women. so now please join me in welcoming barbara arnwine, alicia garza, nea malika henderson, sydney cum laugh, or dove and kimberly crenshaw. thank you. good evening. well, it is really a special honor to share the stage with some of my heroes. we are really looking forward to an inspired conversation. before i get started though, there is some people i have to thank. i mentioned that we put this performance together basically in an apartment over a couple of days. and i have my artist and residents to thank for that. dina wright-josef, who was our choreographer, fiya walkingtree, who was our conductor of the musicians and abby dobson, who you heard her mesmerizing voice. so first wanted to acknowledge their incredible role. i also want to thank darcy craiger and vane asadarian, who directed this play for us here at the hammer. it really is a learning for me to see artists at work and how they can bring to life a vision that kind of just sits in your head for a while. so it was really a lot of fun working on this. the entire point of the play is to provide a new predicate or a new point of departure for thinking about the historical legacy of black women's political struggle and its contemporary dimensions. we have gotten together to talk a little bit about some of the resonances of harriet's legacy for today. and part of that conversation involves looking very closely at what is unfolding now in the country as we are moving to 2020. so i wanted to start, first of all, by just giving us a little bit of an opportunity to think back about what was resonant in this particular performance and what we can bring forward. so barbara, i am going to start with you. so next year will be the 100th anniversary of the 19th amendment. this is a moment where history is making itself. i guess present we have all kinds of celebrations that are happening all over the place. it is the women's hour as we were told somewhat in contrast to the line in the play where harriet talks about frederick douglass saying it is the negroes hour. so there was a negroes hour and then there was a women's hour and i am wondering when was the black women's hour? i think that the bad news, everyone, is that as people will gather next year in 2020 to celebrate the 100, i say you have got a minus 45 because it would take black women another 45 years to get the right to vote. even though black women were at the forefront of the suffragous movement and were outspoken about the right of women to vote and their stories, i would be well barnett and so many others, their amazing stories of their struggle, they will tell you a course that they were told to march at the back of the line behind the white women doing the various suffragous movement marches, yet our sisters being sisters, they came to the front and took their place. now they could not change that when it came to all these states that were engaging in that era of voter suppression. i think also people need to know that even before we got to the women's vote that harriet tubman, even in her destitution in 1896, she is the keynote speaker at the national black women's political convention. she is the keynote speaker, we are trying to find some record of that speech, but just think about it, that she is still powerful enough to gather women from around the country and to give not just a rendition of her life but a political direction for black women. so that legacy needs to be lifted up. it is gotten lost. it is almost like her story ends the minute the civil war is over, but it did not. one of my, there is so much, i mean we will come back to harriet again because there is so much that she did politically that we ought to learn from now. we will come back to that, but i just want it to open with that observation that the women's movement will never be whole, will never be complete until it reconciles the true story of its origin and the true story of its betrayal of black women and the true story of the embrace that really has to occur of our agenda and our issues. thank you. yes, barbara, thank you for that. we might linger here for a moment because when we fast forward to the future, we are going to be talking about this thing called the women's vote. we are going to be talking about this notion of is there a political coalition around women's issues and it behooves us to think about that through a historical lens. so we do know that in the aftermath of the 14th and the 15th amendment, there was a split. the suffragettes at some point broke off from the anti-slavery part of the political establishment and not only did they break off, they broke off in a big way and began to say some things that have in some ways hindered coalition between black women and white women for a generation. what is the significance of their breaking off and some of the things that elizabeth cady staggins, susan b. anthony had to say about how they felt about black men getting the vote before white women did. well, they felt that it was really ugly because they said things like these uneducated, unclean black men getting the right to vote before educated, proper white women was just unacceptable. and you do not need what is a really vicious cycle because what we do not hear in any of this debate because the voices of the white women and susan b. anthony with this long relationship with frederick douglass, you know, it is struggle. we know some of those stories but what we do not have is enough of the record of what black women were saying during that time because that is be straight that it was not just white women who were discontented that they were denied the right to vote when black men got the right to vote. we also had some say about that because they wanted to have their power heard also. so what we basically did in response to all of this madness is that we do what we always do. we created our own clubs. we created an entire national movement called the black women's, you know, so, you know, club movement. that was absolutely powerful so that when the 1895 movement of a convention of the national convention of colored women is held in boston in 1895, there are something like 42 major black women clubs that are represented there from over 18 states and, you know, black women are coming and they are saying powerful messages about their anger at the stereotype. their anger at the fact that they are called betwixting between. they are called between the white men, white women, and they are called between black men and they, in fact, you know, they are famous, they are famous book titles, all the men are the blacks and men, all the women are white. all the blacks are men and all the women are white and then we are still caught up in that dynamic and that is why your creation of the role concept of intersectionality to put this into context and not only perspective but to really force the policy discussed and we have got to have in this country about how we give full voice and full power to black women. yes, thank you, barbara. you know, i am struck. i am struck by the vision of the black women's club movement which is often not talked about as a political formation, right? it tends to be talked about as a cultural formation, you know, lifting as we climbed the idea that the work they were doing was domestic but in fact it was very much a political formation and in part the failure to lift that up is a part of the erasure of black women's political history in the same way that harriet tubman as a political actor has been erased. so we literally see her like we saw her at the beginning of the play like a statue that sort of her relevant life as a leader ended at the end of the civil war. so one of the things we seem to be battling now is against the erasure of our history and against the valoration of white women's suffragist history without talking about the racial dimensions of it. so one of the questions then is what is the contemporary dimension of that? and for this, nea, i want to come to you. in talking about in this current political moment how race and gender dynamics are playing out in political discourse now there is a whole lot of you know projection and discussion about what 2020 looks like. so a lot of times race and gender considerations do not announce themselves in the way people talk about politics but yet there is a sense that actually these are race and gender discourses. so help us decode what is being talked about. yeah. so the obvious ways race and gender are talked about are the field right. it is a huge field. it is the most diverse field in history. more women, the democratic field, more women running than ever. it is five women. you have kamala harris who announces her candidacy with echoes of shirley chisholm who of course ran for the white house in 1972. so you have that kind of field represented in a way in which people can easily talk about race and gender. what does this mean? it is reflection of sort of the new woke era right in the democratic party. it is an echo of what we saw in 2018 with all of those candidates in the house being ushered in the most diverse house we have ever seen in terms of the democratic side. powered there by women, stars who have emerged like alc and iana pressley, lucy mcbath, people like that. so that is one obvious way we talk about it right. the other i think more complicated, less obvious and i think uncomfortable ways in which people are talking about race is this whole idea of electability right. and who are the candidates who are thought of as the electable candidates right. and so i think this is pretty obvious. it is the white male candidates. it is joe biden thought of as electable because he supposedly has some magical power in the midwest to have voters who voted for trump to vote for him. beto or work, another candidate thought to have this sort of superpower of making trump voters vote for him. if you look at a lot of the data in texas, i think you got about 3% of trump voters. and stacey abrams, by the way, got 2% of trump voters in georgia. so she apparently does not have the same magical power. beto or work does. i am not sure why. yeah, she does not have our encounters. and so that is i think the way in which we are talking about electability but it really is about it is always the power of being white, the power of being white in male. and so that i think in some ways i think it is we are at a point at least if you look at a lot of folks who were writing talking on television about this field, there is a way in which we are recognizing and talking about white male identity in a way that we did not before and in a way that was not so comfortable before for a lot of people. one of the ways that people talk about it is this idea that somehow white men are at a disadvantage in this field, right? because apparently there is a real appetite for an african american woman or a black man or yeah, i mean, which is absurd. the idea that somehow being white in male all of a sudden is a burden, right? it is called white male privilege, right? it is not called white male disadvantage. so, so you know, these are sort of all of the dynamics that are at play in this race that is very much going to be about race and gender. and you know, it is obviously heightened by donald trump who talks about race and talks about gender in very obvious ways, right? you think about past or public in candidates. in many ways they basically you know, sort of the dog whistle way of talking about race and gender and if you are donald trump, you basically decided to really openly play with white identity politics and you saw that and obviously the returns and some of the anxiety that white voters had about some of the demographic shifts. so, you have, i think in the democratic side, a real reaction to that and a grappling with what it means to be a woke democrat. you know, what it means to, if you are joe biden, like how do you deal with this new era where you have to account for what he did with anita hill? yeah, you know, he keeps talking about this in the same way. he said, you know, well, i owe her an apology and a lot of people are saying, well, you actually did not apologize to her, right? you know, she is still waiting on that apology. he is talking for instance about violence against women and one of the things he said recently, this was an interview he gave, i think it was yesterday and he blamed white male culture for violence, right? and violence against women, which when i heard that i was like my goodness, i mean, he almost sounds like sort of like a black nationalist, like talking about, you know, sort of like, you know, the white man. and so you wonder if that is going to be a good idea for him to use those words, right? but again, this is him trying to figure out how to sound like a woke white man, right? and i think it is proving very difficult for him. and we will see where that goes. we will see if he runs for the white house, but you can see him sort of signaling that this is important, this diversity that is in the democratic party, name dropping, stacey abrams, this idea that maybe there would be a ticket with stacey abrams. so yeah, i mean, this is going to be a fascinating race. i think it is going to be, it is obviously a diverse field and we talk about that when we talk about kamu here as you talk about cory booker, but it is also going to be a field that could be half white men, right? if they are 14 candidates, it could literally be 14 white men, two of whom are named john, john hickenlooper and john delaney. so that is what the field could look like. and so when you hear all the, you know, kind of buzzwords about electability in many ways that is talking about whiteness, it is talking about maleness, and a lot of the metrics we are going to be talking about in terms of who is a front runner and who is strong are again about race, right? if you think about why biden is on top, it is about name recognition. if you think about the ways in which better or work for instance is leading and fundraising, $6.1 million or something, typically african americans do not necessarily donate to political campaigns. obama only 8% of the money that he raised came from african americans. so if you are kamu harris, you raise like $1.5 million. and so by that metric of money raising, she might not look like the strongest candidate. so all of these ways in which we think very obvious ways we talk about race and then in not so obvious ways. so, you know, buckle up. well, so in many ways, there are a lot of things that are on the table, you know, in this race. some part of it is a battle for, you know, the discursive high ground. so when, when i very much appreciate you are introducing the white identity dimension of it, because for the most part, identity politics gets attached to kamu harris, to stacey. it does not get attached to biden, right? even while the conversation is explicitly, how are we going to get the white working class back? so i am like, watch tv and i was like, do you not realize when you say that, you are engaging in identity politics? it may be white identity politics, but it is still identity politics. so how can they continuously frame it in a obviously identitarian way? but yet at the same time, make it seem like our choices and our candidates are not. so i am wondering about this. my colleague, harris has a phrase word. he says that so much of the debate nowadays is about diminished overrepresentation of white men, diminished overrepresentation. it is still overrepresentate. it is still, but that little diminishment is a constitutional crisis for people. so it seems like a lot of this is playing out in what you are describing. the flip side is there does seem to be something about the fact that black women are, i sometimes call it the wheels of the bus. so is that an exaggeration to say that black women's political mobilization is a driving force in democratic possibilities, not necessary power, but possibilities. so if you look at the participation rate of african-american women, say over the last 30 years, starting in 1984 or so, it is about 60%, meaning the percentage of black women who are eligible to vote actually voting. and they are sort of in the middle of the pack in terms of the white men are higher and white women are higher in terms of participation rate. you fast forward to 2008 and black women in that election set a record for voter participation. it is like 68% in 2008. it is 70% in 2012. so you can see a lot of times you talk about obama's victory and there is this idea of the surge of african-american voters, like 2 million extra african-american voters and a lot of that was powered by african-american women because the black vote is powered by african-american women. they are about 60% or so of the overall black vote and black men about 40%, 45%. so yes, and you see this showing up in other races. you see it showing up for instance in the doug jones race in alabama. you see it showing up in the terry mcauliffe race. do you see it showing also in the northumb race, the governor, the black face governor? i think you remember him. but yeah, black women supported him and even supported him after the black face incident. so yes, you do see that power. and then even if you think about 2012, you think about 2008 and you think about 2016, the sole way that hillary clinton is able to get the nomination is because black women in georgia vote for her in record numbers, black women in south carolina vote for her in record numbers. i mean, all of those southern states, she just cleans up by connecting with african-american voters, primarily african-american women, who dominate the democratic party in the south. they just run everything in terms of democratic politics in the south. so you fastward again to 2020, what does this look like for all of these candidates in terms of trying to appeal to african-american voters, primarily african-american women voters? what does that look like for canada, like kamal harris, again giving a nod to shirley chisholm giving a nod to the a.k.a. she is a member of that sorority, having part of her announcement at howard university. so you can tell, i mean, she obviously would be strong among that group. somebody like biden thinks he would be too. we will see if he is. but i think one of the other things you hear from black women is this real desire to fight. it is down in alabama with hillary clinton and a couple other candidates and just a woman came up to me and she was just like, i am not angry. but i do want to fight, but i want to fight to win. i mean, there is a real sense of urgency among the black women i talk to. and i think you are going to see that show up. what does that mean in terms of how the candidates can connect with them? what sort of issues they bring up? criminal justice reform. you have got kamal talking about teachers, giving teachers a raise. obviously a lot of african-american women in the south are teachers and then white women across the country as well. but yeah, so there is this power in terms of black women at the voting booth, but you do not necessarily, i think you can probably talk about it, as you do not necessarily see it in terms of representation, right? never before a black woman governor, stacey abrams came close, ran this amazing campaign in georgia obviously, only one black woman. i think ever been elected center, kamal harris being one of them, carol mosley being the other one. so there is this idea, i think, that still black women are not necessarily electable, right? because even people talk about kamal harris, you never necessarily hear the word electability attached to her in terms of being president. she is typically talked about as somebody who can run in tandem as a vp, right? with biden. but not in her own right? right in the right. and you know, some part of that electability issue has to do with the voting behavior of white women. i am really taken by the overwhelming support that black women gave hillary clinton. right. and the opposite with respect to stacey, i think it was like 77% of white women voted for her opponent. so if we were even able to approach the, like a very small percentage of white women voting patterns that was clearly what was the formula that put hillary in contention? if we were to able to move beyond, i use this term asymmetric solidarity. right. so black women are therefore a whole lot of people that am not there for them. we are there, we are there for our brothers. and i am about to come to you because i am thinking about so yes, there is this political power. but it does not necessarily translate to seeing the number of black women elected that we would think that level of power in the voting booth would translate to. so what is it that we are not seeing or understanding in terms of the barriers, the obstacles, the conditions in which black women move from being politically active to actually being candidates to actually becoming elected? there are so many barriers we do not even have enough time this evening. you know, i was thinking on the way over here, i just came back from sacramento. we had a number of tough votes in a public safety. i said on public safety committee and you know, there are hard conversations that you are having because we use these strange definitions about who is suffering from mental health illness and who is a criminal and you know who should be fine and given assessments and penalties and when should we revoke these, you know, and who really deserves restorative justice and who really should be locked up. and i was thinking all day, tuesday and today, you know, that when we are talking about race and gender, you know, that your privilege does not trump my existence, right? and you have to say that in these spaces. we are in the most progressive state some would argue, you know, in the nation, california. we have 40 million people living here. we have four african-american women in the senate and in the assembly combined. we have one black female senator and we have three african-american assembly women and none of us represent a majority african-american or a majority of color district. and so all of us were elected because of white voters, male and female who for one reason or another probably decided to look toward values over, you know, racial representation and are giving us a pass. we could, i could not go out and drum up enough black women voters to keep me in this seat if i tried because we are just not here. we also have to have real conversations about the fact that as we look at the map of all of the districts, the 120 districts that make up this state of california, if we are looking to run black women, they too will be running in non-majority black districts. then you have to have a whole conversation about electability about who is viable. can you raise money? how much does it take? i ran in a special election. it was a million dollar race. now i asked a lot of folks that looked like me to give me some money that certainly was not on the leader board in terms of givers, right? my folks. so who can raise the money? who can actually get the machine behind you? i am a democrat. most folks who are black, all of the folks actually who are black who are in the legislature are democrats. you have to go through another machine, the democratic party. well, let me tell you a little bit about that. less than 3% of the delegates that make up the california democratic party are african american women. 150. there are 150 black female delegates representing this state. we actually run chairs to be the party chair of the democratic party in all states. we have a race going on right now. we have a black sister running to be chair of the democratic party. there is no way in god's green earth that those 150 votes will be the only votes that she will need to win, right? and so this sister has got to build a coalition and reach out to get other allies to help her succeed if she will be successful, right? so a, that means if the california democratic party wants to say, i want to have a black female agenda. where are black women on this platform? who is going to vote for that? you know, out of thousands of delegates, right? we all will not be able to lead that charge to the front, right? then you, so i have to say, as a result of that, because the sister ran before and there were some things that went down and she was not successful. as a result of that, i actually co-founded the black women's democratic club because i said, well, i will be damned if we have to go through this again or if any candidate comes before the party to get the nomination and to run and to not have more black women at the seat of the table. but it also means that we have to code switch because we have to figure out how to both represent ourselves and then represent everyone else in a way that is appealing, right? and tasteful to folks who may not be accustomed to hearing about black issues. and i want to go a little deeper into this issue because i recall after the re-election of barack obama, there was a whole conversation that really, it began in the first campaign, but then really took off that there was a new generation of black elected officials. these are elected officials who are not black politicians, but politicians who happen to be black. it was sort of intermingled with this idea of post-racialism, which basically means that we are beyond race, which tended to be translated into, do not ask me to talk about anything black. do not ask me to put on the agenda anything that might identify me as black. do not ask me to carry the water for anything that might sour my reputation among the white voters that i need. so what i am interested in is a, how you have navigated that post-racial expectation. and b, do you think that it is possibly the case that black women, because they already are navigating stuff, they are black, they are women, they are many things, they do not get caught up in this idea that the only way i can be a black elected official is to deny every part of my constituents who are black and parts of myself. you know, so i do not think i have time to be anything other than who i am, you know, and i am emancipated black woman. and so i let everyone know when i was walking around knocking on doors that that was who i was and who i continued to be. i have to believe that voters are interested in authentic candidates that speak to them. and if you are letting folks know who you really are and then are stepping into the issues that are important to you, then you know, that is sort of, you know, that is the sweet spot in terms of connecting with folks. and you know, i will always talk about affordability issues and income inequality. i will always talk about criminal justice reform. i will always talk about the need to renovate our public education system. i will always talk about ways that we can have pathways into the middle class. i will tell you, after the failed 2016 national election, the dnc called an emergency meeting of 50 or so black female elected and stakeholders in the party and said, we need some help because we thought we were going to win in all of these races and we did not. and so we all flew to dc in the summer, very humid. hair was, you know, wide to have a conversation. and we said, you know, what was your agenda? what was the plan? how did you use black women? how were we involved? and folks, many of these sisters were from the south. they said, you know, because we were never engaged. we were putting our own pennies together to figure out how to get these folks elected. and, you know, where was the dnc? and the dnc said, we do not have any money and we do not have a plan. we do not have a black sister's plan. and i was thankful that folks were honest, but it was really sobering. and we were coming up on the race with stacey abrams and a couple of others. and you know, we said, then just give this to us and give us a little bit of something and then we will figure it out. and then we will come back to you in some months and you better have a plan. but i have to tell you for many of us who associate ourselves with the democratic party, it was, it was disheartening to hear that this infrastructure had forgotten us and was yet dependent on us to keep it going. and at least was honest enough to say, we are actually not that still, we are still not that interested in you all black sisters because we are still trying to get the disaffected white male vote. and we said, well, that vote is probably gone for eight years. so can you just come back to us? but sometimes you have to have those very real conversations, you know, and we were there for a few hours trying to remind them that these were the sisters who have shown up and who are going to continue to show up to find candidates to help them raise money and to get them across the finish line. but that can be disheartening. it is a little bit like that saying they do not want to dance with the people that bring them to the party. right. so stepping for a moment outside of the immediate electoral arena to the broader political discourse, i want to go to you, alicia. so we are in a moment where there are many different political waves that have happened. and of course you are at the center of one of them black lives matter. and i think it is fair to say that the leadership of that moment and that movement looks a little different than the leadership of anti-racist movements in the past. the acknowledged leadership, let me say that. at the same time, it seems like that difference made the difference. number one, and is also subject to backlash politics. so it is easy for us really to talk about politics in the big democratic party and white voters who are still not ready to vote for black people. and that is a constant. but there are also internal politics that are playing out. so i am wondering how you can take us through mapping of some of the internal backlash politics and what that might pretend for 2020. well, shall the church say? you know, well, it is ready for it. so here's the thing. i mean, i always like to say that we are looking for martin luther king when we also need to be looking for fanny lou hamer. and part of the intervention, i think black lives matter was able to make was to use police violence and very visible instances of police violence and state sanctioned violence to also give contour to who was experiencing violence, to give contour to why. and because of your work, kim, i think we were also able to say the face of violence in this country, meaning people who are experiencing state sanctioned violence are not just heterosexual black men. and when we did that, i think what we also created room for was actually the growth of a movement because so many people from black communities who have been kept out of mainstream black politics said, oh, there is a place for me finally. and when we were able to do that, we were able to have different conversations about what is happening in our communities. we are able to have different conversations about issues, right? so we do not have to keep saying things like how do black people get to the middle class? because we can talk about, well, can lgbt black people ever get there, right? can poor black women ever get there? can black immigrants get there? like we could actually have a different kind of conversation about who is black and what are black people experiencing? i think the reality, though, is that to be honest, there is a huge backlash to that. and it is come in several forms. i will say to be 100% honest that the biggest supporters of black lives matter are black women. and a lot of that has to do with the lived experience of being pushed to the side and having your work completely invisibleized. so it was black women who said, oh, no, no, no, no, no, check this out. we are going to make sure that you are all good. we are going to make sure that this story gets told correctly. and we are also going to make sure because when we actually decided that we would come out and say that we started this thing, it was because black male dominated institutions were trying to claim it for themselves. we were fine to be anonymous until other folk were like, well, this is our thing and then started to water down what it was that we were talking about. so there is a backlash. there is a backlash on the level of why are these black women? trying to change the way that we have always done things. so there is one. there is backlash on the very basic level of, um, who are these black women who have tattoos and who are queer and who are immigrant and who are all of these different things? who do you think you are? literally. and then there is a backlash that is the one that we all know, right? the all lives matter, the blue lives matter. there is all of that, which i call willful ignorance. right? that is like saying water is wet. the sky is blue, right? we know all lives matter. um, and they should matter, but they do not. and so this is, this is the conversation we are trying to have. and i was saying to a friend earlier today who asked me if i was surprised that people are so shocked by black lives matter. i said, i am not surprised by it. i actually think it is the lowest common denominator that we can be talking about. like if you actually believe all lives matter, then black lives matter should not even be an issue for you. right? right. but then at the, there is a fundamental level that i do not think we talk about a lot, which is the backlash that is coming that is related to both black lives matter and then intersecting with the me too movement. and this is a backlash that essentially says that black men are getting beat up on and that black men, there is not enough attention being paid to black men. and there is an alignment that is happening, right? that i am incredibly concerned about. now, i do not know if people, i do not know how much i want to go into this, but i am just going to say it and we will see what happens. there is a conversation right now that is happening about reparations. it is exciting. i like conversations about reparations. i think we should have more of them. they should be placed in a historical context. we should not act like the conversation about reparations is new. it is a long, not only conversation, but body of work. yes. and it has never been intended to be exclusive to certain black people. and there is a conversation that is happening under the guise of reparations that is essentially saying reparations should be limited only to american descendants of slaves. and the reason for that is because black women, black queer people, black immigrants, and every other person in community of color is hijacking the potential that black people can reach in terms of of redress for wrongs that have been committed. and why i am concerned about that is because it mirrors very closely. a lot of us kept talking about kanye being on one. what kanye was talking about and how kanye was being used was for a very similar agenda. the conversation around black people exiting from the democratic party because of dissatisfaction around not being invested in, not being resource, not being engaged got hijacked to then say, well, black people should leave the democratic party in favor of the republican party, which cares more about you. and when we saw those sit downs between donald trump and kanye west, what were the conversations? the conversations were about black fatherhood, black malehood, black business, right? it is gendered and it is racialized and it is classed and it is sexual identity-ized in a way that i think we should be concerned about. and the reason for that is it aims to roll back the openings that we have started to break open not just with white america and understanding who black people are, but inside of black america and embracing the complexity of who black people are. if that strategy is successful and if the coalition that is black people because we do not all think the same, agree on everything and i think if anybody's good at coalition politics is black people. right? but if that strategy is successful, i actually do think there are implications for 2020 because the reason that the democratic party has not invested in black people is because they assume that black people are always going to go along and get along. we do not have to worry about bringing black people along with the democratic party agenda because we, we, we, we, we, we, we, we, which you the whole time. but if a margin of that support erodes, that actually creates chaos for democratic party politics and i do not think we have talked about that in a way that is nuanced enough or serious enough to be honest. so there, there are two things about what, what you are saying that is so jump out at me. one is the fact that the male focus pro patriarchy, this is what they need. i want to throw jim brown in that conversation because he was part of it as well. but, but we do have to acknowledge that that is not just happened on the republican side of the line. let us let us remember that actually the point of departure for this conversation was the fact that my brothers keeper was lifting up this particular kind of narrative about what it, what ails black people. what ails black people is our gender disrepair. you know, what we need is traditional, two family, heteronormative families. and until we get that going, we cannot expect any other kind of program or intervention. and this is exactly at the same time that working women are being talked about in positive ways when it is not talked about in a black context. when, when even sexuality engendered all of these issues are being embraced by, you know, the party. when it comes to black folks, we are back in aussie and harriet land. so it is interesting that it is like a loaded gun on the table that can be picked up by the republicans as well as the democrats. so this is sort of like always sitting there, you know, sort of, sort of messing us up. so, so i am hearing that and i am also hearing the lack of investment, right? so you go to washington dc and find out they do not have any plans to keep us mobilized. they think that it is just going to work out that way. and so here, black women are kind of a bit twist in between, you know, asking for it to be made. and so what it reminds me of is actually when you were trying to get to the white house to talk about something very important. and that is the fact that the aftermath of the first election created a huge wave of voter repression. right? it was happening across the country and it was racial. but the post-racial party, the post-racial president, did not want to hear it. so talk a little bit about you were talking about coalition, how you had to use collisional politics, basically to get in front of the attorney general so that the reelection campaign was even possible. right. and it is such a problem because, you know, i, you know, i, me and my big mouth, right? i guess you could say, you know, because i had the nerve to say that president obama should have nominated a black woman to the supreme court. you know, and that made me personal and regret in the white house because i said i was not supporting a lena kagan, not because he, if a black president is going to point a black woman to the court, who is? and so i was raising all kind of sand and they said, okay, we got you. and that means you are banned from the white house. so, let me just underscore this. at the time, you are leading one of the major civil rights organizations in the country. so one of the law are for 25 years. the lawyers committee on civil rights under law was being led by barbara arnwine. during much of this time, particularly this time, you are also leading the fight against vote repression. yes. but you are banned for no way. well, and so you know, it is the same. ultimate contradictions, right? so, what happens is that while i am banned, you know, the 2010 election, midterm elections happen, our folks do not show up, do not show out, do not do anything because we are happy! we got a black president. we guys, does, does cruising with joy. and the polls, you know, racial narrative is just rolling. and so that is, you know, so it is a real bizarre time. but i am sitting in my office and my staff starts, i mean, like january the 5th starts bringing me letters, the sign about all these ugly restrictive voting laws that were popping up as emergency must pass immediately, immediately, legislation in the states. and so the first letter i sign, and i said, oh, that is some ugly stuff. voter, i, strict voter, voter id, they are killing early voting. they just eliminated, you know, election day registration. what the hell? and so then the next one comes, and i sign and i said, wait a minute. it is the ugly strict voter id eliminating, i said, wait a minute. by the third letter, i said, wait, wait, wait, these letters are all looking the same to me. what is going on? you know, did i just sign this? and they said, no, that was for the other state. i said, well, did i sign another one that was for the other state? i said, well, wait a minute. what is going on, people? they said, well, we think there is this thing called the american legislative exchange council, alex, that is behind this model of voter repressive legislation. and by the fifth letter, i said, this is horrid. we have to be mobilized. what is wrong with our community? why are not we calling this out? why is all of the state by state? why is not there a national outcry about this? and folks were telling me, so i called a couple folks and tried to go around and talk with them by little notes and charts and showing people stuff. and they were like, they were like, barbara, this is not the moment for this. in fact, people in the democratic leadership sent a notice to me by one of my staff persons to tell me to hush up, to just shut my mouth. and why? because they did not want to hear it. because they did not want to play and quote the race card. and so it was really ugly. and so mike, so you know how you commiserate? i do not know how you guys do. but i want to go sit down at the table in the middle of the house and start fussing. i am just fussing out loud. so mike said, heard me, my 25 year old son at that time, heard me fussing. and he came and he said, mom, what is wrong? and i said, oh, justin, you will not believe it. so i tell him the whole story. and he said, so you are having a communications problem. i said, big time. and he said, so what? i said, so he says, mom, he says, you know what? you need a map. i said, a map. he says, yes. he says, you need a really easy visual aid that people can immediately see it. i said, really? and he said, yes. and we could make an interactive. we could put it online. he can have his own hashtag. his own, his own, you know, handle. it could be on instagram. i said, really? and he said, he said, yes, mom. and i said, well, i will be doing so i want to work the next day. and i looked at my staff and i said, i need a map. and we created what became known as the map of shame. so the map of shame leads to all kinds of reparations. i mean, people are going like, what the hell? because i am running around with my big old map, you know, going around from place to place to mass bigger than i am. it is at least five, six feet tall. and showing people what is going on and educating folks, 150 speeches in 2012, 100 speeches in 2011. but in 2011, all the civil rights groups are beginning to respond because jesse jackson picks it up and starts and helps we put on some press conferences and start rolling with this thing. the media is acting stupid. they are like, oh, this is just a bit conspiracy theory. we are not going to waste our ink on this. and all this other stuff. so the bottom line is that we start organizing and the language groups find out that i have been trying to get to the attorney general. i have called this office and just a usual run and round. and you know, nothing's worse than a governmental run around. and because they pass you the every door and body. and then they pass you back. and you know, it is all this ugly stuff. so i am getting the stone, stone run around. so the good news is that the language groups, the asian groups and the latino groups had a meeting schedule with the attorney general to talk about section two, three, the language accommodation provisions of the voting rights act. and they called me up. and they said barbara, we hear that you are having trouble getting in. i said, yeah, you heard right. and then they said, well, what about, they said, we are got a 45 minute meeting. we are going to we are going to take that meeting. we are going to put you on as one of our attendees. and you bring your map, bring your little map now, not the big map, because they are not going to let you in there. and you are bringing the little maps. and we want you, we are going to only take up 25 minutes of our 45 minutes. we are going to give you 20. and sure enough, we all got into the room and came after they ran through the 25 minute agenda. and everybody's going like, you are finished. they said, oh, no. oh, no. uh, barbara's got something to say. and so i whipped out the map. and i am really serious. that is how you roll, right? i whipped out the map. i laid it on the table in front of attorney general holder. and i said attorney general holder. this is the map of shame. this is what is going down in this country right now. voter suppression. look at these lawsuits. look at these states that have all these horrible laws that they have been passing. justice department's been nowhere in this fight. i said attorney general, this is happening on your watch. your watch. he looked at me. and by the way, the minute i started speaking, the heads of his head started going lower and lower. and by the time i ripped out the map and they just put their heads on the table. i am really serious. i had never seen anything like it in my lifetime. and because he banged the table with his fists and he said, this is bullshit. he said, how has this happened? everybody's. so in other words, he then, because eric is just brilliant, he then started saying, listen, he says, i got this. i will take care of my litigation people. he said, i got this and i got my policy people. he said, but what i am hearing, barbara, is that there needs to be a public education campaign. and he says, let us talk about how we do that. john paden was still alive at the time. he is had an ldf and wade henderson and others. and so we had a great talk and that ended up with him giving the speech in that october, i believe. he gives a speech at the lincoln, i mean, at the lbj library in texas, in austin, texas. it becomes a big naturally publicized speech. justice starts intervening on all kinds of cases. and in the movement picks up. now i am still banned. let me be clear. am not nobody invited me to any white house meetings. i am not welcome. i am still unwelcome because you know, they do not want me to say what i say. and people are getting so mad and frustrated that they literally are saying to them when they call them, the come to the meetings, i am not coming. they say it is barbara invited and they will say, no, they sound not coming. all they will go to the meeting and they will say, i do not know why we are meeting because we need barbara here because she knows more about all this stuff that we all do combine. and so finally, finally after the 2012 election, i am unbanned. that is it. that is the story. and then i came and got you in some more trouble. but we got to go there. but you know, one of the links that i want us to think about. so part of what the attorney general could do at the time was to bar some of these changes from going into effect because the voting rights act was still on the table. and so that actually saved a lot of these elections. and now we see what happened without the voting rights act. there is a whole lot to talk about. that fifth vote, clarence thomas, that contributed to the voting rights act being taken from us and our contribution to putting him there. but that is a conversation for another day. what i am going with the lying. right. and without believing, i need a hymn. just going to say, if we believed in need of hill, then clarence thomas would not have been on the spring court. and we might still have the voting rights act. and we might not have trump in the white house. right. however, there is the question about how this vote suppression actually played out in the midterms, particularly in what happened in georgia. i want to tell you all that i have been teaching voting rights with barbara at ucla. and you know, she insisted that we teach a case that i had not been teaching. and it is all about how data was used to identify the voting practices of black people and the voting practices of white people, eliminating all those things that black people did, like early voting, right, and all souls to the polls. and retaining those things that white voters did. and they were explicit about asking about this information. so it was not like, oh gee, i wonder why this happened this way. they told us why they were doing it. and this is something that was, you know, finally struck down, but this is the level of vote repression. so there is that on that side. and then there is what we were talking about earlier, this 77% white woman thing. so, so, nia, i want to come back to you and just get a sense of the difference between the strategies that are being talked about. so we might think about one strategy being the go all the way blue strategy, right, dig deep, activate voters who have not been activated, really, really, you know, strike hard on some of the issues. and hope to just peel off four, five, six percent, although i mean, we do not need all of them. we just need four, five percent. so that is kind of the blue strategy. but then what seems to be talked about now is the goal purple strategy. so let us try to move the entire political discourse in the democratic party more to purple and perhaps borderline red to try to capture those trump voters, particularly those trump women. so is this an accurate sort of depiction of about the debate? yeah, i think that is right. those two strategies sort of deep blue or purple, you might even another way to look at it. it is sort of the rust belt versus the sun belt. the sun belt strategy being could a democratic candidate for president win a state like arizona. could you win north carolina as a democrat in the way that obama did in 2008? of course, he lost it in 2012. is georgia ready to come online as a democratic state that a democrat can win in 2020? and the other part of that is, and i do not even know if the idea for the purple strategy is so much about white women as it is about the idea of white working class voters, particularly in the rust belt, particularly sort of disaffected white men who do not have those same factory jobs. so the idea, somebody like biden can go, you know, scranton, guy from scranton, gryping scranton can go into those factories and into the rust belt and talk to those voters, beto or work for instance, saying he is going to go everywhere, right? he is going to go to the rural parts of iowa. he is going to go to des moines. he is going to go everywhere and talk to every voter. obviously did not work well for him in texas. he did not really get a lot of those voters. he was able to swell the voters in urban areas as did most democrats who ran, like stacey abrams, like gillum as well in florida. but yeah, i mean, those are the sort of two strategies. and i think you will see the candidates figure out what is the most viable strategy for them. kamal harris, probably more of a sunbelt candidate. and then somebody like biden would be the rust belt candidate. and i think it is sort of the ultimate idea for a lot of voters you talk to and a lot of democrats you talk to is that the ultimate outcome would be a purple ticket because biden would be at the top and kamal harris or some other woman would be at the bottom of that ticket. so, you know, we will see what happens. i think if you think about what did happen in 2016, basically 80,000 votes, right? in three states. so the idea that it was sort of a cataclysmic then in terms of the way people voted, not really, right? i mean, you think i had obama, obama won pennsylvania by like 600,000 votes. i mean, just sort of a massive reshaping of the map in a way that trump did not really do. so the question is, do you go for the people who stayed home? there was a drop off, obviously, an african american voters, a drop off in young voters as well, the sort of obama coalition. do you go after those voters or do you hope and pray that the voters who voted for obama in 2012 and then voted for trump in 2016? do you think you can go get those voters? the thing about those voters, though, is that there were republican voters in many ways. they had a republican voting history and then they flipped to obama and then they flipped back to trump. so this idea that somehow, you know, if you are joe biden or if you are better or work, i mean, maybe you can get those voters. i mean, it is proven that obama was able to activate a part of the democratic party that had not been activated and you wonder if that might be the easiest strategy. a couple of harrisville tested, bidinal test, a different sort of situation. the question was, did they stay mobilized? did they continue to mobilize them? there is a narrative that once they got activated, it is like, thank you very much. yeah, you know, we are moving on. i am going to go to questions in a moment. so raise your hands so we can get ready by i want to do two quick hits. data. so you have got something going now called black futures lab and help us think about how data can be used to enhance black well being through politics, through other means because we have basically been seeing data kind of being used against us. so what are you trying to do with data and what are some of the lessons that might come out of it? well, we are trying to turn data on a ted in a way. so we got tired after the 2016 election of people talking about black folks but not talking to us. and the result of that, again, is that when people are seeking our votes, they are talking about things in such a way that the control is the experience of those white working class, mythical voters that are not coming out to do the thing that black folks have been doing for a minute. and so we started a project called the black census project, which is the largest survey of black people done since reconstruction. and what we are, what we did is we asked black people all over the country, what are you experiencing in the economy, in our democracy, in our society, and what do you want to see for your future? we collected 30,000 more than 30,000 responses from liberals and conservatives, from lgbt folks and heterosexual folks, from rural and urban, from folks who are currently incarcerated and formerly incarcerated, folks who are us-born and born outside of the us, and will be releasing the responses next month. but the thing that is really interesting that you should know is that the number one piece of feedback that we got about this survey was that nobody has ever asked me these questions. and you will be interested to know also that many of the people who took our survey, even though they are spread out across the country, these are not people who were all surveyed by the same people. we built partnerships with more than 30 grassroots black-led organizations in 28 states across the country. everybody administered their survey the same, but it was not the same people administering the survey. not everybody got the same questions, right? like we really tried to diversify so that we could actually say, this is what black folks are saying across the country, and you would be surprised how similar it is even across the differences that we were intentional about. every single person is saying not only is nobody asking me what i need or what i want, but the other piece that i think is kind of fascinating actually is that people are saying, i prefer an organization that speaks to my experiences and speaks from my experiences. so from that 30,000 people who responded, 11,000 people said i want to stay engaged, meaning we did not require people to give us their contact information to participate. so a third of those people said, i need to stay engaged. that is pretty large if you know data, right? last thing i want to say about the survey and i think this piece is really important. what we started to understand very clearly from the responses is that it is not rocket science. what we did was take our community organizing hats and say how do we use this in service of our goals in 2020, which is to get rid of trump and trumpism, right? and to create more political space for us to transform democracy. how do we do that? we are not, you know, a big organization where you are old. we put $500,000 or more into the field, resource black organizations and we were able to touch a whole lot of folk. what if the democratic party did that? yes. how would politics change in this country? we also have started to think about, well, how do we influence candidates to think differently about how you engage with our communities? because frankly, it is not enough to keep saying things like tax cuts for the middle class or, you know, we support affordable healthcare. it is like when you talk to black women in the south, that is great. we support affordable healthcare too, but the attacks on healthcare are unique to black people in the south, right? like there is a uniqueness to how healthcare is being attacked. and if you are not addressing that as a candidate, you are not getting black folks behind you. that is a problem. so i know there is a lot of people that love bernie sanders. bernie sanders talks about inequality. bernie sanders is like deep in the like, let us get rid of corporations out of politics, like he is deep in all that, right? you would think that be something black folks would be down for, given the way that corporations are decimating black communities. he does not have a huge black following. why is that? because he only will talk about class. he will not talk about the relationship between race and class. he is just not good at it. it is something maybe he is trying to do, but that has an impact on politics. and when people are mad about what happened in the primary in 2016, people say, well, hillary stole it. or, you know, bernie was the person. it is like, cool. that can be true. what can also be true is black folks were not lining up at the door, pulling the lever for bernie sanders. and we have to ask ourselves why. and any successful campaign in 2020 is also going to ask itself, why are not black folks lining up behind me? and what can i do? that is why you have joe biden dangling this carrot saying, well, if i make stacy my vice president, and they are testing really, can we get black folks support? so it is something for us to pay attention to. i am dying to ask a question, but let me collect yours. and then i will attach mine to what you all ask. how about that? so let me see some questions. there are some right here. you all talked a lot about, like a lot of the like, like a series of who is been doing this work, and he is been doing it in ways that are comprehensive and like the world in terms of like talking about like black blackness, gender, all these types of things. and he was wondering if you can kind of speak to the way that like particularly something like the columbia heaver collective in the name itself, but also in the politics that it espoused the way that it kind of not only like talked about how we could move forward within the system, but also kind of separated from it, particularly in the way that it is grounded itself in socialism. and what that can look like for us to really see, like all of these candidates who are trying to get black voters, but that like the democratic party, but also the republican party and the entire system as a whole is not really checking for black people, but particularly black women. great, thanks. another question? right here. good evening. good evening. am i on? okay. i have often wondered when you speak of getting votes and being successful, is there a certain age group you go after? is there a certain geographic area? educational background? i have always wondered because i have been a voter ever since i had the opportunity to vote and was very proud to do so. so for one to feel that they are successful, who is it that you go after and what age group are you targeting to know that you are going to be successful? okay. so i think that question goes to you. let me throw some in. you all can sort of jump in if you want. we are in hollywood. we had a conversation last year about casting and black women. i just want to just kind of wonder if there is a connection between the role of colorism and just what looks like the part of the president and what does not. so let us imagine we were casting a movie. let us not we. hollywood was casting a movie. and it is about the first black woman president. my hunch is that nobody, you know, darker than regina king would even get called to come in. right? we expect that to play out in hollywood. we do not like it, but we know that is what goes down. we do not talk about that so much in politics. but yet there seems to be casting going on. i mean, when people talk about stacy abrams, does she look like a governor? to me, i am thinking, okay, are we having a casting issue here? is it playing a role? so i am interested in what you all think about how the, you know, handicapping of her chances might be reflective of some of the same stuff happening on the other side of the country that happens here. i am also interested in, and me, this might be for you, you report a lot about black voters and black politicians. do you have a sense of what a black woman's political agenda might look like? or what does politics look like if black women's, you know, priorities were not so marginalized. and i think that might also be something that goes to some of the things that you have introduced, even though you are not a majority black district, there are some things that you are introducing that would not happen if you were not there, right? and then finally, when we talk about backlash, we talk about internal backlash, but then there is external backlash. there is this black identity extremism stuff happening that, you know, the me, is not this co-intelpros stuff all over again? do people know this history? where is that conversation? and where does it need to go at this particular point? so these can be thought of as summaries and, you know, final words to our wonderful audience. so can we start with? sure. so we love voters like you. we love older voters who are well educated. you all tend to come out in special elections and all elections. and so when you are looking at getting as many votes as possible, you also, we have a ton of formulas and algorithms on schematics. and when you need to spread your money as far as possible, you go towards high-prepensity voters and they tend to be older educated voters. there is colorism. when i first ran for the los angeles community college board, it is an at-large seat as for the entire county of los angeles. i had conversations, very real conversations with my consultant about what slate mail i put my face on and what slate mail went out with just my name. sydney kamlager, you would not know who that person was. and i was unhappy with that strategy. and because it was an at-large seat for the entire county, i used that strategy and was successful. so in black communities, i put my face on so they knew that i was legit. and in other communities, i did not. and i just went with, you know, doing the things that you would normally do. and it is very real. and we have got to move the dial and have very uncomfortable conversations about why people still employ those strategies to get elected. here, as i mentioned, we have four black women in the legislature. but we are very powerful. we are doing things that are helping everyone. you have a sister who is chair of senate budget. you have a sister who is chair of budget sub five on public safety. you have a sister who has a select committee on incarcerated women. you have a sister who is bringing forth a bill on eliminating lethal force so that we are not having to deal with seeing our brothers and our sisters killed in the streets. because of black women, you have legislation and budget items that talk about funding black babies for wellness. and looking into implicit bias in the medical community in our courts and our law enforcement. you have black women talking about maternal health, you know, and looking at that data to figure out how we can stop some of these deaths from happening in stillbirths in communities of color. when we have to have hard conversations on the floors, black women are the ones who are tapped to say, can you exercise your voice of the moral compass of this house so that we can move the agenda forward? now, these might be issues we have. you have a legislation running through that talks about the protection of natural hair to protect braids and locks. yes. now, these are all laws. these are all pieces of legislation that are being carried and championed by the sisters that are in the legislation that are in the legislature in the body. now, we are also talking about a whole host of other things. but we also know that by fighting and getting these things passed, it will actually be helping everyone. but we are just using the lens from which we come to sort of elevate these conversations that have been marginalized and invisibleized or are only being talked about in homes of black homes. and if you are not there, it is not on the take. all right. barbara. yes. on the issue of the age group, what are the age groups that i really, really, really work hard with is the youngest voters because we forget that younger voters, if you do a, if you take a diagram and you mapped out the views, policy considerations and desires of people over 60, and you went to the opposite spectrum and that the politics policies and desires of people between 18 and 30, they are like polar opposites. and a lot of what is wrong is that that younger category needs to be voting as aggressively as the 60 and older's to our whole party, politics changes because what they want has no relationship to what is sitting in the white house right now has no relationship to what is sitting in the senate and controlling the senate. their policies are so radically different than what we consider here that we, i mean, and they are good on so many good issues. so i think that my commitment with my old butt has been the work with younger folks to really motivate as much voting as i can, as much registration, much advocacy. in fact, next week, i will be on college campuses talking with young activists about how to get our vote on and how to keep moving this movement because that is what is really needed. it is a very ignored cadre. the other thing i just want to say is that, you know, the one of the stats that most people missed, and in fact, when i gave that step to the cbc, reverend jesse jackson asked me to come and meet with him with the cbc, the congressional black caucus, and i said they were talking about strategies and concerns for 2018 at that time, and i said, well, the biggest concern is, you know, in 2016, you had two million less black ballots counted in the presidential election. it is the first decrease, and they voted ballots counted for blacks. now, when i say counted, you notice i did not say turnout, because a lot of black ballots get spoiled and get tossed out by a lot of this voter suppression nonsense. and so, you know, so, you know, we, and i talked about what that looks like and how it affected this election, not to mention something nobody wanted to talk about at that moment, which was the russian interference. a whole lot of black folks, you know, thought they were cool, because they were following folks on social media who were telling them, do not vote. you know, be cool, do not vote. or were telling them, you know, you better not go to the polls, because you are going to be arrested, whatever. they were doing everything they could to suppress the black vote, and lots of that was russian-based. they had black faces on those twitter accounts, black faces on those facebook accounts, black political organizational names, and all of those were run by russians. right now, ados, i am not going to get all into it, because i was going to tell you we got to have a war up in here. but, you know, but we know that this whole, you know, movement telling black folks that they have no alignment with immigrants, black immigrants. they have no alignment with blacks throughout the african diaspora, that we have nothing in common that we are only us bases ridiculous. w-a-b-dibors would just, oh my god, you know, all the others, you know, who fought, think about it, dorothy hype, you know, mean, every black leader in history who was watched something was internationalists, fetty little haymer, all of them, you know, we got to understand that this movement right now, and guess what? we have done some studies on where some of these accounts coming from. i am not talking about leadership, because i do not know much about the leadership. but a lot of those accounts that have been jumping on my case, because i talk about problems with, you know, killing people like maryl and brazil, and i talk about anti-black racism worldwide, and i talk about other stuff, and they have been jumping on me. oh, system, we need you to focus on the us, and we do not want you distracted, like i cannot think, right? you know, multi-dimensions, you know, just ridiculous. so, you know, so it is really important that we be careful, because we track some of those accounts back to russians. they are all russian-controlled. again, so they got a new strategy, that is to get up inside the reparations debate, mess with it when it is such a critical issue, destroy it, keep talking about republican candidates who people ought to be supporting, and dividing our unity among the african diaspora. it is sick. it is very bad. and we need to be very smart, that one of the things that we got to do this time is that we cannot get caught in that mess, and we got to be smarter than that. and do you want me to talk about harriet now? i will give you the last word on harriet. let me get the last two, and you take us home with harriet. all right. so, the black woman's agenda, i think is the question you have three. i think the sort of template for thinking about the black woman's agenda and what it might look like, and what a candidate might look like who has a candidacy focused on the black woman's agenda. it is stacey abrams. i mean, this race that she ran in georgia, i, you know, continue to be impressed by what she did there. and the folks who she got out to vote in that race were voters she had registered, right? i mean, that has been central to her identity central to what she wanted to do in georgia, and almost did in georgia. we will see if she runs either for senator in 2020 or governor again, in a rematch with brian kemp. but if you looked at the way in which she ran, she very much centered our own story. she was not afraid to talk about her blackness. she was not afraid to talk about her natural hair. she was not afraid to talk about her unique experiences as a black woman, and what that meant in terms of being in debt, right? and being, i mean, we all, you know, in black families often it is the black woman who has to multitask and is sort of the person who is the lynch pin financially and people are, you know, supporting other other family members. so she talked about that. she obviously talked about criminal justice for whom she talked about voting rights. she talked about public education and desing in public education, as well as expanding medicaid. so i think that is a race. i mean, if sac abrams ends up transforming georgia, either in, you know, in this next election in 2020 or if she runs again and wins, that has tremendous power in terms of what the country will look like in terms of these southern states where the majority of african americans are in states like alabama, states like south carolina. so that is a race where she ran as an unapologetically black woman in georgia. and so i think that is a race to do and almost one. and almost one. no, i think that is right. almost one. yes, yes, go ahead, alisa. wait a minute. she won. but brian camp stole the, stole it. all right. stole it. so, you know, balance disappearing voting machines with no plugs. i mean, people waiting in lines for three, four hours. i saw a whole thing. she won the, she won the race. she won the race. but why would go to the crime scene? it was a crime scene. we talked about from vote suppression to voter depressions. so, you know, how do we come, come back from that? so you go ahead to, talk just for a minute or two about the identity extremists. give us, give us your thought about where we go with that. and then we will have to wrap up. well, black identity extremists is a new designation for black lives matter activists. and it is not the first time that the government has come up with terms that identify black activists and organizers with terrorism or terrorists. but certainly, what we know historically about that strategy has been that it is been used against some of the most powerful black radical organizations like the black panther party. and it is been used to decimate and create chaos both within and between organizations by both creating suspicion about either who is working with the government, who is not working with the government, or it is also very much, i think, been used to create a climate of distrust of those movements themselves. and in a post-9-11 environment where terrorism is associated with religion and with extremism, it is not a surprise, right, that there would be an attempt to denigrate support for a movement that has pretty good support amongst black folks. and even some interesting support amongst white communities and certainly a lot of support among communities of color throughout the country. so what do we need to know about this? what we need to know is that we are under an administration that prioritizes and has been explicit about saying they prioritize law and order. and law and order really means for some because, you know, we have an administration that is breaking laws every single day. and at the same time, we should be aware that the increase of activism that people are being engaged in and are engaging in themselves to protect the rights that we do have left and defend them is game for targeting by labels like this. so it is being banned from the white house, right? i am also was banned under that administration. we will talk about that another time. we will talk about that another time. but it is also very much being targeted for what you are doing. and so many activists and organizers that i am in relationship to from the women's march to the climate movement are being visited by the fbi. are being questioned, are being surveilled? and that is not conspiracy theory. this is well documented, right? color of change, rana campaign to try to release the fbi records, right, of their surveillance and monitoring of black lives matter activists that there is been another kind of suit that is been filed to try to get them to release that information. so it is just important for us to understand that this work does not come without risk and the work that black women are doing to change the political landscape is not without risk. and frankly, right, it is not lost on me, right? that in this play, we saw harriet's heart be broken over and over and over again. and my goal and what i think about every single day is what kind of work do we need to be doing to mend those heart breaks? that is why we engage in politics, not because we care about democrats or republicans or whatever. it is like because we care about mending the heart breaks in our communities. yeah, you will see why i roll with these sisters right here. please join me in thanking alicia, nia, barbara, and the assemblywoman, candle, who does. let me also thank some folks. thank you, hammer, claudia, and your great staff for making this possible. and i want to give a shout out to apf staff. you see them running literally around with apf t-shirts, naima, madeline, julia, jira, michael, eden, lisa, and kevin. please join us tomorrow. we are taking up the question of say her name, the lives that should have been. we will be joined by many of the mothers of women who have been killed by the police. rhonda dormias is right here in the front row. many of you probably heard her on intersectionality matters. so they will be with us tomorrow. so please stay with us. barbara, you get the final word. quick word on harriet. well, most people do not know that harriet tubman would go to the white house all the time, because she was very close with abraham lincoln's wife. and she would go visit her. but every time she went to the white house, she refused to visit and meet with abraham lincoln himself. i mean, she had, i mean, scourge of visits. i mean, she would go there sometimes three and two and three times a week. but she would never meet with him. why? because she said his policies were wrong for black people. she did not like where he stood on, you know, post-emacipation. she had all kind of issues about equality. and she just what she refused, refused to meet with him. and sergerna truffa, of course, met with him. and there is a famous photo of the two of them. and she said that in some of her memoirs, when people interviewed her about this, about why would not she meet with lincoln, she said, well, sergerna got on me for that. and i told her that i did not want to be a photo op. this is way back. all right. so last, you know, when we are talking about using our political power, just think about how you stand on principle. and how that is so critical to any success. and black women, that is something we know how to do. thank you.