to continue to use it and really do. if you really do, someone will go get a couple more. okay. and as you think about what happens next in your life, because it is your turn, i hope that as you move into the next phase of your life and your success, that you consider three things that i am going to tell you. the first is to be unapologetic about who you are. thank you for that, lika. the second is to go places where you are not expected to be. yes. yes. yes. yes. yes. yes. yes. and the third is to do not be the last. yes. yes. yes. so i want to share with you a story of about three weeks ago, i was invited to go to this conference. it was a big, snooty conference, super expensive. it was put on by this very wealthy man who went to prison and then came out, decided to do good things. and so he had this conference and he had a salon that i was invited to. it was a private discussion that he was moderating with the board of supervisors. so i went and i listened. it was a room of about 30 people and not too many of us there. and so he was talking as much as he was asking shins and listening. and then at the end he said, you know, i am going to open it up to questions and answers. so i had a question. i was thinking, oh, i am going to ask this. you know, i raised my hand. i had a good question. i had a good question that kind of took into consideration everybody in the audience. and so he spoke, he had to go to questions. and he pointed to this man right in front of me who had not raised his hand. and he is still trying to train. what do you think about what we were talking about? do you have any comments or questions about, and i did not have a question. but that is a good point you raised. so i was like, well, maybe he did not see my hand. although i think it was the only one that i am going to raise again. so i raised it again. and he pointed to somebody in the back of the room. and he said, so, so friend, so this is another friend of mine. do you maybe have a question about what we have been talking about? da da da da da da da da. you asked the question. and the guy said, well, you know, you raised a good point. you know, and he asked his question. so i am looking at one of the board of supervisors, supervisor mark ridley thomas. and he is given the eye, and he is giving me the eye. and then he leans over to the moderator, and he is like, you know, the girl's got her hand up. so i raised my hand again. and he asked this light scam black sister sitting right in front of me, who also did not have her hand raised. so so and so, i know you are a friend of so and so. i do not know if you have a question, but what do you think about da da da da da da. and so she commented. and so by then other people who did not have questions came up with questions, and they raised their hand. and he asked all of them their questions until the very end when he came to me. so, you know, i had been stewing. i was so irritated. i was so irritated. i had been stewing. at the time he got to me, i said, you know, i am not going to ask that question. screw that question. i am going to ask the question that i really want to ask. and so i did. and my question was about gentrification, because they were to the board of supervisors. and i said, well, you know, how are you all going to manage gentrification in our communities? because you see these little businesses that pop up and then come in. our communities turn into safari destinations, but then people leave and where are the amenities. and so the supervisors said, well, that is a really great question. and they answered it. and then this moderator said, well, you know, i want to respond to that too. and he said, you know, it is not a gentrification that the trouble. it is reverse gentrification too. that happens with things like busing, busing into schools. and you know, you have these busing situations where you are busing poor kids into rich neighborhoods. and you know, the poor kids, they rough up the rich kids, but that is okay. they need it and the rich kids teach the poor kids stuff, and that is okay. but then what happens is the rich folks like me, we get upset and we leave. and then what happens to the community, it goes down. and so, you know, the only way that these schools, you know, get good and stay good is when you have these activists, parents of these poor kids, who really want to commit to the schools. and so that is what i think. and so, you know, i sat there and i was listening to him and i went through those five stages of grief, you know, shock, denial, anger. but you know, you eventually you land on acceptance. and i was thinking to myself, i said, you know, i specifically asked a question that was not directed to this man. and he specifically re-insorted himself back into the equation. and you know, that was when i had my acceptance moment. i said, you know, this is a great lesson for us all. because this was completely unapologized. he did not care. he was completely owning his perspective and his life. and you have to be that way too. thank you. you have to be unapologetic in who you are. you have to be unapologetic in where you come from. and you have to be unapologetic in what you are working with.