thank you and good afternoon. i am sorry. it is an absolute honor to speak to you today about junior achievement and the lessons i learned during the 2016 entrepreneurship summit within the walls of j.a. finance park. now, junior achievement's mission statement reads, to inspire and prepare young people to succeed in a global economy. and during my time, j.a., it was quite evident that they would fill every part of their credo. i came to junior achievement with so many ideas and questions about what i thought my future in business could look like. i would always been inspired by the concept of ordinary people doing extraordinary things through business and entrepreneurship held a certain player that i found captivating. my experience during the entrepreneurship summit helped to give my interest and ideas a shape and definition through hands-on experience. i networked. i thought critically. i was creative. i built my own personal brand. and as ceo of my company, i set out to solve one of the world's most pressing social and environmental issues. these are skills that not every student has the chance to learn and practice within the walls of a typical high school classroom. while participating in the entrepreneurship summit, i was challenged. from the first day, when we were all encouraged to break out of ourselves and to think like entrepreneurs, to the last day, when the marketing and business plans were due and the pitches had to be presented. i can remember a point during the summit when everyone was asked to get up and speak about themselves and why they came. everybody had a different story about how they got there. some wanted to explore their interest in entrepreneurship, while others had been to j.a. programs in the past. for me, it came from a thirst for challenge, not to mention a long-time fascination with the television show, shark tank. i had to create a product, pitch an idea, and live out what i would seen play out so many times over my television screen. when your achievement changed the very meaning of the word entrepreneurship for me, it went from a vague concept that was attached to dynamic figures like bill gates and steve jobs to a realistic and achievable goal and aspiration. from the very beginning, nothing, and i mean nothing was sugarcoded for us. we were treated like inexperienced teenagers. we were treated like aspiring entrepreneurs, and that is what made the programs so unique. they pushed us. they asked the tough questions. they challenged us to think big. i watched an idea become a potential product, and not the adult men to support it in oversaw progress. it was the students who created the solutions. we were challenged from the outset to come up with a creative and innovative solution to address the enormous food waste problem our country is facing. the problem became very real to us through our research, where we learned in the united states, more than 30% of our food, valued at 161 billion dollars annually, is wasted, while one in six americans struggled to get enough to eat. picture that we were expected to come up with a viable solution to the enormous social and economic problem, not as groups of friends from school, but as teams of five complete strangers. for most of us, our first reaction was a little bit of apprehension about how we would get a long and ease pre-sign groups, and maybe even a little fear about how we would meet the expectations that were placed upon us. with the help of icebreakers and team building exercises, we began to get to know and trust each other, and to form strong bonds. by the end of day one, my team had actually come up with two possible ideas that we ended up merging. our solution led us to our compromise that has led us to our solution, geo, an acronym for grocery and exploration organizer. geo is an affordable software package that reduces the amount of food waste by tracking exploration dates and alerting stores when food is close to expiring. this software would allow stores to be proactive in utilizing the time before food goes bad, through instant alert notifications about expiring products in the shelves that can either be donated, repurposed, or sold at a discount, thereby producing waste and potentially increasing profits. after countless hours developing our financials and business plan and perfecting our pitches, we were ready for the sharks. and though we did not win the challenge, every member of my team took home a win in our hearts, knowing that we had done something amazing, and then from that moment forward, we would look at this and just throw different, more experienced ones. as you all are keenly aware, the volunteer is what sets j.a. in part, and it is truly what set my experience apart. it was a privilege to get up close and personal with three amazing leaders in our community. they taught us invaluable lessons about building a brand, thinking critically about a product, and perhaps most importantly, selling it. these are lessons that cannot be googled, but can only come from being coached and mentored by people with many years of business and leadership experience. as i reflected on this experience, i was able to connect the dots between the knowledge and skills that i have acquired in school and their relevance in real world business situations. throughout the course of the summit, i had to draw upon my brilliant and oral communication skills, as well as my research and analytical skills. as i began my journey through high school, i would continue to hone these skills with the greater appreciation for how they will enable me to succeed in a business career. i cannot thank junior achievement enough for providing me with the opportunity to buy my passion in business. it gave me a glimpse of my future and showed me that i could start to prepare for it today. i learned about the importance of leadership and the beauty of teamwork. i learned that great results occur when people share ideas freely and are supportive and give it a platform to begin to make their ideas a reality. j.a. has inspired me to take action on my dream, and it is the spark that is ignited by flame. thank you for what you do to transform j.a. from a simple nonprofits mission into a major world movement each and every day. i think i speak for the millions of j.a. kids around the globe when i say, we will take these skills and do something with them. we will not let you down. thank you.