[congressional record volume 167, number 100 (wednesday, june 9, 2021)] [senate] [pages s4012-s4013] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] anniversary of the pulse nightclub shooting mr. scott of florida. madam president, nearly 5 years ago, our state, nation, the city of orlando, and hispanic and lgbtq communities were attacked, and 49 innocent and beautiful lives were lost. it was an evil act--an act of terrorism--designed to divide us as a nation and strike fear in our hearts and minds but instead we came together; we supported each other; and we persevered. we proved to the world what we in florida already knew: floridians are resilient. the days i spent in orlando following the shooting will always be with me. i talked to many parents who lost their children. i went to funerals and wakes. and i sat in hospital rooms. as a father and grandfather, it was one of the hardest things i have ever had to do. it was heartbreaking. but in this horribly dark time, the selfless courage of so many, from community members to law enforcement, to healthcare workers, provided a sense of hope. this incredible strength, love, and bravery lifted up orlando and the state of florida and helped us begin to rebuild. this week, on the fifth anniversary of this unthinkable tragedy, the state of florida comes together to honor the lives lost too soon. and we vow to always stand up and fight against evil and hatred in this world. now i yield the floor to my colleague from florida, senator rubio. mr. rubio. most americans remember that horrifying day 5 years ago. i certainly do. i remember it was a morning, and i started getting text messages that something horrifying had happened in our home state. as we turned on the news, we could see that it already had been the deadliest attack on american soil since september 11 of 2001. and the full horror of that day, of that night, came into focus, as i remember jumping in my truck and driving 3 hours to be on the scene. and it would be a few more days, or a few more hours, before we learned that it was an attack that was inspired by an ideology of hatred by an individual inspired by--who had pledged allegiance to a foreign terrorist organization, and in that context appeared there on that evening. it was an evening of tragedy. it was, as senator scott mentioned, latin night at the pulse nightclub. this was a well-known nightclub in the lgbtq community in central florida. and one would think no one should ever be--the last thing someone is worried about when they go out for a night with their friends is that they are going to be attacked by a radical jihadist terrorist in the united states. we had seen similar attacks in london and france. and the realization that that could happen in florida, just down the street from a small business furniture store whose owners i had gotten to know shook everyone, shook me. like most terrorist attacks, it sought not only to bring death but division and fear, to terrorize; and, clearly, there is a tremendous amount of pain that 5 years later is still there. but from it, what also occurred was that it brought floridians together, particularly those in central florida--first, hand in hand to grieve and then to preserve the memory of those whose lives were lost. the outpouring of love and support came not only from florida but from americans from all across the united states who shared in our grief and drew inspiration from the state's resilience. five years later, the process of mourning continues. the process of remembrance continues, but so, too, is orlando as united as it was 5 years ago. it is a reminder to us that even with [[page s4013]] all the challenges and threats we face, the threat of a radical, hateful ideology that can inspire people living here to take such horrifying actions, is something we should remain vigilant about. and i want to thank my colleague senator scott for allowing me to partner with him on this resolution to remember not just that tragic day and to support the national pulse memorial but also to extend our continued condolences to those who suffered so greatly on that evening and to remind a nation of how we must remain vigilant against those who seek to terrorize mr. scott of florida. mr. president, i want to thank my colleague from florida for participating in this with me. it was a devastating day 5 years ago for all of us in florida and around the nation. today, i am requesting all my colleagues join us to honor the memory of the 49 lives lost and come together to say their nation will always stand against hate and evil in this world. i will be asking consent for the senate to pass a resolution honoring the memory of the victims of the heinous attack of the pulse nightclub, cosponsored by my colleague from florida, senator rubio, and legislation designating the location of the pulse nightclub in orlando as the national pulse memorial to serve as a tribute to the victims and a reminder for us to always stand for love and kindness over hate and evil in this world. it is also cosponsored by my colleague from florida, senator rubio, and my colleague from california, senator padilla. i hope my colleagues join us in the effort today. ____________________