[congressional record volume 165, number 153 (monday, september 23, 2019)] [senate] [page s5627] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] recognizing melao bakery mr. rubio. mr. president, as chairman of the senate committee on small business and entrepreneurship, each week i highlight a small business that displays the unique entrepreneurial spirit found throughout our country. it is my privilege to recognize a florida small business that demonstrates consistent hard work, a commitment to excellent customer service, and a desire to give back to the florida community. today, it is my honor to name melao bakery as the senate small business of the week. founded in 2009, melao bakery is a family-owned and operated restaurant run by eduardo colon and denisse torres. originally from puerto rico, eduardo and denisse have created a place where families can enjoy traditional puerto rican cuisine in kissimmee, fl, a city many puerto ricans call home. melao has grown from a small bakery in central florida with seven employees into a full-menu restaurant employing more than 150 people at its two locations in kissimmee and orlando. melao bakery is known for its commitment to exemplary customer service and for providing an authentic, traditional experience for its customers. eduardo and denisse arrived in florida 17 years ago from vega baja, pr. in vega baja, the couple owned a bakery but made the decision to move to florida, with their 1-year-old son, in search of new opportunities. when eduardo and denisse settled in kissimmee, they did not move to open the bakery immediately; eduardo studied to pass truck driving exams, and through hard work, he was able to establish his own heavy transport company. melao bakery not only provides delicious pastries and cuisine, but it also serves as a meeting place for local hispanics. they have since expanded their vision through the acquisition of the shopping center where melao bakery is located. eduardo and denisse's business has been honored for maintaining a strong sense of hispanic heritage by the grassroots organization, the libre initiative. in 2012, melao bakery was also recognized by the kissimmee chamber of commerce as the first hispanic business to win its annual small business of the year award. in 2014, melao bakery was presented with the governor's business ambassador award for its leadership in creating employment opportunities in central florida. additionally, melao bakery has won awards for the quality of its food, such as best latin restaurant in the osceola community. eduardo and denisse have made significant efforts to better the lives of those in their community, both in florida and in puerto rico. after hurricane irma hit puerto rico in 2017, eduardo and denisse donated dozens of generators to help survivors get their businesses back up and running. their dedication to preserving the culture and heritage of puerto rico in central florida has created a loyal customer base and has made melao bakery a community staple. melao bakery is a shining example of how dignified work can lead to grassroots engagement and successful business expansion. as we celebrate hispanic heritage month, i am proud to highlight melao bakery for their dedication to florida's hispanic community. ____________________