[congressional record volume 167, number 216 (wednesday, december 15, 2021)] [senate] [pages s9189-s9190] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] unanimous consent request--executive calendar mr. lee. if confirmed as deputy u.s. trade representative, maria pagan would be responsible for negotiating details of any waiver of the trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights agreement, also known as the trips agreement. i have concerns with ms. pagan's nomination. therefore, i intend to object to that until the biden administration has given me some basic commitments regarding the administration's position on waiving the trips agreement, particularly related to some of the proposals being pushed by various countries. as a quick recap, the trips agreement represents a vital element of international trade law protecting the intellectual property rights of u.s. businesses, individuals, and entrepreneurs. waiving the protection of these rights for covid-19 drugs, vaccines, and treatments under the notion of some sense of international altruism will not advance a universal solution to the covid-19 pandemic. instead, any proposal to waive ip protections would create a disincentive for continued research, development, and distribution of the covid-19 treatments or drugs. that could mean fewer healthcare options and advancements as the virus continues to mutate into new variants with degrees of resistance to existing remedies. as always, anytime you weaken one property right, it spills over into other areas. we would not expect this to become contained to the covid- 19 universe. additionally, u.s. companies would be less likely to introduce their product to wto-member countries not enforcing ip protections. that could mean fewer options and less access for our neighbors, not more. intellectual property rights provide the grounds for businesses to take risks in turning novel ideas into concrete goods and services. a business [[page s9190]] that knows its property is secure and will not be surreptitiously confiscated by government action can fully engage in developing the innovation that drives markets. today, in stating my objections, this is all i am asking for. i have no concerns with this individual in particular; rather, with the authority that she might wield and the assurances i am wanting to receive from the administration on that authority, some assurance that this administration will not unilaterally wipe out intellectual property protections that have resulted in the vast majority of covid- 19 remedies the u.s. currently enjoys and have also served millions of others globally. these are the things that are on the table. all i want is some assurance from the administration. the presiding officer. the senator from oregon. mr. wyden. madam president, i ask unanimous consent, notwithstanding rule xxii, if applicable, at a time to be determined by the majority leader in consultation with the republican leader, that the senate proceed to executive session to consider executive calendar no. 547, maria l. pagan, of puerto rico, to be a deputy united states trade representative (geneva office), with the rank of ambassador; that there be 10 minutes of debate, equally divided in the usual form on the nomination; that upon the use or yielding back of time, the senate proceed to vote without intervening action or debate on the nomination; that if the nomination is confirmed, the motion to reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with to intervening action or debate; that no further motions be in order to the nomination; that the president be immediately notified of the senate's action and the senate then resume legislative session. the presiding officer. is there objection? mr. lee. i object. the presiding officer. objection is heard. mr. wyden. madam president, there has been an objection. let me be very brief. we have a lot to do still tonight. as the new covid variant surges around the globe and threatens americans here at home and millions around the world, the united states needs to do everything possible to get shots in arms, including having the right people in geneva to find solutions to the availability and distribution of vaccines. covid continues to be a deadly crisis, and we should be working in every way possible to make sure that the biden team has a group that can reach agreement on a trips waiver and any other trade-based solutions. i look forward to continuing efforts to talk with my colleague from utah. this is urgent business. we have to get it worked out. i yield the floor. the presiding officer. the senator from utah. mr. lee. to reiterate here, all i want is some assurance. i appreciate my friend and colleague from oregon understanding my basic concern here. it is not an unreasonable concern. all i want is some assurance from the administration that it is not going to wipe out intellectual property protections. that would not be right. they know it is not right. they give me those assurances, we can move on. the presiding officer. the senator from oregon. mr. wyden. i suggest the absence of a quorum. the presiding officer. the clerk will call the roll. the legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll. mr. rubio. madam president, i ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered.