[congressional record volume 166, number 106 (tuesday, june 9, 2020)] [senate] [page s2806] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] recognizing pinecrest bakery mr. rubio. madam president, as chairman of the senate committee on small business and entrepreneurship, each week i recognize a small business that exemplifies the american entrepreneurial spirit at the heart of our country. it is my privilege to recognize a family- owned small business that is not only a miami staple, but has helped feed thousands of floridians impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. this week, it is my pleasure to honor pinecrest bakery, of pinecrest, fl, as the senate small business of the week. in 2012, efrain valdes and joel rodriguez founded pinecrest bakery. years earlier, these longtime friends met in miami's little havana and formed a bond over their shared cuban heritage and love for its cuisine. when efrain's family moved to pinecrest, he noticed a lack of cuban restaurants in their new neighborhood. seeing this as an opportunity, efrain and joel opened the original pinecrest bakery in december 2012. their welcoming atmosphere and delicious food proved a hit, with lines regularly forming out the door. soon, pinecrest bakery expanded its hours to become miami's premier 24-hour cuban bakery. eight years later, pinecrest bakery expanded to 17 locations, with 3 more on the way. their original menu of cuban coffee and pastries now includes meal and catering menus and a food truck. pinecrest bakery is earning accolades for its delicious cuisine and emerging as a leader in the local business community. the business remains family-owned, with several members of the valdes and rodriguez families serving in key leadership and food production roles. additionally, their strong sense of family has built a tight-knit and supportive team. like many other small businesses, pinecrest bakery stepped up to help their community during the coronavirus pandemic. the shortage of essential goods in stores prompted them to sell their bulk supplies of milk and eggs directly to customers. in mid-march, pinecrest bakery ramped up their existing partnership with farm share, a nonprofit organization that connects floridian farmers with surplus produce to local businesses and organizations for distribution. using its pinecrest location as a distribution center, pinecrest bakery provided approximately 200,000 pounds of free food to nearly 10,000 families in south florida. the american legion recognized pinecrest for donating hot meals to healthcare workers and first responders. when the u.s. small business administration launched the paycheck protection program--ppp--efrain and joel applied immediately. the ppp provides forgivable loans to impacted small businesses and nonprofits who maintain their payroll during the covid-19 pandemic. recently, pinecrest bakery received their ppp loan, which has enabled them to keep their employees paid and continue their work to feed south florida. pinecrest bakery is a remarkable example of how small businesses can leverage local connections to support their communities in times of crisis. i commend their work with farm share and leadership in the miami area. congratulations to efrain, joel, and the entire team at pinecrest bakery. i look forward to watching your continued growth and success in south florida. ____________________