[congressional record volume 167, number 157 (monday, september 13, 2021)] [senate] [page s6448] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] remembering richard kinkoff iii mr. rubio. madam president, last weekend, we lost a truly selfless public servant when richard kinkoff iii, from my office, passed away. he joined our office as an intern in 2013, and he literally never left. he kept showing up after his internship had ended until we finally had to hire him full time to work with us because he kept showing up every single day. and he kept at it because he wanted to serve. he wanted to serve the people of florida. that is exactly what rich did for the past 8 years in leading our team and graciously responding to hundreds of thousands of constituents' inquiries. i think it is important to note that it is tedious work, but, for him, it was not a formula or an exercise in checking boxes. he was passionate about that kind of work. he took time to listen to the callers who would call. he would read the emails. he sat down and talked to constituents, and then he worked with others on our team to get them answers. he believed in his work. he never let the process take the purpose out of the work that he did or that the team was doing. two years ago, his work was recognized when our office received the democracy foundation's award for constituent service, an award that we would not have received had he not been part of our team. but for rich, honestly, it was not about recognition; it was about service. it is no surprise that he took a particular interest in veterans' issues. he treated every constituent case with the respect it deserved, but he had a special passion for making sure our selfless veterans were not left behind or forgotten in the bureaucracy. that is the one word that, i think, keeps coming back as we talk in our office with the staff, and it keeps coming back as we have reflected on his life over the past week--selfless. rich had a pickup truck, a big pickup truck, which made him pretty popular with colleagues, with friends, with friends of friends. people need to move, and if you have a truck, you know everybody always wants to borrow it. rich being rich, he was always there for them. if your car broke down, rich was there. if you were an intern in need of career advice, rich was there. if you needed a ride from the airport, rich was there. he would even pull himself away from a tampa bay lightning game to lend a helping hand. now, look. i have no doubt that rich would be embarrassed by all of this because it was never about him or for him. in a letter to the christian church in philippi, paul and timothy wrote: do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit. rather, in humility, value others above yourselves. those who knew him can say that rich answered that call time and again. and now, for reasons that we cannot explain or know or understand, he has answered a different call, but i do know that we are all better for knowing him, and so are countless others who never knew his name. he was selfless. he was noble. he was a decent man. and as we honor and celebrate his life, let us hope to follow in his example in all that we do here. i yield the floor. the presiding officer. the senator from new jersey. mr. menendez. madam president, first, i ask unanimous consent that i be permitted to complete my remarks before the scheduled 5:30 p.m. vote. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered.