[congressional record volume 163, number 80 (tuesday, may 9, 2017)] [senate] [pages s2843-s2844] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] venezuela mr. rubio. mr. president, i rise to speak briefly this afternoon on the ongoing crisis in venezuela. there is a growing interest in the matter here among my colleagues in the senate and the white house and other places--certainly, in the press--and thankfully so. this has been going on now for a significant period of time. just to put it in context, a lot of times, when we talk about these sorts of showdowns around the world--these sorts of internal strife-- there is this notion that there is this government in place and there is this group that does not like the government and that they are arguing with each other about the future of the country. what is interesting in venezuela is that both the opposition and the ruling party are in government. the government, obviously, at the presidential level is controlled by someone who has turned himself into a dictator. he is a successor of hugo chavez's--he is the president, nicolas maduro--and those who surround him. then there is the national assembly that is elected by the people of venezuela, the majority party in their legislative branch. what has happened over the last year and a half is that the president of venezuela, maduro--the now dictator--has nullified the legislative branch. he basically refuses to recognize the laws they have passed and has stopped allowing transfers. so, basically, today, those in the national assembly in venezuela are not getting paid. they have no funds for offices, and they have no funds for material. they will pass a law, and those laws are ignored. that is the ongoing crisis. the second part of it is that, under their constitution, venezuela's constitution, if you had collected a certain number of signatures by december of this year, by the end of the year, they had to hold a referendum on the president, a recall referendum. they refused to certify the signatures even though the people who collected them turned in four times as many signatures as were necessary. the third is that they are supposed to have a governor and legislative elections this year in venezuela. maduro has canceled those, and there is no telling, but it does not seem as though they are going to have a presidential election either. here is the bottom line: the strife in venezuela that is going on today can be solved by having an election of the people of venezuela, by basically following their existing constitution, but that is not what they have allowed to have happen. on the contrary, not only are they not allowing these elections to happen, but anyone who protests against them has been jailed; press has been kicked out of the country; cnn has been kicked out of venezuela, as an example. now we are seeing reports of there being escalating violence in the streets, and it is extraordinary. what is interesting, though, is that fissures are beginning to develop. the message we send here today--first of all, to those who are in the streets who are fighting for democracy and for following the law and having elections in venezuela--is that we stand with you. we will never let your cause fall, and we will never accept these ridiculous moves that maduro is now taking to rewrite the constitution, yet again, through a flawed and fraudulent process. the second message we have is to the people in the venezuelan government who do not want to be a part of what is happening. we now see examples of the attorney general, luisa ortega, who is part of the maduro government and has been largely friendly but who, lately, has begun to break away from the government, going so far as to criticize the government's escalating repression. you see it increasingly among the rank and file in the national guard of venezuela, who are all armored up like g.i. joe, facing down these unarmed protesters, but on the other side of the protests are their mothers, their fathers, their brothers, their sisters, their wives, their husbands, and their friends and neighbors. what is really troubling now is that these armed groups--irregular groups, these militias--that maduro has armed and trained with the help of cuban intelligence have spun completely out of control. these groups are going around randomly beating people up, setting up roadblocks, and committing all sorts of acts of violence. they are not uniformed. these are collectives, as they call them--basically, these armed militias--outside of the government who are funded, created by maduro and who have now begun to spin out of control, even to the point at which they, themselves, i believe, are potentially threatened by these groups who, in addition to funding themselves through the government, have found other ways to fund themselves through illicit means, including through street crime. this situation is reaching a breaking point, and i think it is an important moment to remind the men and women in uniform in the national guard of venezuela that their job is to protect the people of venezuela, not to oppress them; that their job is to protect and uphold the constitution of that country, not to cancel it out; to remind them that the men and women on the other side of these protests are their families and their fellow venezuelans. now the time has come to tell the men and women in the venezuelan government--many who, perhaps, sympathize with hugo chavez and maduro up to a point--that they do not want to go down with this ship, that they do not want to wind up on the list of people who have participated in this crackdown and in this oppression. i hope that my colleagues here will continue to work hard. i am encouraged by the amount of bipartisan support that we have begun to create on the issue of venezuela. i know my colleague, senator cardin, and i have worked out bipartisan legislation that urges the maduro regime to release all of its political prisoners and express support for a solution to the crisis. i urge all of my colleagues to join me in cosigning this bipartisan legislation. we also support the administration's efforts at the oas to continue to work [[page s2844]] with regional governments in argentina, colombia, mexico, peru, chile, brazil, and others who have taken heed of this issue and have played an extraordinary leadership role in raising this in international forums. beyond that, i encourage the administration to continue to look for names to sanction. they have the authority under the law--passed not once but twice by this congress--that allows them to identify specific individuals within the venezuelan government who are stealing the money of the venezuelan people and committing grotesque human rights violations and have real estate and other personal property and cash deposits and bank accounts around the world from what they have illicitly stolen from the people of venezuela. here is my closing point: maduro's government is now relying on credit from all parts of the world in order to continue to sustain itself. to any private investment banks and any of these large global banks that are thinking about lending money to venezuela, you are abetting this regime and its repression, and you will be singled out and named if you participate in continuing to lend them money to fund this. to the russian government, i say that you are not going to get your money back. these guys cannot pay you back. it is the same for the chinese government. if you continue to lend money to the maduro regime, they will not be able to pay you back, and you are going to be embarrassed. the chinese government is going to be embarrassed if it continues to loan money to venezuela. they cannot and will never pay you back. the russians cannot afford to continue to lend money to a government that will not pay them back either. i urge them to look at that very carefully before they continue to embarrass themselves by lending out their people's money that they will never get back. this is an important issue. it is in our own hemisphere, and the answer lies one election away. if only the maduro regime would follow its laws and its constitution, venezuela would be on a better path that its people would choose. the alternative to this situation will continue to spiral out of control. we in this chamber and in this country will continue to be on the side of the men and women who seek nothing but democracy and seek nothing but peace and reconciliation and a way forward for this nation, which has a deep history of democratic order. mr. president, i yield the floor. ____________________