[congressional record volume 166, number 181 (thursday, october 22, 2020)] [senate] [pages s6400-s6401] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] recognizing scotlynn usa division, inc. mr. rubio. mr. president, as chairman of the senate committee on small business and entrepreneurship, each week i recognize a small business that exemplifies the american entrepreneurial spirit at the heart of our country. it is my privilege to recognize a small business with award-winning innovation that provides high-quality service and is active in its community. this week, it is my pleasure to honor scotlynn usa division, inc., of fort myers, fl, as the senate small business of the week. ryan carter founded scotlynn usa division, inc., in 2010, the year after the great recession ended. ryan worked for a cincinnati freight brokerage firm and identified a market demand for reliable, customer- focused delivery of time-sensitive perishable goods. together, ryan and his younger brother, brad, established scotlynn usa in fort myers as a transportation and logistics provider in southwest florida. the business grew quickly, moving in 2012 from their original 900-square- foot office into their current 12,000-square-foot building. today, scotlynn usa has grown into an award-winning logistics firm operating a truck fleet and freight brokerage that distributes perishable foods nationwide. ryan serves as the executive vice president, and brad is in a managerial role. they foster a sense of community among their employees, resulting in high employee retention rates, and they prioritize hiring veterans. ryan serves on a number of nonprofit boards and volunteers with several organizations, including big brothers big sisters, habitat for humanity, and st. matthews house. uniquely, scotlynn usa provides its employees 16 hours of annual leave to volunteer with local organizations. scotlynn usa has received industry recognition for its entrepreneurship and innovation. notably, it received early help from the florida small business development center--sbdc--located at florida gulf coast university, fgcu. they provided scotlynn resources, including mentorship, business planning, and access to capital advice to help them establish their business. in 2019, the florida sbdc at fgcu awarded ryan the distinguished entrepreneur of the year title. this year, ryan was named as the 2020 u.s. small business administration--sba--florida small business person of the year and was named first runner-up for [[page s6401]] the sba 2020 small business person of the year. like many floridian small businesses, scotlynn usa rose to the occasion and supported their community during the coronavirus pandemic. working with feeding america, they raised funds for charity and distributed more than 3,500 free meals. partnering with community cooperative and midwest food bank, scotlynn usa donated logistical support and truck space, enabling these two food banks to distribute approximately 2 million pounds of food to floridians in need. as an essential business, scotlynn usa managed to stay open, keep their employees safe, and play a key role in keeping our nation's supply chains running smoothly. in april 2020, the sba launched the paycheck protection program--ppp--a small business relief program i was proud to author. the ppp provides forgivable loans to impacted small businesses and nonprofits who maintain their payroll during the coronavirus pandemic. thanks to their ppp loan, scotlynn usa was able to retain 214 jobs and continued serving their customers and community. scotlynn usa exemplifies the critical role that small businesses play in investing in community development. their leadership and commitment to their customers and employees is commendable, especially during these unprecedented times. congratulations to ryan, brad and the entire team at scotlynn usa division, inc. i look forward to your continued success in florida and throughout the united states. ____________________