the indie gop stay convention is this weekend and things could get competitive. the spotlight is on the contest between incumbent senator john hoveon and rick becker. josh manny joins us to break down the contest that is turning out to be historic for the indie gop as we lead local. that is right, brooke. hoveon has easily won the republican convention delegates endorsement first as governor in 2000 and later as u.s. senator, but as hoveon seeks his third term as the senior senator of north dakota, things might not be as easy. and that is due to the far right growing faction of the north dakota republican party, the bostiad caucus, and their leader, ultra conservative plastic surgeon and businessman, rick becker. there are more than 2,300 registered delegates at this year's convention. it is the most there has ever been. bostiads are stacking the convention with as many people on their side as possible. the surge in the interest and the number of delegates was from people just coming out of the woodwork saying, i have not been involved in politics before. i am very concerned about the direction our nation is going. i want to be part of a change. and they came like a tidal wave. and that took the hoveon campaign off guard. and so then they are going out and saying, oh my gosh, we have to do something or we are going to lose this thing. so then they are recruiting as many candidates as they can. the biggest convention we had before was in 2000. when i first ran for governor, we had 2000 delegates in 2000. so 2,300, you know, that is exciting. a lot of people involved. our teams worked hard, done a great job. obviously, we recognize our opponents working hard too. but this was the process. and so we will have a big day tomorrow and looking forward to it. the party already selected perry schaeffer as the chair of the convention, but that could change. there is speculation that the side supporting becker wants to place one of their leaders as the chair of the convention. if the side supporting becker is able to place one of theirs as the chair, it is expected they will try to change election rules so that the convention is nominating and not just endorsing. when you look across the nation, states generally have either a convention or a primary. and i tell my colleagues, my legislative colleagues from other states that, well, you go to the convention. and then if you get endorsed, you go to the primary. but the people that did not get endorsed can still go to the primary. they only need to get 300 signatures. they are shy. it does not make any sense to them. and it does not make any sense to me. and to most people, because why have both? for that kind of rule, change, you have to have that in. 15 days at a time. everybody knew that. so that is like changing the rules in the middle of the game. and that is not how it works. people are here. they get, they all get a vote. so let us have, let us do it straight up the way we have always done it. that is democracy and action. we are here. let us have the votes straight up. let us follow the rules. either way, the situation is very fluid. we should expect fierce debate and good old fashioned bare knuckles politics. the gavill drapes at 11 a.m. on saturday, reporting from the bismarck event center for kx news. i am josh menni. thank you, josh, for that report.