[congressional record volume 170, number 16 (monday, january 29, 2024)] [house] [pages h262-h264] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] caroline chang post office mr. donalds. madam speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 3728) to designate the facility of the united states postal service located at 25 dorchester avenue, room 1, in boston, massachusetts, as the ``caroline chang post office''. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 3728 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. caroline chang post office. (a) designation.--the facility of the united states postal service located at 25 [[page h263]] dorchester avenue, room 1, in boston, massachusetts, shall be known and designated as the ``caroline chang post office''. (b) references.--any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the united states to the facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``caroline chang post office''. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from florida (mr. donalds) and the gentleman from maryland (mr. raskin) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from florida. general leave mr. donalds. madam speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on this measure. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from florida? there was no objection. mr. donalds. madam speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. madam speaker, i rise in support of this bill, which would name a boston, massachusetts, post office for caroline chang. caroline was born and raised in boston's chinatown and started her career serving as an interpreter for community members seeking medical care. in 1970, caroline chang was appointed by the mayor of boston as the manager of chinatown's little city hall, where she continued her work advocating for the community. she went on to achieve a law degree from suffolk law school and to work for the united states department of health and human services for more than 30 years. caroline chang also helped establish the south cove community health center, the chinese historical society of new england, and the asian american civic association. i encourage my colleagues to support this legislation honoring this dedicated civil servant, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. raskin. madam speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i rise in strong support of h.r. 3728 to designate the facility of the u.s. postal service located at 25 dorchester avenue, room 1, in boston, massachusetts, as the caroline chang post office. this legislation, introduced by my distinguished colleague, representative pressley, recognizes the contributions of caroline chang, who was born and raised in boston's chinatown. i did not know her, but i have learned from my colleague that she was a trailblazer, a passionate advocate for her community, and a very devoted public servant. madam speaker, i yield such time as she may consume to the gentlewoman from massachusetts (ms. pressley). ms. pressley. madam speaker, i thank chair comer and representative raskin for advancing this legislation. i also thank my massachusetts colleagues and our delegation for the unanimous support of this effort. i rise today to recognize caroline chang, a community builder and trailblazer who was a tireless advocate for the massachusetts seventh. caroline remains one of the greatest public servants that boston and our commonwealth has ever seen. she dedicated her life to serving the local chinatown community and effecting lasting and positive change. at a young age, caroline lost her father and began serving as a translator for her mother, while also looking after her two younger brothers and sister. her willingness to care for her family extended to all of boston's chinatown where community members would often rely on caroline's assistance when seeking medical care. at the time, culturally congruent care was not an option for most asian americans in boston. whenever a neighbor needed to visit the doctor, caroline would be at their side as a translator, as an advocate, and as a friend. her early sense of purpose and community manifested into a love of organizing and movement building that remained with her as she went on to fight in all levels of government against discrimination faced by asian americans. from managing chinatown's little city hall to her history-making tenure in the u.s. department of health and human services, office for civil rights, she always made sure her home community had a seat at the table. the massachusetts seventh, which i am proud to represent, is a vibrant and diverse district, and i am especially proud to represent this district as a member of the congressional asian pacific american caucus. it is home to nearly 100,000 asian american and pacific islanders. in a testament to her ability to bring people together, caroline routinely gathered chinese, japanese, korean, vietnamese, laotian, cambodian, and other nationalities from the boston area for dinners and events under the theme of asian american unity. she bridged gaps within and across marginalized groups, working in solidarity to form several community-based organizations that continue to serve chinatown and greater boston today--the asian community development corporation, the asian american civic association, and the greater boston chinese golden age center, to name only a few. inspired in part by her early work as a translator, caroline also helped found the south cove community health center, the first community health center to provide culturally congruent care to asian americans in the city of boston. today, it is the largest asian primary care provider in the entire commonwealth of massachusetts. my bill, h.r. 3728, would designate the post office at 25 dorchester avenue, which is walking distance from south cove, as the caroline chang post office. in the commonwealth of massachusetts, there are currently 617 postal facilitates. of those renamed, only one has been named for a woman and only five for people of color. to date, not one has been named for an aapi individual. dating back to my time on the boston city council, i have underscored the need for us to have institutional representation in our public spaces because who we honor matters. at a time when the contributions of black, brown, aapi, and other marginalized communities are facing increased threats and erasure, recognizing their contributions by securing their representation is a small but a meaningful step forward. caroline often said: there is always more work to do, and i wholeheartedly agree. today, with this legislation, we recognize the work that she has done and honor her legacy, a legacy that will endure for generations to come. i urge my colleagues to support this bill. i take this moment to also thank a dedicated member of my a team, bayley connors, on my legislative staff, who worked tirelessly to bring this to fruition today. {time} 1645 mr. donalds. madam speaker, i have no further speakers, i am prepared to close, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. raskin. madam speaker, i have no further speakers, and i am prepared to close, as well. i encourage my colleagues to join me in honoring the life of ms. chang by naming the post office in boston, massachusetts after her, and we will all be proud to see it happen, pursuant to the remarks of ms. pressley. madam speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. donalds. madam speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from florida (mr. donalds) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 3728. the question was taken. the speaker pro tempore. in the opinion of the chair, two-thirds being in the affirmative, the ayes have it. mr. donalds. madam speaker, i object to the vote on the ground that a quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not present. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this question will be postponed. the point of no quorum is considered withdrawn. [[page h264]] ____________________