[congressional record volume 170, number 10 (thursday, january 18, 2024)] [house] [page h194] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] tribute to madison marsh the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from arkansas (mr. womack) for 5 minutes. mr. womack. mr. speaker, i rise today to honor the new miss america, madison marsh; that is, second lieutenant madison marsh of fort smith, arkansas, crowned miss america 2024 in ceremonies in orlando, florida, last sunday. now, for the record, mr. speaker, it should be noted that she competed under the title of miss colorado, having been a cadet at the u.s. air force academy. this amazing young lady graduated from fort smith southside high school in 2019, and it was in the foyer of her high school where i first became acquainted with her. she met with me to discuss the possibility of her attending the air force academy. after a brief discussion, it became clear to me that she had all the attributes we look for in future military officers, and she earned the designation as my principal nominee to the academy that year. soon thereafter, the academy brass agreed with my nomination and gave her an appointment. in her 4 years at the academy, lieutenant marsh excelled at everything, and she graduated and received her commission in the air force in june of 2023. just prior to graduation, however, she won the title of miss colorado and earned a trip to the miss america pageant, where she became the first military officer in the history of the pageant to compete for the title of miss america. then, on sunday, last sunday, just before 10 of the clock eastern time, she was crowned miss america. mr. speaker, it is hard to put into words how proud i am of this young lady. in this job, i have the opportunity to work with a lot of very special people. she is certainly one of them. few people have the blend of intellect, talent, poise, fitness, and beauty as madison marsh--an astrophysics major, selected for pilot training, truman scholar, rhodes finalist. accepted into harvard kennedy school, she is well on her way to her advanced degree in this prestigious university--now, miss america. all of that is impressive, for sure, but one of the most redeeming qualities of this young lady is her passion for finding the cure for pancreatic cancer, a cause she has taken up due to the untimely death of her mother, whitney, at age 41. that led to the founding of the whitney marsh foundation, purposed in raising awareness and funding for pancreatic cancer research. this new platform will give rise to an increased awareness of this dreadful disease, and lieutenant marsh is the perfect spokesperson. i have had the privilege of being associated with three miss americas: elizabeth ward from my hometown of russellville, arkansas in 1982; savvy shields, miss america 2016 from fayetteville, arkansas; and now, the reigning miss america, madison marsh. what an honor, mr. speaker, to have played a small role in this young lady's success. we join her family, her father, mike; sisters heidi and sarah; brothers nick and chris; and her extended family in congratulating madison marsh for this terrific honor. i know whitney, who is looking down from heaven, is enormously proud of her daughter for what she has become. now, the rest of america knows. ____________________