[congressional record volume 170, number 16 (monday, january 29, 2024)] [house] [page h262] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] pamela jane rock post office building mr. donalds. madam speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 3947) to designate the facility of the united states postal service located at 859 north state road 21 in melrose, florida, as the ``pamela jane rock post office building''. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 3947 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. pamela jane rock post office building. (a) designation.--the facility of the united states postal service located at 859 north state road 21 in melrose, florida, shall be known and designated as the ``pamela jane rock post office building''. (b) references.--any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the united states to the facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``pamela jane rock post office building''. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from florida (mr. donalds) and the gentleman from maryland (mr. raskin) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from florida. general leave mr. donalds. madam speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on this measure. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from florida? there was no objection. mr. donalds. madam speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. madam speaker, i rise today in support of this bill which names a melrose, florida, post office for pamela jane rock. pamela jane, a native floridian, attended the university of florida where she studied nutrition and dietetics and was a proud member of the gator marching band. pam remained a florida gator fan for the rest of her life and loved going to florida football games with her family. in january of 2022, pam became a letter carrier for the united states postal service in gainesville, florida. in august of 2022, pam was attacked by dogs while delivering mail. she later died because of injuries she sustained in the attack. madam speaker, i encourage my colleagues to support this bill honoring a dedicated postal employee whose life was tragically cut short while serving our nation, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. raskin. madam speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i rise in support of h.r. 3947, a bill designating the facility of the u.s. postal service located at 859 north state road 21 in melrose, florida, as the pamela jane rock post office building. after graduating from the university of florida, pam started a long career with the wic program and dietary education. she worked with women and families from across the united states-- from florida, yellowstone, north carolina, to georgia--and even with the peace corps in guatemala to advance critical nutritional goals for infants and children. following her long-term service with the wic program, she transitioned into a new role of public service with the u.s. postal service in january 2022 as a letter carrier. on august 22, 2022, she was unexpectedly and severely injured while delivering the mail and sadly passed away in florida as a consequence of her injuries. i encourage my colleagues to join me in honoring the life and the hard work of ms. rock by naming a post office in melrose after her. madam speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. donalds. madam speaker, i yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from florida (mr. bean). mr. bean of florida. madam speaker, i rise today in support of my bill, h.r. 3947, to designate the post office in melrose, florida, in memory of my constituent, pamela jane rock. i thank my co-lead introducer of the bill, representative cammack, as well as the entire florida delegation for their support in cosponsoring this bill. pamela jane rock was born on august 6, 1961, to john and jane rock of plantation, florida. she was the 14th and youngest child of an amazing family. growing up, she attended st. gregory catholic school in plantation and st. thomas aquinas high school in fort lauderdale, florida. after high school, she attended the university of florida and graduated in 1984 with a bachelor of science in nutrition and dietetics. during her time at uf, she was a proud member of the university of florida fighting gator marching band for 4 years. she was one of a kind in all that she did. after college, she worked for the state of florida wic program in alachua county. her passion for service continued when she spent 3 years with the peace corps in guatemala, educating women on proper nutrition for families. upon her return to the u.s., she ventured out west to yellowstone and spent time on an indian reservation, also educating women on infants' nutritional needs. pam then returned to gainesville, florida, in january 2022 where she joined the u.s. postal service and pursued a career as a letter carrier. with a desire to give back, she is remembered for placing an apple along with the mail for the residents along her route. this is the smile you saw. if she was delivering mail on your route, you saw this. we will turn this and let everybody see it, as well. this is the smile of pam, and she literally lit up her route with that smile. she was a devoted gator fan, and like many of her siblings, going to a gator football game was a big deal, and she did it whenever she could. she gardened and loved having relationships with new people, especially in her church group. she loved animals. it comes as no surprise she was a volunteer at st. francis pet care in gainesville. tragically, madam speaker, pam was attacked by dogs during her mail route in interlachen, florida, and succumbed to her injuries on august 22, 2022. it is still a sad day. pamela's friends and family described her as sweet, supportive, always there to cheer you up, and someone with a true servant's heart. she is survived by 11 of her siblings and countless nieces and nephews whom she adored. several are in the gallery today for this big occasion as we take a step, hopefully, madam speaker, to honor her service. i thank them for being here today, and i can think of no better way to honor pam's service to the united states postal service than by designating the melrose, florida, post office as the pamela jane rock post office. madam speaker, i urge my colleagues to support the bill. mr. raskin. madam speaker, i have no further speakers, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. donalds. madam speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from florida (mr. donalds) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 3947. the question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the rules were suspended and the bill was passed. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. ____________________