[congressional record volume 170, number 16 (monday, january 29, 2024)] [house] [pages h258-h260] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] overtime pay for protective services act of 2023 mr. donalds. madam speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (s. 3427) to extend the authority to provide employees of the united states secret service with overtime pay beyond other statutory limitations, and for other purposes. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: s. 3427 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``overtime pay for protective services act of 2023''. sec. 2. extension of overtime pay exception through 2028 for protective services. (a) amendments.--section 2 of the overtime pay for protective services act of 2016 (5 u.s.c. 5547 note) is amended-- (1) in the section heading, by striking ``2023'' and inserting ``2028''; (2) in subsection (a)-- (a) in the subsection heading, by striking ``definition'' and inserting ``definitions''; (b) by striking ``in this section, the term'' and inserting the following: ``in this section-- ``(1) the term''; and (c) by striking ``2023.'' and inserting the following: ``2028; and ``(2) the term `protective services' does not include routine administrative or technical work that supports the daily operations of the united states secret service.''; and (3) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``during each of calendar years 2016 through 2023'' and inserting ``for protective services during each of calendar years 2016 through 2028''. (b) retroactive effective date.--if this act is enacted after december 31, 2023, the amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect as if enacted on december 31, 2023. (c) reports.-- (1) definitions.--in this subsection: (a) appropriate committees of congress.--the term ``appropriate committees of congress'' means-- (i) the committee on appropriations of the senate; (ii) the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate; (iii) the committee on the judiciary of the senate; (iv) the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives; (v) the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives; (vi) the committee on oversight and accountability of the house of representatives; and (vii) the committee on the judiciary of the house of representatives. (b) director.--the term ``director'' means the director of the united states secret service. (2) report on plans to reduce overtime usage.-- (a) in general.--not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this act, the [[page h259]] director shall submit to the appropriate committees of congress a report describing the steps that the united states secret service is taking to address the increased protective service demands placed upon united states secret service personnel. (b) elements.--the report required under subparagraph (a) shall include the following: (i) an analysis of the current (as of the date on which the report is submitted) operational demands and staffing levels with respect to the united states secret service. (ii) recommended strategies for reducing overtime requirements for united states secret service personnel, including-- (i) the appointment of additional personnel; (ii) solutions such that sufficient resources are available throughout each year without the need for exceptions to, or waivers of, premium pay limitations; (iii) the redistribution of workload among united states secret service personnel; and (iv) other improvements in operational efficiency with respect to the united states secret service. (3) annual projections.-- (a) in general.-- (i) requirement.--in accordance with the schedule described in clause (ii), the director shall submit to the appropriate committees of congress a report that contains projections for the information described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of section 2(c) of the secret service recruitment and retention act of 2018 (public law 115-160; 132 stat. 1246), which shall be divided by calendar quarter. (ii) schedule described.--the schedule described in this clause is as follows: (i) not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this act, a report with respect to calendar year 2024. (ii) not later than december 31 of each of calendar years 2024 through 2027, a report with respect to the calendar year following the calendar year in which the report is submitted. (b) quarterly updates.--with respect to each annual report required under subparagraph (a), the director shall, on the last day of each calendar quarter of the calendar year that is covered by the report, submit to the appropriate committees of congress an updated version of that report that contains projections for the information described in that subparagraph for the remainder of that calendar year, which shall be divided by calendar quarter. (c) deeming of period.--solely for the purposes of a report required under this paragraph, a reference in any of paragraphs (1) through (7) of section 2(c) of the secret service recruitment and retention act of 2018 (public law 115-160; 132 stat. 1246) to a numerical value for a previous calendar year shall be deemed to be a projection of that numerical value for an upcoming calendar year or for the remainder of a calendar year, as applicable. (4) effect of amendments.--not later than january 30 of each of calendar years 2025 through 2029, the director shall submit to the appropriate committees of congress a report on the effects of the amendments made by subsection (a), which shall include, with respect to the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the report is submitted, the following: (a) the information described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of section 2(c) of the secret service recruitment and retention act of 2018 (public law 115-160; 132 stat. 1246). (b) a comparison between the final data reported under subparagraph (a) and the annual projections reported for that calendar year under paragraph (3)(a), including an explanation for any substantial variance between that final data and those annual projections. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from florida (mr. donalds) and the gentleman from maryland (mr. raskin) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from florida. general leave mr. donalds. madam speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous materials on this measure. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from florida? there was no objection. mr. donalds. madam speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. madam speaker, i rise in support of s. 3427, the overtime pay for protective services act of 2023. as we all know, the members of the secret service are tasked with protecting presidents, other high-ranking government officials, and their families from harm. they staff public events, providing a visible police presence, securing vital property in our nation's capital and nationwide. they are trained and prepared to act at the first sign of danger. while this career can be extremely rewarding, the job itself is challenging and stressful, with agents and officers often working long hours around the clock, including on holidays and weekends. through these sacrifices, secret service agents and officers commit their lives to public service and deserve to be fairly compensated for their work, which is why in 2016, congress authorized allowing secret service officers and agents to earn overtime pay above their gs pay scale level. unfortunately, on december 31 of last year, the secret service's authority to pay special agents and uniformed division officers adequate overtime expired, compromising the ability to pay many commensurate with their duties. with the upcoming elections and other high-profile events of global significance this year and beyond, the secret service will be called upon to help protect events and people serving in positions vital to national security. that is why i am pleased that the overtime pay for protective services act, which would renew the authority needed to provide secret service members with the respect, gratitude, and compensation that they deserve, is before us today. this bill has been endorsed by the federal law enforcement officers association. madam speaker, i thank my house colleagues, homeland security committee chairman green, and ranking member bennie thompson, for leading the bipartisan companion in the house. i also thank house oversight committee chairman james comer and ranking member jamie raskin for their work addressing this important u.s. secret service workforce issue, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. raskin. madam speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. madam speaker, i rise to support s. 3427, the overtime pay for protective services act. the legislation would see to it that secret service agents who work overtime get paid for the time they have worked. the bill authorizes an extension of the secret service's current pay cap level of level ii of the executive schedule through 2028 so that agents are permitted to receive compensation for the hours of overtime they work. without this legislation, the pay of secret service agents would be capped at gs-15 level. the presidential campaign years place great challenges and strain on secret service personnel. according to the most recent data available, in 2022, nearly 1,600 agents worked so many hours that they maxed out their annual overtime in salary. the amount of overtime worked resulted, on average, in more than $11,000 per agent. this bill also includes extensive reporting requirements, including both quarterly and annual reporting on the number of individuals receiving overtime and estimates for future years. this will help keep the agency focused on its personnel management problem, and keep congress informed on the issue and funding needs of the agency. this elevated pay cap for secret service agents has been in place since 2016. while the agency has made some progress in recruiting, this is, in essence, a management problem. the secret service must be able to pay its people in order to attract and retain the best talent that is available. the secret service needs to hire more people to reduce its heavy overtime expenses. madam speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. donalds. madam speaker, i am prepared to close, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. raskin. madam speaker, i have no further speakers, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. donalds. madam speaker, i encourage my house colleagues on both sides of the aisle to unite behind the brave men and women of the secret service and support this commonsense bipartisan bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from florida (mr. donalds) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, s. 3427. the question was taken. the speaker pro tempore. in the opinion of the chair, two-thirds being in the affirmative, the ayes have it. [[page h260]] mr. donalds. madam speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this motion will be postponed. ____________________