senator mark kelly held a rally in arizona on wednesday with former president barack obama and attorney general katie hobbs. mark kelly is in a tough race with blake masters to keep a seat in the senate. according to polls from 538, kelly holds a slight lead in a race that could determine control of the senate. during his remarks, kelly spoke about working with democrats and republicans on infrastructure and democrats' efforts to tackle climate change. kelly also took a number of shots at his opponent, blake masters. kelly said of masters, quote, he wants a national abortion ban and quote, he is now questioning the results of an election that is still six days away. kelly urged everyone in the audience to vote to stop masters. so i have an opponent, blake masters. blake masters has some beliefs that are just dangerous for arizona's. that is very funny. he wants to cut taxes. he wants to cut taxes for big corporations that are hiking up prices and has said that he would privatize social security. i understand the booze. we will not need the booze if we all vote. he wants to send seniors hard-earned benefits to wall street. you know who makes money when money goes to wall street? wall street. that was an easy one. and now this is serious. all of this is. blake masters, my opponent, he calls abortion demonic. and he said he wants to punish the doctors. and he wants a national abortion ban. he wants a national abortion ban that is so strict that even when a woman is raped, she will not be able to make this decision herself. blake masters wants to make this decision for arizona women. you do not want that. he thinks that he gets to make this choice instead of you. so what are we going to do? we are going to vote. and big numbers. so i got some new info for you. this is also about blake masters. so after getting a phone call from a guy in florida a few weeks ago, blake masters is again saying that the 2020 election was stolen. now worse than that, worse than that, he is now questioning the results of an election that is still six days away. this is dangerous folks. now we all know guys like blake masters. he thinks that he knows better than everyone about everything. do you know somebody like that? let me tell you what is here's the problem. somebody who thinks they know better than everyone about everything, letting them make decisions for you is dangerous. so in just six days, let us make sure that we beat him.