thank you, new york! whoa! and let me thank the people of new york for sending alexandria to the u.s. congress. she is not only one of the great members of congress, she is inspiring working people and young people all across the country. thank you, new york! everybody knows that a new york city may as race attracts a lot of attention. that is not new. it is the largest city in the country. you have got 8 million people. everybody is interested in what happens here. but this may as race, my friends, is different. it is not just the folks here in new york city who are paying attention. it is not just people all across our country who are watching this race. it is not just the president of the united states who seems to be very, very concerned about who wins this election. the truth is that people all over the world are paying attention to what will happen here a week from tuesday. now why is that? why has this campaign created such an unbelievable amount of interest literally all over the world? and the answer is obvious. these are not normal times. this is not a normal election. this election takes place at a moment in american history when we have a rigged economy with more income and wealth inequality than we have ever had in the history of our country. this election takes place at a time when the wealthiest people in america have never, ever had it so good while 60% of people in our country are living paycheck to paycheck, struggling to pay their rent or mortgage, struggling to afford childcare or higher education for their kids, struggling to afford healthcare, struggling to afford decent quality food, struggling how to figure out how they will retire with some shred of dignity after working their entire lives. this election takes place when the united states of america, the wealthiest country in the history of the world has one of the highest rates of childhood poverty and senior poverty of almost any nation. and when in this rich country, 800,000 americans, including many veterans, are homeless. this election takes place at a time when we have a president who has given a trillion dollars in tax breaks to the top 1%. this has given 900 billion in tax breaks to the largest corporations in our country. and to pay for those tax breaks, he is throwing 15 million americans off the healthcare they have by slashing medicaid. and in addition, he is forcing over 20 million americans to see a doubling in their healthcare premiums. the selection is taking place when we have an administration in washington which every day is moving us toward an authoritarian society undermining our constitution and the rule of law. this election is taking place when we have a corrupt campaign finance system which allows billionaires in both political parties to select the candidates they want and to buy elections. ordinary americans get one vote, you get one vote, meanwhile, billionaires get the opportunity to spend as much as they want to elect the candidates they want. that is the context in which this election is taking place. that is why this election is so enormously important and that is why zoran mamdani must become the next mayor of new york. new york must have a mayor who represents the working families of this city, not the billionaires class. the reason why this campaign has generated so much interest around the world and so much excitement is that people want to know the answer to one very simple question and that is in the year 2025 when the people on top have never ever had so much economic and political power. is it possible for ordinary people for working class people to come together and defeat those oligots? you are damn right we can. let me tell you something else. at a moment when americans are extremely distressed about where we are as a nation economically and politically, a victory here in new york will give hope and inspiration to people throughout our country and throughout the world. that is what this election is about and that is why donald trump is paying attention to this election. ordinary people working class people black and white and latino asian gay and straight coming together to take on the oligarchy that is trump's worst nightmare. what trump and his oligarchy friends know that if new yorkers come together and elect zoran we can do that from california to maine. we can defeat the oligarchy. and what the oligarchs fear, what they fear is that people will start understanding that this country belongs to us, not them. and all over the country when people are inspired, when people are standing up to power they will ask some very simple questions. why are we in the united states the only major country not to guarantee health care to all as a human right? why are not we paying our teachers the salaries they deserve? so that we can have the best public educational system in the world. why are not we doing what used to exist in new york and all over this country 70 years ago make public colleges and universities tuition free? why in the richest country on earth are we ending homelessness and building 5 million units of low income and affordable housing? why do not we make it easier for workers to join unions? and why do not we raise the national minimum wage to a living wage? and with so many of our seniors are struggling to cover their basic needs, some 22% of seniors in america are trying to survive on $15,000 a year less. why are not we raising social security benefits and providing pensions to the workers in this country who does not really need them? and why do not we have a foreign policy which does not spend billions of dollars on a net in you all, government, starving children, hey, gossal? in other words, in other words, my friends, in other words, my friends, a victory for this country will help americans understand that in the richest country in the history of the world there is nothing we cannot accomplish. now the oligarchs and the political establishment in new york tell us that the runs agenda for new york is radical. really? at a time when working families in this city are finding it hard to live here because of the outrageously high cost of housing, i do not think it is radical to say that the city should freeze the rent and triple its stock of affordable housing. that am not radical. at a time when working families cannot afford the high cost of childcare and psychologists tell us the most important years of human development, intellectual and emotional are zero through four. why should not we have a situation where every child in america gets the best quality childcare we could provide? that am not radical. taking care of our kids is not radical. at a time when getting to work is too expensive and we want to encourage more utilization of public transportation, it is not a radical idea to say that buses in this city should be free and fast. at a time when every parent wants their kids eating good quality food, not junk food, and there are neighborhoods in this city where it is simply not affordable or possible to get that food. it is not a radical idea to say that there should be unisably funded grocery stores. and by the way, when billionaires and large corporations and the very wealthy are doing extraordinarily well, when the very richest people in this country often pay an effective tax rate lower than truck drivers or nurses. it is not a radical idea to say that the rich should start paying their fair share of taxes. brothers and sisters, these ideas are not radical. they are common sense and they are what the people of new york city want and need. now let me be very clear. as someone who served as mayor of burlington for eight years, a city just a little bit smaller than new york, i can tell you absolutely that being mayor is not an easy job. in local government, the people hold you accountable for everything. to pick it up the trash, for crime problems, for the quality of education that kids receive, for traffic jams, blame the mayor. and that is what mayors have to deal with. and it is not easy. so ron mamdani is mayor is not going to have all the answers. the problems facing this country and every other major city in america are in fact enormous. so let me say this to you from the bottom of my heart. when he is elected, your job is not over. the ron wins going to need your help every single day. and this unprecedented moment in our nation's history, all of us together must act in an unprecedented way. and that means governing new york city and other cities in an unprecedented way. please do everything you can to work with ron in order to make him and his administration the best administration in the history of new york. to me, conclude by saying this, and i say this again as somebody who became mayor of burlington vermont in 1981 by winning that election by 10 votes after recap. now i have looked at the polls here in new york. you have seen it. and the polls suggest that ron is in the lead and that is great. but please, please, please do not underestimate our opponents. they have a huge amount of money and they are spending it right now. so i urge you, forget about the polls, go into the last eight days of this election assuming that you are five points behind. so what you guys are going to have to do along with the other 80,000 volunteers in the bumdami campaign, you have got to do everything that you can to bring people to the polls in early voting, which is taking place right now and on election day. none of us want to wake up the day after the election and find that we lost that election because our opponents outworked us. that must not happen. because in cystis, a year ago, very few people in new york knew about a 33-year-old assemblyman named siran mambani. and when he first entered this race for mayor, he was polling at all of 1%. nobody knew who this guy was. but siran did what people who are serious about real change always do. he created a campaign from the bottom on up by building an extraordinary and unprecedented grass roots movement which now has tens of thousands of volunteers. unlike his opponents, he did not go running to the billionaires for campaign contributions. he went to the people with an agenda that made sense to them and despite being outspent four to one, siran won the primary. brothers and sisters, with your help over the next eight days, this young man is going to make american history. it is my honor to introduce the next mayor of the city of new york, siran mambani.