the park and had read and has had had i at e out mij transition look at him, he is so powerful in that field. he is so powerful in that field. now it is for me! thank you for coming! what did you take this opportunity? so that the people of the handshump for a great victory, 10 years. and what made them the thousands of volunteers in the handshump that they gave. for the most important goals in the way, in the snow and the cold. they said that we won tonight in the handshump with one last week in iowa. and for the goals and the hard work of so many volunteers. let me say to you that this victory of here is the beginning of the end for the long term. the goal is to set up their own goal. and i would like to take the opportunity to express my appreciation and respect for all of the democratic candidates we have ran against. the glutitech have made a close touch. and what i can tell you with absolute certainty and i know my speak for everyone of the democratic candidates is that, no matter who wins and we certainly hope it is going to be us, we are going to be the winners again. the goal is to unite together and to see the most dangerous president in the modern history of this country. we so like to believe we are going to win. it is that we have an unprecedented grass roots moving from coast to coast. we so believe that we are going to win is that we are putting together an unprecedented multi-generational, multi-gracial political goal. and this is a movement from coast to coast which is demanding that we finally have an economy and a government that works for all of us. and i want to thank all of those people who have worked and contributed to our campaign but make the point. but in this point in the campaign we are taking on billionaires and we are taking on candidates funded by billionaires. we are going to win because we have the agenda that speaks to the needs of working people throughout this country. and we existential crisis for our planet. we are prepared to tell the fossil fuel industry that their short-term profits are not more important than the future of our planet. and under our administration it will be within not the government but control their lives. and i want to thank all of those people who have worked and contributed to our planet. and i want to thank all of those people who have worked and contributed to our planet. veryということ because we really ад careful confidence and more importance that alpha do not belong can machinery, we can take the mainland and that truck every moment. we can alsoiającael to make it 100% tasting production and which means we are putting impact on both countries to take on m34 suficiente production. all the americans to join out effort to transform this country andesten and dis amendmentwork december 6, 2013 at the part of marine normanemplare parade funding of the historic city of israel the product donation. and together, i have no doubt that we will deceive donald trump. thank you all for this. thank you, daniel. thank you all for this.