with the saudis in butchering and bombing civilians in yemen. bernie sanders led the effort to pass the war power's resolution to stop the war in yemen. the first time a war power's resolution has passed in the history of the united states. there are a lot of candidates who talk about the working class and middle class. but bernie sanders is the only one who is actually delivered. he stood up. he stood up to jeff bezos from the minority in the senate to get 350,000 workers a raise to $15 an hour. and when bernie sanders is president, we will have health care as a human right, which means medicare for all. now let me tell you before i bring on the next speaker and before you get to hear from bernie sanders himself, something that i always push back on and i hope you will too. the media does not understand bernie sanders when they describe this campaign as a campaign of anger or a campaign of frustration. this is not a campaign of anger. this is a campaign of vision. this is a campaign of inspiration. this is a campaign of redeeming the promise of this country, a country that believes that we do not need to be insenseless wars, that we do not need division based on race or gender, that we can have a nation where we want value and honor the dignity of every single human being. my friends, that is what we believe here in san jose. that is what we believe here in california. that is the spirit that is guiding bernie sanders and that is the america we are fighting for to elect bernie sanders, the next president of the united states. thank you. ladies and gentlemen, welcome james sanders! hello san jose, thank you for coming out to the beautiful day to be here. i am not going to talk about bernie very much because everybody else has done such a great job and ben will as well. i wanted to just mention, just to pick up on what rose said, what he is running for is to improve the quality of life, the daily existence of the people of this country, not those just on top, but the rest of us. i have the honor today of introducing somebody that i have admired for many, many years. he is known to you as the co-founder of a very wonderful ice cream company, ben and jerry's. but ben is more than just ben and jerry's. he has shown that you can be an entrepreneur, a corporate citizen that takes care of what is right environmentally, what is respectful, agriculturally, and what is wonderful in terms of being a company where workers enjoy their work or respected. he is a very respected and they are incredibly successful. so without further ado, let me introduce ben cohen, our co-chair! he is also co-chair of the bernie 2020 campaign. hello, san jose, you are looking good, you are looking very good today. thank you so much for coming out. before bernie, i used to be the most famous guy from vermont. so it is with pride and joy that i give up that mantle to bernie. ice cream is good, but a president of the united states who truly believes in justice in all its flavors, that is you for it! i am here today because i have been bernie's constituent for 40 years. and i can tell you that this guy is the real deal. bernie has inspired me, inspired me because i have seen him in action. you can believe what he says, but more than that, he does what he says. yes, he has a vision, but he also has tenacity. bernie makes things happen that people thought could never happen. i have watched him all these years and i finally figured out what makes him tick. it is love and caring. and he shows that love and caring in the work that he does. bernie is not a politician in the usual sense of the word. he is a fighter for justice, economic, social, racial and environmental. and he uses politics as a means to that end. you know, in 1981, when bernie was first elected mayor of my city, i saw him transform it from a city that was being run for the benefit of business interests. and instead, is now run for the benefit of regular everyday people and those who are oppressed. he fought hard to do it. the old guard was trying to stop him every step of the way. he persevered and he won. and he transformed the city of burlington into a model of a great quality of life. his first act as mayor was to shut down plans to privatize the shore of lake champlain with expensive condominiums. and instead, he turned the land into a park that was open to everybody. when he became my congressman, he personally took busloads of women who were struggling with breast cancer over the border into canada where they could buy the prescription drugs they needed for one-tenth the price of what they were forced to pay here in the u.s. he said a precedent and congressmen after congressmen did the same thing and take their busloads over. he voted against nafta before being against nafta was cool. he voted against going to war in iraq twice. then in 2007, he defeated the richest man in vermont and became my senator. as senator, he worked with conservatives to force the first-ever audit of the federal reserve bank that revealed numerous conflicts of interest and trillions of dollars in ultra-low interest loans to wall street banks. then the republicans were trying to push through legislation that would have cut social security benefits and benefits to veterans. bernie led the successful opposition to that. next week, bernie will be making a demand of the walmart board of directors to bring the minimum wage up to $15 an hour. now, bernie is working in the senate leading the charge against going to war in iran. bernie understands that wars do not solve problems. they create more problems. all in all, bernie has been in congress and the senate for 30 years. it is that experience in the trenches, in the cesspool of what is our political system today that will enable him with the help of all of us to finally flush the crap down the drain. so, when bernie ran for president the first time and said that he would not take any big money donations, i thought it was a mistake that he would never be able to run enough money to mount a credible campaign. then i came to understand what was going through his mind. he realized that if he could not put together an army of millions of people that were willing to donate small amounts of money, that once he got elected, he would not have that army of people that he needs to push through the legislation that he wants to make happen. so, what do i think about bernie, the man? well, he is always been the same. he never waivers. he has a clear vision for how to make america kind again. he is not a fancy guy. he is pretty down-home. no airs. and i like his hairstyle. that never changes either. bernie does not go with the trends. he sets the trends. small, donor-funded campaigns. universal healthcare. free public colleges and universities. just look at all the other candidates that are following him. look, this campaign this year is an historic opportunity. finally, we have a chance to elect a president who is not selected by insider power brokers, but for the first time in my life, a true candidate of the people. finally, a candidate who instead of being financed by wall street, the pharmaceutical companies and the chemical industry, is ready to go to bat for us against them to rein them in. i know the most important thing is defeating trump. that is the way i feel. that is the way bernie feels. that is the way i am sure we all feel. and polls have shown consistently time after time that if nominated, bernie beats trump. bernie beats trump. thank you. thank you for your participation. so we have a choice to vote in the primary for bernie who will beat trump and transform a rig system or vote for one of the other guys or girls and get more of the same old same old. and when he is elected and i become the minister of ice cream, i promise a pint in every freezer, a sunday in every bowl. power to the people. power to the people. what? oh, i am done. all right. ladies and gentlemen, the most amazing fighter for justice that i have ever seen. senator bernie sanders. sounds. it sounds like you all are ready for a political revolution. let me thank the thrive choir. kelsey prestel, winner walker baker, jr. samina usman, dr. cornell west, danny glover. and the future minister of ice cream, ben conn. and your congressman, rokana, who is going a great job in the united states congress. i want to welcome you all to a campaign, which is not only going to win here in california, which is not only going to win the democratic nomination, which is not only going to defeat the most dangerous president. but with your help is going to transform this country and create an economy and a government that works for all of us, not just the 1%. and the message of our campaign is us, not me. and the reason for that is that we have got to change the culture of america. i have got four kids and seven grandchildren, and i want you to be concerned about my family. i, in turn, will be concerned about your families. and that is what a civilized democratic society is about. we are in it together. us.me. and the second part of what us, not me, is about, is me telling you now a truth that you are not going to see much about on tv. and very few candidates for anything will tell you. and that is that we can elect a president who is honest and well-intentioned. but still not able to bring about the changes that we need in this country. and i will tell you why. it is not because he or she will not try. it is because we have a power structure in this country of incredibly powerful people and institutions who exert unbelievable influence over the economic and political life of america. and we do not bring the change that we need unless we have the guts to stand up to those powerful special interests. and so when we get elected and we together are in the white house, we will tell wall street we are going to end their greed. we are going to tell the insurance companies we are going to end their greed. we are going to tell the pharmaceutical industry we are going to end their greed. we are going to tell the prison industrial complex we are going to end their greed. we are going to tell the military industrial complex we are going to end their greed. and last but certainly not least we are going to tell the fossil fuel industry they will not destroy this planet. i want to welcome you to a campaign which is based on love which is based on compassion which is based on justice. it is a campaign and a future government that will end what trump is doing in terms of his racism in terms of his sexism in terms of his homophobia in terms of his religious bigotry. we are going to win this election because our campaign is about bringing people together not dividing them up. our campaign is about justice and i mean by that economic justice, i mean by that social justice, i mean by that racial justice and environmental justice. i get around the country a bit and i am here to tell you that the working class of this country is sick and tired of working two or three jobs and seeing almost all of the new income in wealth going to the top one percent. american people are tired of seeing 500,000 people who are homeless in this country. in san francisco is san jose and in burlington for a month. the american people are sick and tired of having to pay 40, 50, 60 percent of their limited incomes in housing. the american people are tired of leaving college with enormous debts that will take them decades to pay off. the american people are tired of trade agreements that shut down profitable companies in america and go to low wage countries abroad. so what we are fighting for is a government and an economy that represents the needs of the american people. so today we say to the private insurance companies that whether they like it or not, the united states will join every other major country on earth and guarantee health care to all people as a world. now the drug companies and the insurance companies will spend hundreds of millions of dollars to maintain the current dysfunctional health care system. this is a system that makes billions of dollars in profit for the insurance companies, while 34 million americans have no health insurance and many of you are underinsured with high deductibles and high copayments. we believe in a health care system which allows any person in this country to go to the doctor whenever they need to go to the doctor. we believe in a health care system which says that after you leave the hospital you do not have to worry about your family going bankrupt. health care is a human right and we are going to bring that right together to the american people. and when we talk about health care we are going to end big time the outrageous greed of the drug companies. last year, the top 10 drug companies made $69 billion in profit. got that? and you know why they make so much money? because they charge us the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. in fact, they charge us any price they want and one out of five americans today. people who are sick, people who go to the doctor and get a prescription cannot afford to fill that prescription. brothers and sisters, that is insane. we are going to end it. we are going to cut drug prices in half in this country. this is the wealthiest country in the world and we should not have half of our people living paycheck to paycheck. i know a little about paycheck to paycheck because that is the family that i grew up in. and what it means is if your car breaks down today and you need 500 bucks to get it fixed and you do not have that 500 bucks you cannot get to work. and if you cannot get to work, you get fired. and if you get fired, you cannot feed your kids. and all over this country, people are scared to death living under enormous anxiety that maybe their kid will get sick. maybe they will end up in the hospital and they have no idea in the world how they are going to pay those bills. so what we say today, that in america, if you work 40 hours a week, you will not live in poverty. we are going to raise the federal minimum wage to a living wage at least 15 bucks an hour. and we are going to end the absurdity of women making 80 cents on the dollar compared to men. we believe in equal pay for equal work. now next week on wednesday, i am going to be going to arkansas. i guess there is an airport near here. we are going to be going to arkansas, which is the home of the walmart corporation. and let me give you some examples of what a rigged economy is about and what we are going to transform. the walton family, as some of you may know, the family that owns walmart is the wealthiest family in america. it is worth $175 billion. got that $175 billion. that is real money. and yet, that family worth $175 billion pays its workers wages that are so low that many of those workers are forced to go on food stamps, medicaid and other businesses. and subsidized housing. and who pays for those workers, food stamps, and medicaid? so my message to the walton family next week will be we are sick and tired of giving you corporate welfare. the working class of this country will not subsidize the wealthiest family in america. pay your workers a living wage. last year, i received a number of complaints from workers at amazon. amazon is owned by the wealthiest individual in this country. a guy named jeff bezos. now, he is not quite as wealthy as the walton family. he is only worth about $114 billion. he is struggling. it is tough. he wants to catch up to the walton's, but he is not quite there yet. and we heard from workers at amazon, and they said, bernie, we are getting starvation wages and our working conditions are terrible. well, we work with those employees, and we were able to get amazon to raise their minimum wage to $15 an hour. but that is only half of the story where we talked about a rigged economy. turns out that last year, the wealthiest guy in the country, mr. bezos, who owns amazon, saw his company make $11 billion in profit. not bad. how much money did amazon pay in taxes last year? san jose is a really smart crowd. okay. you are right. he paid zero. so here is what the rigged economy is about. wealthiest family in america paying their workers' starvation wages, getting bailed out by working people. the wealthiest individual in this country owning a company that made $11 billion and not paying a nickel in taxes. brothers and sisters, together we are going to end that rigged economy. and when amazon and dozens of other corporations that pay nothing today in taxes start paying their fair share of taxes, when we do away with these tax havens all over the world, where billionaires are putting their money to avoid fair taxation, and when we do that, we are going to have the money in this country to do some extraordinary things. we are going to pass a transaction tax on wall street speculation, which will raise enough money to make public colleges and universities tuition free. i want everybody in this country who has the desire and the ability to be able to get the higher education they need to go out and get the good jobs that are out there. and i will tell you something else that we are going to do. it is an outrage beyond words. i have talked to so many people impacted by this. that young people go to school and they borrow and borrow in order to get their degree. and then after being in debt $50,000 or $100,000, it takes them year after year to pay off that student debt. people in america should not be punished for trying to get a good education. and together, we are going to substantially reduce the level of student debt in america. brothers and sisters, donald trump embarrasses us every day. he embarrasses us with his effort to try to divide our nation up. he embarrasses us with his religious bigotry. and i want to say thank you to all of our muslim friends who are here today. who are saluting. he embarrasses us with his ugly immigration policies and his demonization of immigrants. but there is something that he does that is above and beyond embarrassment. and that is he endangers our country and the entire world by refusing to understand what the scientific community is loud and clear about. and that is climate change is real. climate change is caused by human activity. and climate change is already causing devastating problems in our country and around the world. now, it seems to me that we have a moral responsibility to make certain that the planet we leave our children and grandchildren is a planet that is healthy and is habitable. that is a moral responsibility. today, we say to the fossil fuel industry that it is not acceptable that you think your short-term profits are more important than the future of this planet. now, all of you know that climate change is not just an american issue. it is an issue that impacts virtually every country on earth. and here is a promise i will make to you today that as your president, i will lead the world. we will have the united states lead the world to bring countries together. and our message will be that instead of spending a trillion and a half dollars every year all over the world on weapons of destruction, weapons designed to kill each other, why do not we use that wealth to transform the global energy system and save the planet? and i want to say a word. and actually, i want to speak to the men more than the women on this issue. all of you are aware that in alabama and in georgia and other states, legislation is being passed which denies the women of this country the constitutional right to control their bodies. the eye as president will do everything i can and a president can do a lot to make sure that it is women and not politicians who control the bodies of women. i have been asked by the media whether i have any litmus tests regarding those that i would nominate to be supreme court justices. and let me tell you that i do have a litmus test. i will never nominate anyone to be a supreme court justice unless i am 100% convinced that that individual will defend to the death row versus weight. and i want to say to the men who are here today, this is not a woman's issue, this is an issue for all of us. and now is the time for the men of this country to stand with the women. and i want to say a word about another issue that tragically is on the front pages today. and that is the mass murder that you are all aware of that took place in virginia beach. and i do not know what to say about this because every time there is a mass murder, the media says, what do you think and everyone says the same old thing. i want to tell you that in a nation that has hundreds of millions of guns, hundreds of millions of guns, that in a nation which sadly has many mentally unstable people who own some of those guns. i am not here to tell you that i have any magical solution on how to end the mass gun violence we are seeing and have seen throughout this country. but this is what i will tell you. i will do everything i can to pass common sense gun safety legislation. and among many other things that has to be done 30 years ago, iran for office, lost the election and maybe i lost it because 30 years ago when i ran for congress in vermont, i said that assault weapons on military weapons designed to kill large numbers of people in a few minutes. those are weapons that a civilian society should not have. i said it then and i say it now. let us ban. let us ban the sale and distribution of military style assault weapons in this country. i want to say a word about another issue and that is the need to reform a broken criminal justice system. this is america. we should not have more people in jail than any other country on earth. and that is why instead of spending $80 billion a year locking people up, we are going to use some of that money to invest in our young people making sure they get the jobs and the education that they need. we will use that money for our young people rather than building more jails and having more incarceration. now we made some progress on this issue four years ago. when i was campaigning here in california, i said that if we are going to have real criminal justice reform, we need to end the war on drugs and legalize marijuana. and that is exactly what we have to do in that idea is spreading all across the country. and when we talk about criminal justice reform, we are going to end private prisons and detention centers. we are going to end the system that allows 400,000 people to be in jail today for the crime of being poor and not being able to afford cash bail. and there is another issue that i know is a sensitive issue here in california and in fact all over the country. and that is the fact that we have a president who demonizes immigrants. well, we are going to end that demonization. and together we are going to pass comprehensive immigration reform and a path toward citizenship. we are going to provide immediate as soon as we can legal protection for the 1.8 million young people in this country eligible for the daca program. and we are going to initiate a new border policy. america is not and must never be a nation in which babies are snatched from the arms of their mothers where families are separated where children are put in cages. we will develop a humane respectful border policy. so brothers and sisters, here we are today in an unprecedented moment in american history. we have a president who is a pathological liar. we have a president who is a racist, a sexist, a homophobic, and a xenophobic. and that is his good qualities. all right. but our job is to end that kind of divisiveness and that kind of hatred. we are seeing sprouting up all over this country. our job is to understand that if we think big, not small, there is nothing that we cannot accomplish. yes, we can create a medicare for all system. yes, yes, we can make public colleges and universities tuition free. yes, we can raise the minimum wage to a living wage and create millions of good paying jobs by rebuilding our crumbling infrastructure. and by combating climate change through a green new deal. yes, we can end a broken and racist criminal justice system and significantly reduce the people who are now in jail. and yes, we can have a humane and decent immigration system. on all of those issues and many more, the majority of the american people support us. but that support does not mean anything if people are not involved in the political process. so what the political revolution that i am asking you to participate in is about. it is not only fighting for progressive policies, but it is going out and bringing your friends and family and co-workers into the political revolution. now it is true. it is sadly and absolutely true that the top 1% in this country has enormous wealth and enormous power. that is true. they control the economy. they control the congress. they control the media. but at the end of the day, the 1% is 1%. and i may not be a nobel prize-winning mathematician. but i do know that 99% is a heck of a lot bigger number than 1%. in other words, they have the money. they have the power. we have the people. so our job right now and in the next 8 months is to bring our people together. and when you go out and you talk to your friends, they say, well, where were you yesterday? and you said i went to a bernie sanders rally. and they say to you, why do you get involved in politics? do not you know it is all bullshit? and you tell them that you are sick and tired of hearing them talk about how they cannot afford rent. how they are not making enough money. have they worried about climate change? how they are paying off their student debt? tell them to shut up or put up. so we have got to bring our friends, our family, and our coworkers into the political process. and when we do that, when millions of people stand up and demand justice in this country, brothers and sisters, there is nothing we cannot accomplish. thank you all very much. thank you all very much.