you you you you you you you you you you you you you you okay, we got miller. bo! okay, so i am getting a sugar daddy tonight. but you guys are amazing for being here. we have an amazing show tonight. and i am so excited to be here to support the only candidate who actually wants to make the cost of living in the city actually affordable. the cost of rent is too high and so is the cost of everything else. and everybody's so excited to be here. and did i forget anything else important i am going to say? no, i am just excited to be supporting zora and mam donnie for mayor. i am going to be your mc tonight. so get used to seeing my ugly sweaty ass. and i am excited to be supporting a candidate who wants to make the city more affordable. and he is the only candidate who does not seem to be sweating all the time. so are you guys ready for an amazing show? you cannot even believe it! thanks for coming. stick around. i will see you guys soon. love you. have fun! this is what it actually looks like. showing up day after day after day and making it clear that the fight that management is picking is not just with the workers of this one company. it is with this city at large. where workers do not have to beg for what they deserve. here zora was with us on the picket line from day one. we won the best contract we have ever gotten. we are not alone. zora, solve this struggle and keep partnered up with my union. and because of this organized effort, we were able to secure the largest debt relief new york city history. thank you, ana goliath, for taking out of less your solidarity with their lives. have a nice evening. it is good to see you. are you fully ahead? these are members volunteering their time. we really understand the needs of the working class. also our fighting for a city where the workers can rest. and when i think about who won the weekend, it is organized labor. i believe every new yorker deserves a life of dignity, safety and stability and that its city government's job to deliver that. hello everyone. my name is arturo navrao tresero. for 45 years, miyawela was a member of 32bj, cleaning the floors of midtown office building. and now thanks to my cuny education, i teach sociology at kingsborough community college. cuny, brooklyn's only community college. for four years, i have been a member of psc cuny. the union represented 30,000 faculty and staff through my role as a student mentor to students. and a member of union committees. i have seen first hand that fighting together, our members changed the lives of students and workers together. we have spent years fighting trump's puppet andrew cuomo, who starved cuny of resources and jacked up tuition. and jacked up tuition for working class students. now we are facing extreme repression. members have even been investigated and some have lost their jobs for speaking up for palestine. we fought cuomo then and we will fight these attacks now together. so our union is fighting to elect cuny champion doran mandani to be an expert who will fight against trump and who is fighting to build the people's university that new yorkers deserve. what is up new york? are we ready to elect doran mandani? are we ready to elect doran mandani? make some noise! my name is chris sabenz. i am a non-security officer of the major commercial building in mental manhattan. and i am organizing to win the union with 32 bj. 32! 32! 32! 32! now did you know that our city has 82,000 low-weight security officers? did you know that the average officer makes $40,000 a year? $40,000 a year? that is poverty wages! poverty! and almost 40% of us do not have healthy jobs. whoa! i have a few health problems over the years. and each time i have to pay out of my pocket, it is no good. i am here to let you all know that we are fed up. but we have big plans. later this week we will be at city hall. find a for legislation to set wage, benefits, train standards for all security officers in new york city. so that bill is named after our new york city hero, mr. a lot of etienne, may he rest in peace. i will follow the security officer who gave his life off protecting others during a mass shooting in mental manhattan. and in my workplace, i am organizing 32 bj and my co-workers to organize the union. not only am i building, but for all 30 buildings, service by my employer. so thank you so much, madamie. sarah, what allows family? and when tragedy struck, our security officers in our fight. we got your back. hello everybody. my name is alex graf. i am an emergency medicine resident physician at king's county hospital. i am a proud member of circiu. every day in the er, i see patients that come in with preventable, serious medical illness. metastatic cancer, and a patient who may have been diagnosed early if they had access to primary care. dehydration due to diabetes in a patient who is rationing his medications and fasting during an insurance gap. a mother with a complex neurologic problem that had to prematurely end her hospital stay because she could not get child care. this affordability crisis is literally killing my patients. it is so demoralizing to feel like i have done everything that i possibly can for my patients. but when they leave the walls of the hospital, it will have no impact on their long-term health, because they cannot afford the things they need to live. the billionaire class is gutting the social safety net to line their own pockets. this is going to disproportionately affect working-class community of color and it is a tool of structural racism. that is why we must build a healthcare system that is for people and not profit. and that is part and parcel to electing zoraan mamdani as mayor to build a city that we can all afford. thank you. good evening fellow new yorkers. my name is debbie boyerman. i am a social worker at a community mental health center. at my monides hospital in brooklyn. i am a proud member and a delegate of 1199 sci union. at our last contract negotiations, i helped organize my fellow union members to show up at the table and we won significant raises, as well as extra pay for social workers who speak a second language. thank you to my fellow union siblings and my organizers. are there any union members and social workers in the house? at my monides, i provide therapy for individuals with mental illness. zoraan's proposal for a department of community safety can help address the increasing mental health crisis across this city. the police are not trained to work with people experiencing a mental health emergency. we have to keep everyone in our community safe, including the people experiencing a mental health crisis. i have learned as a social worker, individuals living with severe and serious mental illness, like schizophrenia, they deserve and need empathy, connection to long-term housing and social services. most of the people that we serve at my monides depend on medicaid for care. so the mental health crisis is only going to get worse after the federal medicaid cuts kicking if we do not act. i am proud to say, and if it matters, i happen to be jewish. yesterday, i proudly cast my vote for zoraan mamdani to help us advance. thank you. hello everybody. my name is zaki. my name is shazif yudin. i am a member of the united auto workers or the uaw. thank you. i am also a postdoctoral researcher at wilkornale medicine. my day job or my research focuses on understanding the impact of the immune cells in our gut and how they can be harnessed to develop new therapies that can improve patients' quality of life. however, for the past two years, my fellow co-workers, my fellow postdocs and i, alongside the uaw, have also been working to get protection, to fight for protections for the international members of our community. and also to demand solutions for the affordability crisis that is plaguing all of us. and we are currently at a place where we might go and strike this week to get the fair contract we need and deserve. our fight has only grown more urgent this year as the federal government attempts to slash funding for a research institution while simultaneously attacking the international members of our community. personally, felt these cuts, my job depends on receiving these federal grants, and every single time a thread is made, i am left feeling uncertain whether i will receive my next paycheck or whether i will have the resources to do the critical research that i love. and this is why it is so exciting to have a mayoral candidate like zoraan bandani. a person who we know will fight to address the affordability crisis, we are all facing. a person who will defend the right for all immigrant members of our community. and a fellow new yorker who will stand up with us against this federal administration to protect our city. the uaw was the first union to endorse zoraan. and if it is necessary to go on the picket lines, we know zoraan will have our back just like he has in the past. thank you everybody, and please remember to go out and vote. hi everyone. first, i want to give some love to people who can visit. let me hear you if you can visit us. shout out to my group in chinatown at noon today. now i want to hear you if you are a city worker. hey, in the house. and now, lastly, make some noise if you are an artist or an art worker. my name is june le. for six years, i have been a member of district council 37. the union that represents 150,000 workers who run the city. the city where i was born and raised by two working artists. i am the secretary of local 1502 at the brooklyn museum where i produced public programs like the beloved, free flagship series for saturday. this spring, our museum's management attempted to lay off 40 union workers. a reckless reduction in force that would have cut jobs, exhibitions and programs all while preserving six figure salaries for executives. the union strongly opposed. alongside our sister unit, uaw 2110, we organized rallies and testified to city council who pledged us $2.5 million. with this funding, we saved our jobs. we protected our collections and our visitors, artists, musicians, writers, students and children from brooklyn and beyond. what i learned, no one but us will save us. we will cut our jobs for executives and safety protocols for art handlers just to hold on to their own power. no more of this. no more. with a new mayor as our ally, we together protect each other. we organize. we unionize. we are the art workers that make new york city a place where everyone can afford to dream and afford to create. it is our future to win. thank you. hello. hi, how is everyone doing today? hello. my name is kai fritz. i am a starbucks barista. i am proud union member and new yorker. and i am here today because i know that new york is not for sale. and i want to live in new york for workers, not for corporations. starbucks and its ceo brian nichol are the embodiment of corporate greed and oligarchy. nichol was paid $96 million last year for just 120 days of work. that is 6,666 times what a barista like me makes. his wealth comes at the expense of workers like me. our healthcare, our rent, our grocery bills. this is a broken system but we are fighting back and we are fighting to win. starbucks workers united is one of the fastest growing union movements of this century. over 12,000 of my union siblings have organized and inspired workers all over the world. and we are not backing down. our fight for a fair contract is part of a larger struggle for dignity, for justice and for an economy that works for all of us. not greedy corporations, not billionaires, not oligarchs for all of us. we know zorhan has our back and we will be with us on the picket line if we strike and we need all of you to join us to. no contract, no coffee. zorhan's fight is our fight. workers need a mayor who will take on corporate greed and make this city truly affordable for all new yorkers. and that is why i am proud to vote for zorhan on november 4th. thank you. who are we? who are we? who are we? yes sir. my name is curtis bodie. i am a proud resident of the products. and most importantly, a proud union member of the hotel, gaming and trade council. a.c.c. my union and i have fought two for now to win the best wages, benefits for hospitality workers. and because of our contract, we was able to thrive through the hardest times. when the pandemic hit and tourism collapsed, my brothers and sisters and i had a lifeline. that contract is set to aspire this july. and everything we work to do from now until the summer is to make sure we are ready to demand the wages, benefits and protection we deserve. this fight will decide the future of 3,000 workers and their families for the next decade. and when so much on the line, we need a mayor to stand with us, not sell us out. that is why i am proud to stand with my union and supporting zora madani for mayor. whether it is holding hotels accountable to keep working safe and pushing back where airbnb is spending millions of dollars to take out our homes and our jobs. we will you you will make sure we never go into battle against a bully alone. and zora knows what it is like to take on bullied. donald trump. we see him go against the big guys with all the money, all the power and all the insiders and win. that is the type of ally we need in city hall to stay inside our side with us. when we want to pick a line to behind closed doors, i know new york is getting kind of zora. now let us show him we can kind of him and vote next tuesday for zora madani for mayor. please put your hands together for a visionary leader and fighter for workers everywhere. s.e.i.u. president april veren. no contract. and i got to do this for the home team. s.e.i.u. i got to do this for the home team. i got to do this for the home team. i got to do this for the home team. i got to do this for the home team. i got to do this for the home team. it was a great day for me. i got to do this for the home team. i got to do this for the home team. when working people anywhere show up for a fight? sciu gonna damn show show up for the fight, am i right? and make absolutely no mistake about it. working families across new york city are in the fight for your lives. pick any issue and it is abundantly clear. housing, healthcare, childcare, fair wages, working families are being crushed. i do not have to tell you, you live it. but here is what gives me hope. here's why i had to be with you tonight. zorin, mamdani, donnie, i am dead, and i knew i was gonna do that. zorin, mamdani, gives me hope. he gives me hope because he knows how to fight and he does not just fight, he wins. and that is why in just nine days, not only is he gonna win, we are all gonna win when we make him the next mayor of new york city. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. and you all know, you all know far better than i, there is a lot to love about our dear brothers zorin. but one of the things that i love about him, he is not just a fighter. he is a believer. he believes in people. he believes that every new yorker deserves dignity, opportunity, and the chance to lead and live a life of dignity and respect. yeah. when working people are backed into a corner, he does not look away. he does not look away, he looks for a way through. he is the kind of leader who listens when others dismiss us. he is the kind of leader who shows up, even most of the time when others are uncomfortable. he is the one who is gonna stand with the people until victory is won. and he knows, he knows that the cost of living is crushing working people in this city. but here's what makes him different. he does not throw his hands up and say, oh, that is just the way it is. he believes something radical. he believes that government can actually work for us. not just for greedy billionaires, not just for developers, not just for hedge fund managers. he believes it is the people who make this city run and it is the people who should share and the prosperity of this city. woo! and another reason that i crush on our boys, is somebody saying, oh, you can just call him z. another reason that i crush on z is because he carries a superpower. he carries radical imagination. radical imagination. that is the courage to believe that better is possible and not just believe it, but have the discipline to organize until you make it real. and he is why. here's why i get to crush on all you all too, because he is not the only one with that power. you got it too. it is our inheritance. radical imagination is. it is the force that carry people through every single crisis, every struggle, every fright for freedom. radical imagination is what led and slain africans to dream of liberation when they never knew freedom. radical imagination is what moved women to demand the rights of vote in a world that told them to stay silent. radical imagination is what drives workers to strike, to organize, to say no coffee, no contract, to organize the security officers. radical imagination is our power. it is our legacy. it is our inheritance. and it is ours to make our dreams come true. is that same power, that same unstoppable force that is alive in this auditorium tonight? can you feel it? can you feel your power? family, our charge in this moment is to remember that power has always, always has rested with the people. and when we organize, we make history. and history does not happen by osmosis family. it takes work. it takes discipline. and it certainly takes love. it takes love. it takes love for each other. it takes love for your city. that is why, you all, you got nine days. nine days to knock every door, nine days to make every call. nine days to bring every last voter into this movement. so when you leave this rally, get your phones out. text your friends, call your coworkers. get on that family thread, hell, call that ex. yup, i mean it, call that ex. cause this moment is too important for you not to. and i will close with this. zorin, moundani, will be the kind of mayor that wakes up every morning and works his heart out for you. he who works his heart out for better jobs, for fair pay, for better educational opportunities, for affordable housing, for better healthcare, for quality and affordability, and the protection of our rights and of our democracy. that is leadership, new york. that is the future we can build together. let us finish strong. let us go get it. thank you, president beret. keep it going for president beret. and keep it going for all the workers fighting for better wages and democracy in the workplace. make some noise if you are a worker. i am also a worker. so please cast me. i will do full frontal. now please get your minds out of the gutter. i am also in a union. i am in the screen. actors guild union. braggeler, make some noise if you are in a union. make some noise if you want to be in a union. that is right. zora and mom donnie is the only candidate running for mayor of new york city that actually cares about workers in union. so make a lot of noise for that. make some noise if you are never going to get tired of making some noise. workers rock. stick around. there is a cool video. i will be back. bye. let us see where it is at. i am so excited. i am so excited. i am so excited. i am so excited. i am so excited. i am so excited. i am so excited. i am so excited. so much, i think what you encounter in terms of canvassing is not even people being hostile to a candidate. people are really, really, really reticent to put trust in politicians. and i think that canvassing is an opportunity to try to do that trust. canvass launches that continued in the pouring rain. strangers who care about those they will never meet. finding floor after floor of the sixth floor walk up in the rain, in the sun, in the smoke. this for many of you is the first time that you have got involved in politics. the first time that you actually thought, maybe i need to go out on this dreary sunday evening. no, you came to be surrounded by other folks who are just as energized as you are. all we need is someone with the will and the strength and character to fight for us. people really believe in this man. and i kind of do too. i do kind of. i do. dreaming demands solidarity. when i look out at this room and out onto the midnight skyline, that is what i see. i do. i do. i do. our socialists in office from the democratic socialists of america, senator julius salazar, assembly members, claire valdez, marcella martinez, sarah hanna's threatsha, and emily gallagher, and city council members, alexa and tiffany coban. good evening everyone. i am new york state senator julius salazar. in 2018, i became the first democratic socialist elected to our state legislature in nearly a century. before that election, i was in every day new yorker, like many of you, organizing with my neighbors to demand better from our elected officials. but rising costs and skyrocketing rents were making it harder and harder for working people to stay in our neighborhoods. and i told my fellow dsa members that i could not stay on the sidelines. so we launched a long shot campaign that year for the state senate with a promise to fight for everything that working class people deserve. but the odds were against us. my opponent had held elected office for 26 years and he was part of a political dynasty backed by wealthy donors and corporate real estate. we were a scrappy grassroots campaign. does that sound familiar? but in 2018, we won because we had the power of the people on our side. the establishment did not take me seriously. our democratic socialist agenda was too radical. it was too radical to win. but together, we proved them wrong. that is right. and we were just getting started. we came right back for more. in 2020, we elected another five democratic socialists to the state legislature. including a guy you may have heard of named zaron mamdani to the state assembly. but we did not even stop there. the following year brought the victories of democratic socialist alexa amiles. and tiffany cabin to the city council. and you know we could not stop there. so we kept going and we elected kristen gonzales to the state senate. and assemblywoman clair baldez. and now we are on the verge of electing zaron mamdani to become our democratic socialist mayor right here in the largest, greatest city in the country. and now this incredible campaign demonstrates that we not only have the people on our side, but our movement has grown. is it radical to demand that billionaires finally pay their fair share of taxes? is it radical to fight to abolish ice? is it radical to believe that every family in new york should be able to afford childcare? these are the demands we must make to build the future we dream of into a reality. and now in our next city, are we ready to elect zaron mamdani as our next mayor? are we ready to tax the rich to fund universal childcare? and make our city's buses fast and free. zaron's vision for new york is one that is affordable and dignified for everyone. families will not have to choose between childcare and paying the rent where our neighbors are not punished for speaking out against a genocide in palestine. on november 4th, we will remind the elite once again that we have the people power and we will give zaron the mandate he needs to lead our city. and after we secure this election day victory, you can continue to build with us by joining dsa. thank you all for being in this movement with me. it is now my deep honor to introduce my colleague and comrade assembly member, claire valdez. okay, hello, high queens. six years ago, i joined dsa because i saw power in our movement. i saw organizers like julia salazar and alexandria coste de cortez take on political dynasties and big money and win. and i wanted to be a part of it. and i was not alone. i am standing here with so many of our electeds and we have managed to get across the finish line and grins incredible odds over the years. one of them, not on stage yet, zaron mamdani. and it never would have occurred to me six years ago that we would be here, that we would be days away from electing our colleague, our friends, zaron mamdani, a democratic social smare of new york city. but here's the thing. zorndan come out of nowhere. he came out of our movements. our movement that has been fighting for workers and tenants and immigrants and our trans siblings. our movement that believes in the richest city in the richest country this world has ever seen no one should go without housing and healthcare. and of course, you know, that is exactly what the billionaires are afraid of. they are afraid of our movement. and that is why bill ackman and whitney tillson and michael bloomberg have spent millions of dollars in this race to so fear and hatred and racist ai slop. because they think if they can set enough money on fire, they will win. but i think we know the truth. that new york is not for sale. but my friends, our work is not done and unfortunately it is not even done on november 5th. ours is a lifetime commitment, dividing racism, dividing billionaires, dividing fascism. and if you are here tonight and if you have a knock and gun doors with us, you are part of that movement. so i am going to make the same ask that my friend just made. will you take the step i took six years ago and join dsa? we are taking down names. a couple more questions before you go. will you hit the doors for let us go on mamdanin? are you ready to organize, to freeze the rent, make the buses fast and free, win universal childcare and tax the rich? and to quotes another famous socialist mayor, bernie sanders. are you ready to fight for someone you do not know? hell yeah, let us win this green solidarity forever. you know him, you love him. please give it up for new york city cop troller, brad lander! good evening new york city! i am brad lander, the new york city controller, also known as your second choice in the primary. that primary gave me a front row seat to see this powerful coalition that zoran is building and then to become part of it. watching zoran up close, i got to see how hungry new yorkers are for a city they can afford where everyone is welcome and with a leader who inspires us. so when the opportunity to cross indoors arrived, i knew just what to do. for starters, we had to send that corrupt, abusive bully andrew cuomo back to the suburbs. i said it on election night and i cannot wait to say it again next tuesday. good fucking riddance! but our cross endorsement was more than ranked choice math. it also showed the possibility of solidarity. politics does not have to be the sour selfish ego trip of cuomo or adams or trump. politics can be a team sport for building the new york of our dreams. that is what zoran is building and that is what all of us are building. so i want to start by asking how many of you like me are jews for zoran? now you might not think it from the press but you could hear it here. zoran's coalition includes hundreds of thousands of jewish new yorkers. we see in this campaign a way to fulfill jewish values like bicellum elohim that everyone is created in god's image or a havetah at hager that we are commanded to welcome refugees. on primary night zoran made a commitment to reach out to people who disagree with him. and since then i have seen him keep that promise in dozens of meetings with rabbis and jewish leaders in house parties, in synagogues at town halls, at rosha shana and yom kippur services in each one. zoran listened intently to people's hopes and also to their fears including all two real experiences of anti-semitism. with patience, with compassion and with a plan he has made it crystal clear zoran will work to keep jewish new yorkers and all new yorkers safe. now how many of you are muslims for zoran? assalamu alaikum. i want to speak to you as a jewish new yorker because this race especially in the last few days has seen outrageous islamophobia. for shame, shame on you jd bats and shame on you andrew cuomo. andrew cuomo and his billionaire donors have sought to exploit both anti-semitism and islamophobia for his political gain. it is gross and we will not stand for it. the jews and muslims will not be divided against each other. our safety, our freedom, our thriving is bound up together. and that is true in new york city and it is also true in israel and palestine. israelis will not be free and safe until palestinians are free and safe. and that is why even though this is a municipal election, we demand the end to the genocide in gaza. i am so thrilled that the hostages are home. i met many of their families, many of them. now the ceasefire must be honored and aid must flow in and a path to palestinian freedom and peace must be found. we might see different ways of getting there but we will not compromise anyone's humanity. and that includes immigrants coming to our city fleeing violence and war and poverty. this spring, in june when i was arrested at 26th federal plaza trying to accompany eduardo. zoraan was the first mayoral candidate to show up and demand my release. i have been back every week since this past thursday i was there for the detention of a 16 year old high school student named joel. for shame, shame. and i went back to get arrested in civil disobedience again last month along with a lot of you. we will fight donald trump by showing up for our neighbors at 26th federal plaza or anywhere else he tries to comfort them. we will fight donald trump by standing with our attorney general, tish james. we will fight donald trump by saying good riddance to his puppet andrew cuomo. and we will fight donald trump when we show up in historic numbers with our neighbors, with our friends, with our families to reject his politics of corruption and billionaire rule and a lexoran mamdani. the next mayor of new york city. because it is not donald trump versus zoraan mamdani. it is donald trump versus new york city. with zoraan as our mayor, we will show the world that we know what it means to wake up every day with that copper plated statue in the harbor reminding us what it means to be new yorkers. and that work will not stop at the boundaries of the five burrows. we will take that fight to albany to win the resources working people deserve. and we will take that fight to the halls of congress where it is more important than ever that we have leaders who understand this moment and who will be partners to zoraan. finally, the new york of our dreams will not build itself. we will build it together. so let me see again where the jews are on. the muslims, christians, hindus, sikhs, people who are not religious, blacks, latinos, asians, zoraan, lgbtq. look around you. this is the new york of our dreams. and now it is on us to make it real. the coalition that won the primary by turning out new voters in historic numbers, you are not half a million doors in those last 11 days. we need to do that now again. to remind those voters there is one more election on november 4th for all the marbles. so, qr code, sign up to canvas right now. please, i am doing it. please join me as well. our sages say, call alam kulu, geshire tsar ma'od. all the world is a very narrow bridge and the most important thing is not to be afraid. so let us canvas, let us vote, let us cross that bridge together. let us elect mayor zoraan mamdani. let us build the new york of our dreams. thank you very much. keep it going for brad landr. okay guys, here's the thing. brad landr is really serious about canvassing. are you? so this is the qr code. this is the qr code. everybody take out your phone right now. do not make me be bossy. i see one phone. i know you all take out your phones right now. take a picture of me. and then take a scan the qr code and i am not getting off sage until every single person takes out their phone. does the qr code? i do not know how to do that, but you all do. and sign up for canvassing because how many days do we have left? are you going to canvas tonight after this? right. is everyone i am going to wait until you all sign up to canvass. sing with me. can you clear up the closing doors please? hey guys, i was not finished singing so you just silenced the female narrative but the wrong. just kidding. you guys all sign up to canvass. thank you for doing that. keep it going for yourselves. i have got an amazing joke for you. a reverend, a rabbi, and an imam walk into the bar and the bartender says, what are you having? and they say, no cuomo. you guys like that. okay. can i get the energy back up? okay guys, please give a warm not cold, not chilly, a very warm new york welcome to reverend charles galbreath, rabbi sharon kleinbaum, and a mod imam khaled lateef. good evening. my name is khaled lateef. i am the director of the islamic center of new york city and a proud member of the muslim democratic club of new york. we are gathered at a time when too many people in our city and in our country are being told that they do not belong. when the language of our politics too often divides rather than unites, when people are made to feel invisible not because of what they have done but because of who they are. like many of you, i am here tonight not just because my brother is ahran mamdani is running but because of what he is running for. we are here not because it is fashionable not because it is convenient but simply because it is right. we are here because the moral fiber of our democracy is being tested. we are here because we refuse to allow the forces of hatred, greed, and fear to have the last word. the vitriol and bigotry that is unsurprisingly and unfortunately spewed itself from commentators, politicians, and political opportunists is the same tired islamophobic rhetoric that has plagued our nation for decades. they invoked 9-11 recycled anti-muslim tropes and warned that a muslim in a position of power poses a threat to our security and our democracy. this is not new but it is still very dangerous. you have to understand that islamophobia is not just hate, it is a strategy. what we are witnessing is a deliberate attempt to marginalize and dehumanize. it is used to cast muslims as perpetual outsiders incapable of leadership unworthy of trust. when zahran succeeds in the reaction from andrew cuomo is to question his loyalty to america, that reveals a deeper ailment. one where identity itself becomes suspect. to be muslim in america is to know that your belonging is always being questioned. but we are still here and we are not going anywhere. the same forces that target muslims are also targeting immigrants, the working class, the homeless, black and brown people of all kinds. really anyone who comes from underserved and underprivileged backgrounds, especially those amongst them who dare to speak truth to power. islamophobia does not exist in a vacuum, it is entangled with white supremacy, xenophobia and anti-black racism. to me, anti-muslim sentiment has always been a system of anti-blackness. to those battling hatred in our political discourse, you should know that democracy thrives not on fear but on radical empathy. it demands we trust one another, respect our differences, and elect leaders who reflect our collective identity, not just a narrow majority. and there is no doubt that those who believe in zahran's leadership come from all walks of life. to everyone who is not a bigot, remember that we are stronger when we include and not exclude. zahran's victory will not just be a political milestone, it is an invitation to dream bigger, to love braver, and to live up to our city's promise. we do not need to become what they fear in order to defeat them. we simply need to keep showing up with our hearts, our feet grounded, and our collective voice strong and unwavering. this is our city too, and we all belong here. we are here to say that justice is not just a slogan, it is a struggle. that love is not just a sentiment, it is a commitment, that every human being, no matter their faith, their color, their gender, their income, or their immigration status, has infinite value and unshakeable dignity. that affordability is not just about rent checks and price tags, it is about whether ordinary people can live with stability, with joy, with hope, that a democracy that allows corporate greed to dictate who gets a home, who gets health care, who gets to dream. that is a democracy on life supports, we may not have all the money, but we have a movement made up of the people, and when the people move the ground beneath injustice begins to shake. when the people move the walls built to divide us, they crumble. when the people move the impossible becomes inevitable. to my brother zahran mamdani, keep showing them who we are by showing them who you are. we are with you every step of the way, and we know that your victory will not just be yours but ours. it will belong to every family fighting to stay in their home, every worker demanding dignity, and every young person daring to dream of a fair world. because when you rise zahran, we all rise. when you speak truth to power, you remind us that the moral arc of the universe still bends towards justice, but only when we bend it together. so let us keep bending, let us keep building, let us keep believing. this is our city, this is our moment, and this movement is what new york city should look like. this is the vision of new york city that we love. a muslim, a jew, and a christian stand here supporting this campaign to take our city back. my name is sharon kleinbaum, and i am a rabbi here in new york city who is dedicated to the vision of transforming this city into a place in which all of us live in peace and security and can afford to live in this city. in our jewish story, read this past shabbat of noah after the flood, god says to all of us, i set my rainbow in the clouds as a sign of the covenant between me and the earth. now it is your turn to make sure the earth is taken care of. that rainbow was the first covenant, a promise of life and diversity, a sign that creation itself is holy in all of our colors, a sign that it is up to us to create a future, free of corruption and violence which were told, caused god to flood the earth with the marble, with the flood itself. our sages then taught in pirki avout in the mishnah that the rainbow was one of the last things that god created. baynash mahshot in the tender moment between day and night when light and darkness touch but do not erase each other. that is the spiritual hour new york city lives in all the time between light and shadow, wealth and poverty, despair and hope. and it is in that in between place that holiness is born. centuries later, two jewish sons of immigrants, yip harberg and harold arlen, dreamed another rainbow into being. there was no rainbow in the original wizard of oz. in the depths of the great depression, they wrote somewhere over the rainbow. from a place of despair and hopelessness, we can imagine the creativity of a rainbow with color and vision and creativity, a vision not of escape but of courage, a world in which people could live free and unafraid, where dreams and justice meet. that dream must be renewed in every generation. and we need leaders like zoran mamdani to help us keep imagination and creativity alive to dream of the future and work hard to make it happen. here in this city of mosques and churches, temples and synagogues, street corner altars, we are each of us called to make that rainbow real. we must make sure we are creating a city which feeds the hungry, houses the unhoused, welcomes the stranger and the immigrant and protects every single child's right to dream. we must be the carriers of that message. we must make affordable this messy creative city of ours. now i know that i do not agree with our leaders zoran mamdani and his in everything that he says, i do not agree with anyone on everything. but we in this city must model what it looks like to hold differences that we can debate and discuss, argue and disagree and stay in relationship. but one thing i know for sure that muslims and jews must work together for a shared future of all of us, where the humanity of palestinians and israelis have a future of shared security, freedom, dignity and justice. this can only happen when we all are working together with love and respect and on issues related to new york city we completely agree. we dream of a city where jews and muslims respect and care for each other. forcefully as a rabbi i reject all attacks of islamophobia and hatred of arabs or of muslims. this is not my judaism. this is not my god. together we must reject all these attacks of islamophobia and anti-semitism. we need each other. we dream of a city where god's cashier to rainbow bathes all of us in light and justice and in glorious tapestries of differences. and we always pray to remember that joy itself is an act of spiritual and political resistance. as a rabbi i am grateful to zoran for his commitment to fight anti-semitism, for his commitment to protect all houses of worship and to take seriously the fear that many jewish communities live with. we dream of a future and we make it real every day with our passionate commitment rooted in faith, relationships across all kinds of differences and the leadership of zoran mamdani to take all of us and our city into a new future. thank you. good evening new york. my name is charles galbret and i serve as a pastor in brooklyn, new york. it is brooklyn in the house. without a doubt. i serve a congregation that for over 103 years has welcomed immigrants into its doors and into its community. the faces and the places they have come from has changed but we realize they are constantly and consistently looking to dream again. we recognize that many of our folks have been pushed and priced out. healthcare costs have many people feeling helpless. for far too long their dreams have been deferred, depressed, discounted and just simply dist. but i believe that there is a season coming. a season of recovery in our text it speaks about a brother who was a dreamer. and i believe that there is another dreamer who has a vision for new york city. who can dream and actualize our way out of food insecurity. out of housing that is unaffordable. constantly being underneath a crisis and intimidation to our immigrants. i believe that there is a possibility that rests within our city and rests within our brothers or our mom. in my sacred text there is a story and narrative of jesus where he sees folks who are hungry. he takes what is there, few loaves of bread and some fish and begins to break it and distribute it to people. it is interesting because the text says he broke it, blessed it, gave it to the folks and everybody ate. i believe it is possible to have a city where everybody can eat. whether you have been here for two years or 22 years everybody can eat. whether you ride the five, the two, the one or the a everybody can eat. whether you live in beautiful brooklyn, the bustling bronx, money making, my hat and a statin island or queens, everybody can. whether you come from here or from haiti or from somewhere else, everybody can eat. let us get together as one so that this entire city can be a place where everybody can eat. these are not just slogans, these are commitments. everyone should be able to raise a family in new york. we will deliver universal childhood. change is coming, new yorkers deserve a city they can afford. we are gonna deliver. it is government's job to make your life better. that is exactly what we are going to do. it is new york's agenda. it is our agenda. all of these concepts are just ideas in the clouds of reaching out the left, so far from mama donnie. join me in welcoming the leaders who will help us bring this home. governor kathy hocal, state senate majority leader andres stewart cousins, and assembly speaker carl hayst. please give a warm welcome to our greatest allies in albany. partners in delivering our affordability agenda, speaker of the new york state assembly carl hayst. leader of the new york state senate andres stewart cousins, and governor kathy hocal. here we are, everyone. it is great to see everyone. tonight, tonight, we are here for one reason. are you with me? do you want to elect soran mandabi at the next mayor of new york? well, then i am in the right place. because in so doing, in so doing, electing him is our 111th mayor. we will change the course of history. and it needs to be changed. because right now, i do not mean to take you all down to a dark place. this has been a really uplifting experience. but right now, our city and our state and our country are under attack by donald trump and the republicans in washington. they are literally not just taking a wrecking ball to the white house. they are taking a wrecking ball to our very values, our people, and our progress. get this, get this. donald trump literally said the shutdown is about killing democratic priorities. now, what are those priorities? donald trump, this is gisquit's bad. killing food assistance for babies. yeah, really sucks. killing money for seniors to pay their utility bills. killing healthcare for new yorkers already struggling to take care of their own lives. it even meant killing planned parenthood until we came in with money to keep it alive. because they do not give a damn about women in their healthcare and their rights to an abortion. they also killing major infrastructure projects, putting tens of thousands of hardworking union members out of work. oh, friends, it gets worse. what about the ice agents flooding our streets as we speak? canal street, queens, the bronx, their everywhere, and their terrorizing innocent people. and we have had enough. now, donald trump said, oh, we are going after the worst of the worst. the baddest of the bad. they are splitting up families. and let me tell you this, this actually happened. they took away mothers of babies who are nursing them and separated them. this is how cruel they are. okay. how do you top that? now, no, it continues. it is going to continue. it is all bad. now, they are going after our attorney general, tish james. they go after tish james. they can come after any of us. but here's what they did not count on. here's what they did not count on. they always forget this about us. when we get punched, we fight back and we fight back hard. we do not just fight, we win. because time and time again, new yorkers have been knocked down, and we get up stronger, louder, and more resilient than ever before. so, i will be fighting every day with my partners on the same side on restored cousins. and yars speaker carlisle, you get them a round of applause. what is going on? well, we need something. here's what we need. all you are fired up. but the three of us cannot do it alone. we need a fighter in city hall who wakes up every day, ready to punch and fight for the work he will the city and that person is zara manavi. and this is because trump's america runs on fear and cruelty and division. but new york, we run on hope and compassion and optimism that never leaves us. so, i say we are the state that does not back down, and i am going to be working closely with mayor zoram manavi. but you know what? well, you know what i admire about him so much? now, think about this. zoram. come on. but you know what you should take inspiration from? think about the fact that every single time people have forced him to endure hatred and threats trying to use his faith for his name as a weapon. you know what he is done? he does not get out in the gutter with everybody else. he rises up with grace and courage and grit. that is the kind of leader we need. that is what we need. because that islamophobia and bigotry and hate-filled speech, that kind of bullshit does not belong in new york. and i see in him someone who sees in new york that is affordable because we want to live here. we want families to grow here, want them to prosper. so we need more housing. but you know what? here's something i can tell you about personally. new york's first mom governor. we need more child care. and it has to be universal. child care for everyone who wants it. so here's what we are going to do. well this crowd is fired up. alright. i can hear you. but here's my friends. you want to see zoran or not? listen, i got one plea for you. i love to see this energy and this passion. and for those of you who have not been involved in the voting or even campaigns before, i am so excited about what is going on here. but i need you to do something. alright, one more thing. my friend, this is about this november's election. but take that energy, that passion and take it into 26 so that we can take back the house of representatives, take the senate and take back our country. what is your help we will? alex zoran, we take back america. thank you, queens. thank you, new york. i love you guys. thank you. well, good evening everyone. i am call hastie, new york state speaker of the assembly. and i have personally witnessed the profound impact that government can have on a lives of everyday citizens, particularly here in new york. and i come to you today not only is the first black speaker in the history of this state, but someone who calls this great city to home, namely the bookie down bronx. that is why i am proud to support my colleague and my good friends zoran mandani to be the next mayor of the city of new york. we are living in an era which is too tough when actions speak louder than words. change makers are taking center stage, determined to bring about necessary transformations that will improve our communities. i need you all to repeat after me. we deserve an affordable city. we deserve affordable city. we deserve an affordable city. we deserve an affordable city. and as a supporter of zoran, a candidate whose name has become synonymous with the fight for affordability in a city played by high inflation, i am deeply committed to this cause. and i stand behind him today. it is a cause that every single one of us has had to grapple with as we walk the aisles of the grocery store as family speaking, seeking adequate care for their children. in a city run not only run by coffee, but a reliable and accessible public transportation system. we witnessed the stark reality of how many new yorkers rely on these services with simultaneously struggling to afford these fares. during zoran's 10 years assembly, i hear you guys. i have collaborated closely with him to prioritize the needs of everyday new yorkers. together alongside the assembly majority, we spearheaded initiatives to pilot a free bus route in every borough providing a lifeline for families as they juggle their daily responsibilities. with zoran as mayor, there is no imagining what we can do together. now, i need you all to listen to me again. so everybody, zoran for mayor, zoran for mayor, zoran for mayor, zoran for mayor. under the leadership of zoran, he will be the fighter we need in city hall, a beacon of change for communities that have felt unheard for far too long. affordability would be at the forefront of his agenda, and we can all stand together in witness leadership in action as he worked towards an even better and brighter future for our below city. and do not forget, as we head to the polls, just remember zoran for mayor. good evening new york. i love what i am feeling here. we are going to win this, right? so, we all hear you. here's what i want to say. i want to say that i remember living in new york city in the housing project, amsterdam and then part time. i remember having a child and needing daycare. i remember making $7900 a year, and they told me that i was making too much. it was the first time that i had the opportunity, because i was young 20-something, that i stood outside in front of city hall with so many people just like me begging the government to understand that i needed to work to support my child with dignity and to have child care. they did not hear me. fortunately, my mother stepped in, so i was able to continue work. this is a story that in 2025 still exists. it is a story of unaffordability for the things that we need every single day. however, we have zoran. not only is he about affordability, but you heard the governor, you heard the speaker, and you heard from me. and just as the speaker is his historic figure in the assembly, the governor, the first woman to ever hold the position. and i am the first woman to ever lead a conference in the history of new york state. i bring my experiences with me to the table. and i tell you my experiences so you know that i get it. he gets it. the governor gets it. and i also talk about the history because you are looking at history. things that people said could never be done. people could never have these seats. they never ever sit at the table and make policy decisions. that is what they would ever believe. and yet, because you vote, we change history. we change lives. we make things happen. it is in your hands. you have the power. one of the things that i was telling zoran's campaign manager, maya, you should give her a round of applause. look where we are. the first time i ran for senate, i lost by 18 votes. in the longest race in history, they told me february the next year that i lost by 18 votes. and look what happened. but i do not want you to learn from what happened to me. you get out there. do not rest. do not stop. not go in every door. you saw the qr code. can this knock and get people out there to vote because we do not have another chance. we cannot miss this chance. i am just up north a little bit in yonkers. but in westchester, i always help folks. in westchester, the house, come on. thank you. thank you. but what i always say up there is when democrats vote, democrats win. but you know what i am going to be collective. i know there is a lot of people here. a lot of people will not change. so what i am going to tell you to repeat after me is when we vote, we win. when we vote, when we vote, let us go win. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. governor hope, speaker, hasty, and leader, steward, cousins. tax the rich. tax the rich. that was cool. if you think about it, they were all former co-workers with cuomo in albany. and think about how bad you have to be at your job. if all of your former co-workers get together to complain about how bad you were at your job, on stage in a stadium full of people. you guys have been amazing tonight. you are never going to see me again after this. so please get... i know. i know. i know. i really stinks. but our headliners are coming on soon. but before they do, before they do, is everyone scanning the qr code to sign up to canvas? okay. on the count of three. i am going to say one, two, three. promise i will canvas, and i will talk to my weird parents and my neighbors to get zora-unelected. okay. you remember all that? one, two, three. you sort of got it. give it up for yourselves. you guys are amazing. thanks for coming out tonight. we have some amazing co-headliners. and there is nine days left to go. do everything you can to make sure we elect zora-unmom-dani with amanda to make new york city more affordable for all of us. and please give a warm welcome to the resistance revival corridors. hello everybody. we are here to sing. we are the resistance revival corridors. we got a lot of friends with us on stage tonight. there we go. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. we are here to sing. and, and, and, and insufficient eroded bygone political establishment, this time in the form of andrew cuomo, whose pursuit of power has blinded them from what that power is supposed to be used for in the first place, which is to aid and put the working people of america and new york city first. and, queen's, both of these challenges are fueled and funded by the same billionaire class whose apparent greatest fear is an equitable, affordable, and prosperous nation and city for all not just the very few. but, we have been here before as a city and a country, and we have won before and we will win again on november 4th. because, queen, it has always been in our nation's darkest chapters that our brightest lights emerge. and, we, each and every one of us, whether we like it or not, are living history today. from our nation's beginning, american democracy has always reflected the struggle between humanity's highest and lowest natures, between subjects and citizens, the confederacy and the union, freedom, and bondage, labor, and capital rights and regimes. and, it is no different today, the struggle of our time today, the thing is the single most unjust concentration of wealth in the hands of a very few unseen in our nation's history and the world's history. and, it is a time such as this, in which demanding what should be considered the most basic tenets of human dignity, that is considered a radical and outlandish act. it is a time such as today, when demanding affordable housing is considered a radical and outlandish act, that we can afford our lives, our groceries, our transit, is considered an outlandish and radical act, that we accept our neighbor as ourselves, a radical and outlandish act. but, we must remember, in a time such as this, we are not the crazy ones new york city. we are not the outlandish ones new york city. they want us to think we are crazy, we are sane. to demand an affordable and decent housing, a decent wage, the right to healthcare, that we pay to care for our people instead of the flattening of palestinians and oppressed people abroad is not a radical act, it is basic and core humanity. that is why the election of zalron is as important as our cause today. child care, buses, rents and our rights. here in new york city, it is the jewel and the center of all that is possible in america. and on november 4th, we will prove that today. we will prove it to the world and we will prove it to the nation. and we will send a loud message to president donald trump that his authoritarianism is no good here. we will send a message that to ice, that secret police do not belong here. and we will demonstrate the heroism that exists in the everyday people throughout our city. heroism like that that we saw last week, a young woman in a polka dot dress standing up to a secret police officer in canal street, she is new york city. the young man in a white helmet jumping off his bicycle saying not in my neighborhood, that is new york city. the line cooks and the delivery workers every day serving and making sure that we are clothed and fed and that our children are cared for, that is america, new york city. that is who we fight for, that is what this victory is about. because new york, america, our freedoms and our future, when i think about what is happening throughout our nation today, and what donald trump has even done reflected symbolic of so much in his demolition of the white house. and the east wing. we see what he is doing to that and we must let him know that this injustice, no matter what he is doing, that house does not belong to him new york. it belongs to us, it belongs to the people of this country. and i want us all to remember and to know that the future, our future, is not determined by a death spoke in a house built by enslaved people. our future will be determined not in a house built by slaves but in a city built by free men, in a city built by unionists, and immigrants, and suffragists. the bricks laid by working people past, present, and future, the seamstresses and the unionists who paid for our rights in blood. this city was built by the irish escaping famine, italians fleeing fascism, jews escaping holocaust, black americans fleeing st. slavery and jim crow, latinos seeking a better life, native people standing for themselves, asian americans coming together in queens, in brooklyn, in the bronx, in manhattan, in st. maryland, in this country, in a vision to build the freest, toughest, and greatest city on earth. and we will not stop now new york. it is no surprise. nyc, baby, nyc. it is no surprise to me, new york, that it is new york, and that it is our great city, that we, our city, have chosen to adorn ourselves with the nation's greatest monument to freedom, the statue of liberty. and she reminds us every day that the central commitment of america is an unconditional freedom, precisely of the kind that cannot be bought, that is available to the huddled masses, yearning to be free. this is america, new york city. do not let them tell you any different. do not let them tell you that we are the exception, we are the rule, we are the standard, we are the acceptance, and we set the bar for america. i am talking to you, donald trump. there has been a day before his presidency, and there will be a day after. and it belongs to us. thank you, new york. i love you, new york. you have made my life possible. my mother's life possible. my father's life possible. all of our lives have been made possible by this great city, and by our shared contract and bond to one another. and it is my honor tonight to introduce to you all another great-born new yorker. from brooklyn. senator sanders and i. recently came in, we were in indiana last night. we both paid a visit to the home of the great eugene debs. and i had the honor of presenting senator sanders last night with the national eugene debs award. in which the foundation and the people who steward debs' legacy have honored senator sanders as the foremost leader and advocate for labor and clash struggle in the united states of america. and it remains such a great privilege and honor to call him a friend, a mentor, a treasured person that we had and a new yorker. and so i know we all love him so dearly. and so let us make sure that we give him the biggest rousing welcome that he receives this year in introducing senator bernie sanders. thank you new york. and let me thank the people of new york for sending alexandria to the u.s. congress. she is not only one of the great members of congress, she is inspiring working people and young people all across the country. thank you new york. everybody knows that a new york city may as race attracts a lot of attention. that is not new. in the country you have 8 million people, everybody is interested in what happens here. but this may as race, my friends is different. it is not just the folks here in new york city who are paying attention. it is not just people all across our country who are watching this race. it is not just the president of the united states who seems to be very, very concerned about who is the president of the united states. and about who wins this election. the truth is that people all over the world are paying attention to what will happen here a week from tuesday. so why is that? why has this campaign created such an unbelievable amount of interest literally all over the world? and the answer is obvious. these are not normal times. this is not a normal election. this election takes place at a moment in american history when we have a rigged economy with more income and wealth inequality than we have ever had in the history of our country. this election takes place at a time when the wealthiest people in america have never ever had it so good while 60% of people in our country are living paycheck to paycheck, struggling to pay their rent or mortgage, struggling to afford childcare or higher education for their kids, struggling to afford healthcare, struggling to afford decent quality food, struggling how to figure out how they will retire with some shred of dignity after working their entire lives. this election takes place when the united states of america, the wealthiest country in the history of the world has one of the highest rates of childhood poverty and senior poverty of almost any nation. and when in this rich country 800,000 americans, including many veterans, are homeless. this election takes place at a time when we have a president who has given a trillion dollars in tax breaks to the top 1%. has given 900 billion in tax breaks to the largest corporations in our country. and to pay for those tax breaks, he is throwing 15 million americans off the healthcare they have by slashing medicaid. and in addition, he is forcing over 20 million americans to see a doubling in their healthcare premiums. this election is taking place when we have an administration in washington which every day is moving us toward an authoritarian society undermining our constitution and the rule of law. this election is taking place when we have a corrupt campaign finance system which allows billionaires in both political parties to select the candidates they want and to buy elections. ordinary americans get one vote, you get one vote, meanwhile billionaires get the opportunity to spend as much as they want to elect the candidates they want. that is the context in which this election is taking place. that is why this election is so enormously important and that is why zoran mandani must become the next mayor of new york. new york must have a mayor who represents the working families of this city, not the billion ass less. the reason why this campaign has generated so much interest around the world and so much excitement is that people want to know the answer to one very simple question. and that is in the year 2025 when the people on top have never ever had so much economic and political power. is it possible for ordinary people for working class people to come together and defeat those oligots? you are damn right we can. let me tell you something else. at a moment when americans are extremely distressed about where we are as a nation economically and politically a victory here in new york will give hope and inspiration to people throughout our country and throughout the world. that is what this election is about and that is why donald trump is paying attention to this election. ordinary people working class people black and white and latino asian gay and straight coming together to take on the oligarchy that is trump's worst nightmare. trump and his oligarchy friends know that if new yorkers come together and elect zoran we can do that from california to maine we can defeat the oligarchy. and what the oligarchs fear what they fear is that people will start understanding that this country belongs to us not them. and all over the country when people are inspired when people are standing up to power they will ask some very simple questions. why are we in the united states the only major country not to guarantee health care at all as a human right? why are not we paying our teachers the salaries they deserve? so that we can have the best public educational system in the world. why are not we doing what used to exist in new york and all over this country 70 years ago make public colleges and universities tuition free? why in the richest country on earth are we ending homelessness and building five million units of low income and affordable housing? why do not we make it easier for workers to join unions? and why do not we raise the national minimum wage to a living wage? and with so many of our seniors are struggling to cover their basic needs some 22% of seniors in america are trying to survive on $15,000 a year less. why are not we raising social security benefits and providing pensions to the workers in this country who does not really need them? and why do not we have a foreign policy which does not spend billions of dollars on a netting yaw government starving children in gaza? in other words, in other words, my friends, in other words, my friends, a victory for iran will help americans understand. that in the richest country in the history of the world there is nothing we cannot accomplish. now the oligarchs and the political establishment in new york tell us that the iran's agenda for new york is radical. but really, at a time when working families in this city are finding it hard to live here because of the outrageously high cost of housing, i do not think it is radical to say that the city should freeze the rent and trip will at stock of affordable housing. that am not radical. at a time when working families cannot afford the high cost of childcare and psychologists tell us the most important years of human development intellectual and emotional are zero through four. why should not we have a situation where every child in america gets the best quality childcare we can provide? that am not radical. taking care of our kids is not radical. at a time when getting to work is too expensive and we want to encourage more utilization of public transportation, it is not a radical idea to say that buses in this city should be free and fast. at a time when every parent wants their kids eating good quality food, not junk food, and there are neighborhoods in this city where it is simply not affordable or possible to get that food. it is not a radical idea to say that there should be uniscibly funded grocery stores. and by the way, when billionaires and large corporations and the very wealthy are doing extraordinarily well, when the very richest people in this country often pay an effective tax rate lower than truck drivers on nurses. it is not a radical idea to say that the rich should start paying their fair share of taxes. brothers and sisters, brothers and sisters, these ideas are not radical. they are common sense and they are what the people of new york city want and need. let me be very clear. as someone who served as mayor of burlington for eight years, a city just a little bit smaller than new york. i can tell you absolutely that being mayor is not an easy job. in local government, the people hold you accountable for everything. for picking up the trash, for crime problems, for the quality of education that kids receive, for traffic jams, blame the mayor. and that is what mayors have to deal with. and it is not easy. so ron mumbani is mayor is not going to have all the answers. the problems facing this country and every other major city in america are in fact enormous. so let me say this to you from the bottom of my heart. when he is elected, your job is not over. ron, we are going to need your help every single day. in this unprecedented moment in our nation's history, all of us together must act in an unprecedented way. and that means governing new york city and other cities in an unprecedented way. please do everything you can to work with ron in order to make him and his administration the best administration in the history of new york. let me conclude by saying this. and i say this again as somebody who became mayor of burlington from in 1981 by winning that election by 10 votes after reckout. now i have looked at the polls here in new york. you have seen it. and the polls suggest that ron is in the lead and that is great. but please, please, please do not underestimate our opponents. they have a huge amount of money and they are spending it right now. so i urge you to get about the polls. go into the last eight days of this election assuming that you are five points behind. so what you guys are going to have to do along with the other 80,000 volunteers in the bumdami campaign. you have got to do everything that you can to bring people to the polls in early voting, which is taking place right now and on election day. none of us want to wake up the day after the election and find that we lost that election because our opponents outworked us. that must not happen. brothers and sisters, a year ago, very few people in new york knew about a 33-year-old assemblyman named siran mandani. and when he first entered this race for mail, he was polling at all of 1%. nobody knew who this guy was. but siran did what people who are serious about real change always do. he created a campaign from the bottom on up by building an extraordinary and unprecedented grassroots movement which now has tens of thousands of volunteers. unlike his opponents, he did not go running to the billionaires for campaign contributions. he went to the people with an agenda that made sense to them and despite being outspent four to one, siran won the primary. brothers and sisters, with your help over the next eight days, this young man is going to make american history. it is my honor to introduce the next mayor of the city of new york, siran mandani. siran mandani is the first mayor of the city of new york to be a member of the city of new york. siran mandani is the first mayor of the city of new york to be a member of the city of new york. siran mandani is the first mayor of the city of new york to be a member of the city of new york. good evening new york city. how are we all doing? how are you? it is so good to see you all here tonight. now, as you know, a politician is only as good as the team around him. so, i have to ask that team to start up this teleprompter because right now it is off the top of the dome. and while we wait, why do not we actually begin? can we first hear a round of applause for our incredible mc, sarah sherman? can we hear it for the elected officials, the labor leaders of the new yorkers who have joined us this evening? and can we hear it for congresswoman alexandria ocasio-cortez? you know, there are many things one can say about our congresswoman, but i want to tell you a story about 2021. when we went on a 15-day hunger strike and won $450 million in debt relief for working class taxi drivers. the congresswoman was there with us on that picket line. she was there with us on the phone after everyone else had gone home. and she was there with us again in the primary of this election. and that is because she is there for working people. and now we are just getting started. and let us please make some noise for senator bernie sanders. i stand before you tonight only because the senator dared to stand alone for so long. i speak the language of democratic socialism only because he spoke at first. and when i ran for state assembly almost six years ago to the day, it was at bernie's rally in queens bridge park where i led our first canvas. and i am signing people up for our email list, asking them for five or ten dollars and encouraging them to believe that the politics of not me us applied to our state government just as much as our national one. when we win on november 4th, and then governed from city hall with dignity as the foundation of our politics, it will be because of the movement that bernie built. and before you tonight as the nominee of a democratic party reinvigorated in its pursuit of making government work for everyone not just the wealthy and the well connected. looking out at more than 13,000 of you here in forrest hill stadium. it is tempting to believe that this moment was always destined. yet when we launched this campaign on october 23rd, one year and three days ago, there was not a single television camera there to cover it. when we launched this campaign one year and three days ago, my name was a statistical anomaly in every poll. once later, as recently as this february, our support had reached the eye watering heights of one percent. we were tied with noted candidate, someone else. i always knew we could beat him. when we launched this campaign one year and three days ago, the political world did not pay it much attention because we were looking to build a movement that reflected the city as it actually is, not just the one that political consultants think exists on a spreadsheet. when we launched this campaign one year and three days ago, we were dismissed as a punchline in the halls of power. the idea of fundamentally changing who government serves in the city was unimaginable. even if we gained momentum they asked, how would we ever overcome the tens of millions of dollars in attacks that would follow? yet we knew then what we know now. new york is not for sale. as young people showed up in record numbers, as immigrants saw themselves in the politics of their city, as seniors once skeptical dared to dream again, we spoke with one voice, new york is not for sale. and now, as we stand on the precipice of taking this city back from corrupt politicians and the billionaires that fund them, let our words ring out so loud tonight that andrew cuomo can hear them in his $8,000 a month apartment. let them ring so loud so that he can hear us even if he is in westchester this evening. let them ring so loud that his puppet master in the white house hears us. new york is not for sale. 13 days after we announced our candidacy, donald trump won the presidency once again. the bronx and queens saw some of the largest shifts to the right of any counties in our country. no matter what article you read or channel you turn to, the stories seem to be the same. our city was headed to the right. obituary's were written about democrats' abilities to reach asian voters, young voters, male voters, again and again we were told that if we had any hope of beating the republican party, it would only be by becoming the republican party. andrew cuomo himself said that we had lost not because we had failed to speak to the needs of working class americans, but because we had spent too much time talking about bathrooms and sports teams. this was a moment where it seemed our political horizon was narrowing and in this moment new york you had a choice, a choice to retreat or to fight. and the choice that we made was to stop listening to those experts and to start listening to you. we went to two of the places that saw the biggest swings to the right, fordham road and hillside avenue. these new yorkers were far from the caricature of trump voters. they told us they supported donald trump because they felt disconnected from a democratic party that had grown comfortable with mediocrity and gave its time only to those who gave millions. they told us that they felt abandoned by a party beholden to corporations which asked them for their votes after telling them only what it was against rather than presenting a vision of what it was for. they told us they did not believe in a system anymore that it not even pretend to offer solutions to the defining challenge of their lives, the cost of living crisis. brent was too expensive, so were groceries, so was childcare, so was taking the bus and working two or three jobs still was not enough. trump for all his many flaws had promised them an agenda that would put more money in their pockets and lower the cost of living. donald trump lied. it was up to us to deliver for the working people he left behind. over the eight months of the primary, we told new yorkers how we intended to address that very same affordability crisis. we did not do it alone. this was a movement powered by tens of thousands of everyday new yorkers who knocked doors between 12 hour shifts at work and phoned banked until their fingers were numb. people who had never voted before became die hard canvases. community formed. our city got to know each other and itself. this, my friends, was your movement. and it always will be. as the snow melted in the frost thawed, this campaign began to grow faster than anyone ever imagined possible. so many small donors chipped in that we had to ask you to stop donating. please stop. we climbed the polls faster than andrew cuomo could dial donald trump's number. people started to learn how to pronounce my name. and the billionaires got scared. or as the new york times would describe it, the hamptons was basically in group therapy about the mayoral race. andrew cuomo and his corporate cronies did everything they could to make this campaign one of fear and one of smallest. they pumped millions into this race. artificial lengthened my beard to make me seem menacing. painted our city as a dystopian hellhole and worked night and day to divide the people of new york. they failed. when i walked the length of manhattan just a few days before the election, hundreds of new yorkers marched alongside me. and when we strode into times square under a billboard with betting odds that showed cuomo's chances of winning at nearly 80%. and we knew that the so-called experts were set to get it wrong yet again. andrew cuomo was supposed to be inevitable. and then on june 24th, we shattered that inevitability. we won by 13%. with the most votes in any citywide primary in new york city history. some of those new yorkers had voted for trump. many others had never voted before. and when andrew cuomo called me to concede at 10.15 that night. he said over the phone that we had created a tremendous force. when you insist on building a coalition with room for every new yorker, that is exactly what you create a tremendous force. that force has only grown over these past four months. we now have more than 90,000 volunteers. and we have spoken to millions more new yorkers. we have put forth new plans in these last few months for how we will govern, hiring thousands more teachers for our schools. taking on the consultants and the contracts in city government. and tackling the final boss of new york city infrastructure. scaffolding. but over the past few weeks as this race has entered its final days. we have witnessed displays of islamophobia that shocked the conscience. andrew cuomo, eric adams and curtis leua do not have an agenda for the future. all they possess is the playbook of the past. they have sought to make this election a referendum not on the affordability crisis that consumes new yorker's lives. but on the faith i belong to and the hatred they seek to normalize. we spent months working to convince the world that new yorkers have a right to afford this city that we all love. now we are being forced to defend the idea that a muslim is even allowed to lead it. these same big money donors and disgrace politicians have sought to rob us of our ambition. because they do not think that you deserve the beauty of a dignified life. and time and again they have encouraged you to imagine less. because they know that a reimagined new york hurts their bottom line. i believe that this city is like the universe constantly expanded. we deserve a city government as ambitious as the working new yorkers who make it the greatest city in the world. we cannot wait for someone else to deliver it. we are not afforded the luxury of waiting because too often to wait is to trust those who delivered us to this point. on november 4th we will set the course of our city back in the direction it belongs. and in doing so we will answer a question that our nation has wrestled with from the dawn of our family. who is allowed to be free? there are some who hear that question and they know the answer without hesitation. they are the oligarchs who have accumulated vast wealth off those who labor from before the light breaks. the horizon until long after color has drained from the sky. these are the robber barons of america and they believe their money affords them a larger say than the rest of us. i am not just talking about the bill akman's and ken langones of the world. i speak of people whose names you are not familiar with who have no qualms about contributing more to super pacs than we would ever tax them and who celebrate when those pacs flood our airwaves with commercials that plaster the words global jihad over my face. their freedom does not just come at the expense of dignity and truth. it comes at the expense of the freedoms of others too. they are the authoritarians who seek to keep us pressed beneath their thumbs because they know that once we shake ourselves loose we will never be held down again. each and every one of these people think new york is for sale. for too long my friends freedom has belonged only to those who can afford to buy it. the oligarchs of new york are the wealthiest people in the wealthiest city in the wealthiest nation in the history of the world. they do not want the equation to change. they will do everything they can to prevent their grip from weakening. the truth is as simple as it is non-negotiable. we are all allowed freedom. each one of us, the working people of this city, the taxi drivers, the line cooks, the nurses. all those seeking lives of grace not greed we all get to be free. and on november 4th thanks to the hard work of more than 90,000 volunteers across every corner of this city. that is exactly what we will tell the world. because while donald trump's billionaire donors think that they have the money to buy this election we have a movement of the masses. and we are a movement that is not afraid of what we believe. and we have believed it for quite some time. those who worry about what this movement may look like on january 1st are the ones who worried on october 23rd what it may look like tonight. but our purpose has not changed and neither have our promises. as i said on the evening i announced the job of government is to actually make our lives better. and in the exact words i said on october 23rd, here is what we stand for, my friends. we are going to freeze the rent for more than 2 million rent stabilized tenants. and use every resource at our disposal to build housing for everyone who needs it. we are going to eliminate the fair on every single bus line and make what are currently the slowest buses in the nation move around this city with ease. and we are going to create universal childcare at no cost to parents. and all new yorkers can raise their family in the city they love. together new york, we are going to freeze the together new york we are going to make buses fast and together new york we are going to deliver our universal. we will make our city one where every person who calls it home can live a dignified life. no new yorker should ever be priced out of anything they need to survive. and we believe then we believe today we will believe tomorrow that it is government's job to deliver that dignity. dignity my friends is another way of saying freedom. standing before you this evening i take great strength from those who have labored mightily for the cause of freedom in america who refused to accept that government could not meet what moments of crisis demanded from them. when the power of the people overwhelms the influence of the powerful there is no crisis that government cannot meet. it was government that enacted a new deal to lift a generation out of poverty to create beautiful public goods and establish the right to unionize and collectively bargain. my friends the era of government that deems an issue too small or a crisis too big must come to an end. because we need a government that is every bit as ambitious as our adversaries. a government strong enough to refuse the realities we will not accept and forge the future we know we deserve. a government that refuses to accept one in four new yorkers living in poverty. that refuses to accept more than 150,000 public school students being homeless. that refuses to accept that two union salaries are not enough to put down a mortgage in this city. a government that refuses to accept you being priced out of the very city you helped to build every single day. time and again our nation has teetered on the precipice of hopelessness. now is one of those times but in each of these moments working people have reached into the darkness and reshaped our democracy. no longer will we allow the republican party to be the one of ambition. no longer will we have to open a history book to read about democrats leading with big ideas. my friends the world is changing. it is not a question of whether that change will come. it is a question of who will change it. we have an opportunity before us that you have ever received and even fewer have ceased. it is the opportunity to show the world what it means to win freedom. it is the opportunity to live up to the legacy left by those who came before. we do not get to determine the scale of a crisis. our choice is how we respond. let us win a city hall that works for those straining to buy groceries, not those straining to buy our democracy. let us look forward to january 1st when the hard work of governing will begin. those in power would like to describe our policy commitments as if they are illusions that will evaporate as soon as we approach city hall. let us show them instead that they are invocations of the future that we will win. and let us prove to each and every new yorker that a politics of expansion does not just mean imagination. it insists upon fulfillment. we can make city hall a place where new yorkers come to expect the future, not just failure. but we are not there yet. just as andrew cuomo's victory in the primary was thought to be inevitable, the same narrative it started to form around us today. when you read the articles that tell a post-election story of triumph while we are amidst early voting, when you see the kalshi odds that have our chances of victory in the 90s, know this. you are reading the same things that andrew cuomo read when he went to sleep each night in june, believing that his victory was promised. we cannot allow complacency to infiltrate this movement. so over these nine final days, i ask for only one thing from each of you. more. i know you are tired. and for that, i recommend some adhani chai. and still, i ask for more. i know the attacks have intensified that a warm bed is more inviting than a six-floor walk-up, that another evening spent knocking doors after a long workday feels daunting. and still, i ask for more. i ask for more because that is the only way that we win a future of more. so if you are able, i urge you my friends, stand up. if you have knocked a door, turn your flashlight on. if you have more to give, turn your flashlight on. together, let us make a light bright enough to banish any darkness. over these final nine days and the months and years that follow, the powers that be will throw everything in their arsenal against us. they will spend millions more dollars. they will attack us from every conceivable angle. but we will not bend. we will not flinch. we will triumph over the oligarchs and we will return dignity to our lives. nearly 89 years ago to the day, fdr spoke before a crowd of thousands at madison square garden. he said, i should like to have it said of my first administration that in it, the forces of selfishness and of lust for power met their match. i should like to have it said of my second administration that in it, these forces met their master. my friends, i should like to have it said of our campaign that in it, the forces of selfishness and lust for power met their match. and i should like to have it said of our city hall that in it, these forces met their master. new york, our work has only just begun. on november 4th, we set ourselves free. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you.