thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you, new hampshire. thank you, new hampshire. let me take this opportunity. so thank the people of the hampshire for a great victory tonight. and let me thank the thousands of volunteers in the hampshire. thank you. who knocked on doors in the rain and the snow and the cold. the reason that we won tonight in the hampshire we won last week in iowa. it is because of the hard work of so many volunteers. and let me say tonight that this victory here is the beginning of the end for donald trump. with victories behind us, popular vote in iowa and the victory here tonight. we are going to nevada. we are going to south carolina. we are going to win those states as well. and tonight i want to take the opportunity to express my appreciation and respect for all of the democratic candidates. we ran against. amy clovichar, elizabeth warren, joe biden. and what i can tell you with absolute certainty and i know i speak for every one of the democratic candidates is that no matter who wins and we certainly hope it is going to be us. we are going to unite together. we are going to unite together and defeat the most dangerous president in the modern history of this country. and the reason i believe we are going to win is that we have an unprecedented grassroots movement from coast to coast of millions of people. the reason that we are going to win is that we are putting together an unprecedented multigenerational, multiracial political movement. and this is a movement from coast to coast which is demanding that we finally have an economy and a government that works for all of us not wealthy campaign contributors. and i want to thank all of those people who have worked and contributed to our campaign but make the point that in this point in the campaign we are taking on billionaires and we are taking on candidates funded by billionaires. but we are going to win because we have the agenda that speaks to the needs of working people throughout this country. health care is a human right not a privilege. the wealthy and powerful will start paying their fair share of taxes. we will make public colleges and universities to wish it free and cancel all student debt. unlike donald trump, we know that climate change is very real and an existential crisis for our planet. we are prepared to tell the fossil fuel industry that their short term profits are not more important than the future of our planet. we are going to end a racist and broken criminal justice system. we are going to pass comprehensive immigration reform. we are going to have a lot of gun safety policies determined by the american people not the nra. and under our administration it will be women not the government who control their own lives. our campaign is not just about beating trump, it is about transforming this country. it is about having the courage to take on wall street, the insurance companies, the drug companies, the fossil fuel industry, the military industrial complex. so tonight i want to thank the people of the hampshire for this great victory, thank our volunteers and urge all americans to join our effort to transform this country at berniesandis.com. it is on to nevada, it is on to south carolina, it is on to win the democratic nomination and together. together i have no doubt that we will defeat donald trump. thank you all very much. thank you all very much.