today, we will be considering the nominations of well-qualified individuals to serve in the epa, the tennessee valley authority, federal highway administration and the southwest board of regional commission, and we will also be considering the adoption of gsa leases, including 18 million, for much need-repairs at a federal building in st. oldman's for a month. let me very briefly discuss my concerns about one of the nominees of the consideration of joe goughlin, who has been nominated to lead the epa's office of air and radiation. i have nothing against mr. goughlin, and i hope and expect that he will do a very good job in the position that he has been nominated for. what i am concerned about is the implementation of a provision that i worked on with chairman copper, that was included in the inflation reduction act to provide the epa with $7 billion in federal funding for zero emissions technology. the legislative intent of this program is to make it more affordable, the low income and working-class homeowners to install solar on their rooftops and save money on their electricity bills. and by the way, when we do that, we create hundreds of thousands of good paying chops. if this program is implemented properly, it will provide solar to more than two million families in the united states over the next two years and catalyze up to 10 million residential solar installations over the next 10 years. unfortunately, since president biden signed the inflation reduction act in august, i have been unable to get a firm commitment in writing from the epa to implement this program consistent with the clear legislative intent. the $7 billion program was not put into the inflation reduction act for nuclear, electric vehicle charging stations, or any other type of energy. it was included in this bill primarily to expand residential solar and reduce the energy bills of millions of low income and middle-class families. so let me be clear, i will be voting for mr. goffman in this committee, but i will not support his nomination on the senate floor until i receive a commitment from the epa in writing that it will implement this program primarily to expand residential solar throughout this country. i want to thank chairman copper for his leadership on this issue and look forward to our continued work together to expand residential solar, lower the cost of electricity for consumers, and combat the existential threat of climate change. thank you very much. thank you, senator sanders. senator sanders, i am pleased to be able to work with you and your team, my— thank you, mr. president. i want to take this opportunity to say a few words not only about the negotiations between railroad workers and the railroad management, but also to put that crisis into a broad economic context. mr. president, it seems clear to me, and i think the polls indicated that the americans and american people are becoming increasingly disgusted by the corporate greed they are seeing and experiencing every single day. they look out around them and they see three people on top owning more wealth than the bottom half of american society. they see corporate profits soaring while the prices they pay for the products they need continue to go up. they see ceos of major corporations now making 400 times more than the average worker at that corporation. they have seen during this terrible pandemic when tens of thousands of workers died because they had to go to work. they have seen the billionaire class make $2 trillion more in their wealth. further, they look around them and while the very wealthiest people in america become much richer, they walk down the street and they see people sleeping out on the sidewalks. we have almost 600,000 americans who are homeless. people cannot afford their health care cost. we have 85 million americans who are uninsured or under-adjured. in other words, the economy is doing really, really, really well for ceos and billionaires. for the average american worker, he or she is falling further and further behind. now within that broad context of what is happening in the overall economy, let us take a look at what is going on in the rail industry today and why congress is being asked to implement a union contract with rail workers to avoid a strike that could take place as early as december 9th. it turns out that when we talk about the extraordinary level of corporate greed in america, there is no better example of that than what is taking place in the rail industry today. they are the purest example of why the american people are so angry at what is taking place in our economy. if you look at the rail industry today, what you will understand is that this industry has seen huge, wrecked, breaking profits in recent years. huge profits. in fact, in the first three quarters, not a whole year, three quarters of this year, the rail industry made a record-breaking $21 billion in profit. further, they have so much money. profits are so high that the industry spent over $25 billion this year not to improve rail safety, not to address the supply chain crisis, but to buy back its own stock and hand out huge dividends to its wealthy stockholders. in fact, since 2010, and i hope every member of congress hears this, the rail industry has spent over $183 billion on stock buybacks and dividends. on top of all of that, the ceos of many of these railroad companies are enjoying huge compensation packages. so, while workers struggle, last year, the ceo of csx made over $20 million in total compensation. the ceo of union pacific and norfolk southern made over $14 million each in total compensation. in other words, within the rail industry, corporate profits are soaring and ceos are making incredibly large compensation packages. but in the midst of all of that, it is fair to ask what is going on for workers, profits, record breaking, ceos, tens of millions of dollars a year in compensation, what is going on for the workers in the rail industry? and the reality is that the key issue in the rail dispute that we are dealing with right now, vote's taking place as we speak in the house, is not about salaries, not about how much money workers there are earning. the key issue is the working conditions in the rail industry which are absolutely unacceptable and literally beyond belief. right now, if you work in the freight rail industry, and this is a job in the rail industry, this is really hard work, dangerous work, it is work to take places, takes place when it is going to be 20 below zero. if you are a worker in the rail freight industry, you are entitled to a grand total of zero sick days. let me repeat that. you are entitled to a grand total of zero sick days. now as a nation, industry after industry, government after government here in congress, our people get sick, they have the right to take time off. it is humane, nobody, not the most conservative member of this institution would say to a worker, oh you got covid, you are fired, it was unbelievable. and yet, what this means, the policy in the rail industry means is if you get sick, if your child gets sick, if your spouse gets sick and you need to take time off of work, not only will you not get paid, you actually will get reprimanded and could get fired. and that absurd inhumane situation is precisely what is taking place today in the rail industry. mr. president, let me remind you and all of our colleagues that hundreds of americans are still dying every day from covid and tens of thousands are being hospitalized as a result of this terrible virus. what the freight rail industry is saying to its workers is this, it does not matter. if you have covid, it does not matter if you are lying in a hospital bed because of a medical emergency, it does not matter if your wife has just given birth, it just does not matter. if you do not come into work no matter what the reason, we have the right to punish you, we have the right to fire you. frankly, it is hard to believe that these conditions still exist in the united states of america in the year 2022. let me give you just a few examples that i am familiar with hearing from workers. one rail worker was penalized by the railroads for spending the day in the hospital with his son who was having breathing issues. another worker could not take his pregnant wife to the doctor because it could have resulted in disciplinary action for him. tragically, we witnessed the death of a locomotive engineer who was forced to skip his doctor's appointment after experiencing unusual symptoms only to suffer a heart attack and die in an engine room weeks later. and here is what one rail worker recently said. i am tired of being tired all day every day and having every one of my coworkers being physically sick from sleep deprivation. most of my coworkers cannot stay awake anymore during a 12 hour trip end of quote. that is one rail worker. mr. president, there is absolutely no reason why these workers should have to deal with these conditions in the richest country in the history of the world. and i won the president if the ceos, the ceos in the railroad industry or other top executives in this industry, i wonder if they get fired when they do not get into the office because of sickness or when they have a medical emergency in their families. so i think is, in fact, the head of the team says recently said this on a brian that, you know, what is good for the ceos in terms of paid sick leave is good for employees as well and i think he is absolutely right. whatever i should add, as everybody knows, that quite sensibly the federal government guarantees 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave to its worker. so if you are an employee, for example, at the department of transportation in the united states of america sitting behind the desk, you are appropriately, appropriately guaranteed 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave. but if you are an engineer running a train with tons of freight behind you, you get zero sick time. now that may make sense to somebody, but it does not make sense to me. as a result of this incredibly reactionary policy of denying work at sick time, rail conductors, engineers and other rail employees are coming into work sick and exhausted, which is a danger not only to themselves, but to their co-workers and everyone else who is around them. the work they do is dangerous work. as the president, the united states, sadly, is the only major country on earth that does not guarantee paid sick days. we have seen that we hope to remedy. we try to remedy and we have to continue going forward so that we do remedy. it is a bit of an embarrassment that of all the major countries on earth. we are the only one not the guaranteed paid sick days. in germany, workers are entitled to as many as 84 weeks of paid sick leave at 70 percent of their salary, depending upon how serious the illness is, and countries all depending upon how serious the illness is, and countries all over the world, and one way or another, have generous policies that recognize that in a modern civilized society, if you get sick, if your kids get sick, your wife or husband gets sick, you are entitled as a worker to have paid sick leave. but while government workers here in the united states and in many, many industries, many companies, guaranteed their workers, paid sick leave, rail workers in the united states of america today, and year 2022, are guaranteed zero paid sick days, zero. now the rail industry has told us that they cannot afford to provide paid sick days to their employees. instead of sitting down and negotiating with their unions to bring about a reasonable compromise, for the past three years, the rail industry has refused to agree to a single day of guaranteed paid sick leave to its workers. they say it would cost too much money to provide their workers any paid sick days. now let us see. they move over, they made over $21 billion in profits so far this year. they provide their ceos with huge compensation packages. they spent 25 and a half billion to buy back their own stock and hand out huge dividends to their wealthy stockholders. but they are just too broke, too financially hot pressed to guarantee paid sick days to their employees. so here is where we are, mr. president. interestingly enough, it turns out the guaranteeing seven paid sick days to rail workers would cost the industry a grand total of $321 million a year, a tiny fraction of the 21 billion in profits that they have already made. if the major rail carriers can afford to spend 25 and a half billion dollars a year on stock buybacks and dividends, do not tell me that they cannot afford to guarantee paid sick days to their workers and allow these workers to have a reasonable quality of life. mr. president, the outrage over the lack of paid sick leave is not the only issue that rail workers in america have been fighting for. the rail workers of this country are sick and tired of unreliable scheduling, which is having a negative impact on their personal and family lives. in america today, rail workers are on call for up to 14 consecutive days, 12 hours a day. in fact, it is not uncommon for many rail workers to be on call nearly 24 hours a day with a requirement to report to work within 90 minutes for shifts that can last nearly 80 hours. now mr. president, as you know, last september president biden and labor secretary walsh worked with the rail industry and union leaders to come up with a tentative agreement that was better than what the rail industry had been offering. but this agreement still does not require the industry to provide a single day of paid sick leave to workers. i thank president biden and secretary walsh for their efforts, but congress can and must do better. and that is why i will be introducing legislation to guarantee paid sick days to every rail worker in america. and i will insist on a roll call vote in the senate on this legislation as part of any unanimous consent required to vote on the tentative rail deal. now mr. president, i hope very much and i think we may have bipartisan support for this modest legislation. and i would hope and i have talked to republicans who indicate that they are prepared to support the workers. but i would say to every member of this body, democrat republican, that think long and hard about how you go home to your constituents and say, i voted against allowing rail workers in this country seven paid sick days. so i hope and think about how you can explain that vote. and mr. president, that is be clear. it is not just the rail unions and bernie sanders who believe that working conditions on the railroads with no guaranteed sick leave is wrong and inhumane. it turns out that the view is shared by some of the railroads major business customers who are seeing a decline in the service that they are receiving and that they need. let me quote from a recent op ed by eric bial, the president and ceo of the national association of chemical distributors who wrote an update entitled, railroads should give workers the benefits they see. and here is what mr. baya wrote. and again, this is a business organization that wants to make sure that their product is delivered on the railroads in a reasonable period of time and on schedule. and mr. baya writes quote, to say the paid sick leave policy for rail workers is woefully inadequate would be an understatement. the negotiated agreement does not include any significant measures to improve quality of life issues. several workers today have zero time allotted to them by their freight rail employers for sick leave. according to the bureau of labor statistics, private sector workers receive seven to eight days of sick leave per year. a fragile and volatile supply chain requires a strong rail network. now is not the time to deny reasonable benefits for a labor community that has been decimated by losses in recent years. it is time for the freight industry to write this wrong and get rail back on track end of quote. that is from the chemical distributors and important customer of the railroads. and it is not just the chemical distributors and i want people to hear what the chairman of the surface transportation board, martin overman, had to say about the horrendous working conditions in the rail industry at a conference with rail executives earlier this month. and here is what mr. overman said quote, when railroads try to excuse their failures by pointing to labor shortages at other businesses, those other businesses did not enter the pandemic having stripped themselves of nearly 20% of their workforce in recent years. today the railroads tell us they are still having a hard time recruiting and retaining workers and try to blame this on the great resignation. the fact is the railroads personnel practices made these jobs much less desirable. and according to mr. overman, the railroad industry has slashed its workforce by 10% since the pandemic started slashing some 13,000 jobs. and he continued, again this is mr. overman saying quote, class one rail companies over the past two and a half years saved roughly 4.8 billion in payroll during the same two and a half years. the class one rail companies have returned nearly 60 billion to stockholders and stock buybacks and dividends more than 12 times what they saved in payroll. like the shareholders have been satisfied with only 55 billion in buybacks and dividends apparently not. 4.8 billion in saved payroll would have been a drop in the bucket but the operating ratio had to be met end of quote. so what are you saying? what i think many of us understand is the railroads are making huge profits. they have seen their profit margins nearly triple over the past 20 years and during the last six years they have reduced their workforce by 30%. you want to make more money? that is the way you do it. you cut back on your workforce. and now they are in a situation where they are telling workers if you get covid you are going to get fired. so clearly we need to rethink the entire business model of the rail industry. so right now the issue before us is not complicated. and that is that in an industry which is enjoying record breaking profits and industry which laid off 30% of its workforce in the last six years and industry which gives its ceos huge compensation packages. now is the time for that industry to respect its workers and treat them with the dignity that all working people are entitled to. so mr. president we are an important moment not just for the rail industry not only for rail workers. the issue is whether or not this united states senate will join the house and my understand is that the house just passed paid sick leave seven days they did the right thing and i want to applaud the members of the house for doing the right thing and now it is going to come here to the senate. do we stand with workers in the rail industry and say yes you are right. working conditions are horrendous. we cannot continue a process by which you have zero paid sick leave. do we stand with workers or do we stand with an industry that is making huge profits, pays us ceos absorb in it, salaries and treats its working workers with contempt. that is the choice that the senate will soon be having to make and i hope very much that in a bipartisan way we can do the right thing and tell the rail workers and tell every worker in america that the united states congress is prepared to stand with them and not just the people on top who are doing extraordinarily well and with that mr. president i would yield before. mr. president. the side of working families who are struggling every day. she is on the side of raising the minimum wage to a living wage. she is on the side of making it easier for workers to join unions. she is on the side of saying that healthcare is a human right and that every person in this country deserves healthcare. she is on the side of making it clear that all of our young people in this country no matter what their income is are entitled to higher education to wish it free at a public college or university. so that is what this campaign is about. nationally what the republicans want to do is give massive tax breaks to the very, very wealthiest people in this country and then cut social security medicare and medicaid. because of turning their back on the existential threat of climate change which is going to impact not only texas for a whole world. so the choice in this campaign is pretty clear. the turnout is not going to be high which means that every vote counts and we have got to do everything that we can. if people tell you this election does not matter, tell them it matters big time which party controls the house of the senate. now i will give you one more example. one, not one children remember. a couple of years ago we would not have had this rally because we would be in the midst of a terrible pandemic situation. we will remember that. remember thousands of americans dying every single day. at that point because democrats controls the house and the senate, marginally we have 50, 50 in the senate. we wrote the american rescue plan. and i want you to remember what we did with that plan. in the midst of a pandemic, in the midst of a time when millions of workers were losing their jobs, we made sure that every man, woman and child in this country had to check a $1,400. remember that? yes! alright. that is a family of four, $5,600 bucks. that kept families afloat, prevented people from getting evicted from their apartments. now we are being attacked for doing that but i make no apologies for doing that. in the midst of that pandemic and massive unemployment, we extended unemployment benefits so when workers lost their jobs, they had food on the table to feed their kids. in the midst of that pandemic when hospitals were overflowing with covid patients, some of them were on the verge of collapse. we put billions of dollars to strengthen hospitals. we made sure that every parent in this country got a check of $300 a month per child. remember that? yes! that up matter? yes! alright. that is what we did without one bloody republican vote. it was expensive. yes, it was expensive. it was worth it because we saved lives, we saved dignity. republicans have a different view. they want to spend their money by giving tax breaks to the rich and cutting programs for working families. that is what this election is about. we need michelle in the congress. let us go out and knock on doors. let us talk to our friends. let us bring people out to the voting polls. plus, make sure michelle is the next congresswoman from this district. thank you. you have your own name. good evening. no question about it. while we do not have the final results yet, yesterday's midterm elections turned out far better than people had expected. and you made that happen. thank you. first, let me give a shout out to all those who came out and voted. voted turnout was high, especially in some battleground states like pennsylvania. without that kind of citizen participation and voter turnout, john federman would not have been elected to the u.s. senate. further on a personal note, let me thank the over 14,000 people who attended the 19 rallies that we recently held in oregon, california, nevada, texas, michigan, wisconsin, and pennsylvania. turnout was great and the energy level was high. let me especially thank the young people who overwhelmingly came out to vote not just for women's rights and gay rights and environmental justice and to protect our democracy, but also understand that we must have an economy, any government that works for all of us, not just for 1%. while the turnout among young people is still not as high as we would like, there is no doubt that young people played a decisive role in this election. young voters in pennsylvania, the hampshire and arizona supported democrats by over 70% landslide proportions and played a decisive role in electing senators, members of congress, governors, and members of the legislature. if there is anything that gives me hope about the future of our country, it is that our younger generation is the most progressive generation in history. this is a generation that has fought racism, sexism, homophobia, xenophobia, and bigotry of all kinds. in america and throughout the world, young people have also been leaders in the fight against climate change and the need to take on the greed and irresponsibility of the fossil fuel industry. what knows that there are a lot of important issues out there, the issue of women's right to control their own body, the issue of the attacks on the very foundation of our democracy by right-wing extremists, the issue of gun safety, and many others, but at a time of massive wealth and income inequality, let me also thank working class voters and union voters for standing up against corporate greed and voting for candidates who have the guts to stand up for the moneyed and powerful interests. i was happy to see that in the last few weeks of this campaign, many candidates made it clear that they were prepared to take on republicans who want to give huge tax breaks to the wealthiest people in our country and then cut social security, medicare, and medicaid, and i thank all of those candidates who raised that very, very important set of issues. let me also mention that last night was a great night for progressive candidates. despite the huge amount of money spent by billionaires and their superpacks against us in support of right-wing politicians, there will now be more strong progresses in the u.s. house than ever before in modern history. let me just name a few of them. let me take this opportunity to congratulate somalee on her resounding, strong victory in pennsylvania's 12th district, somoran a great grassroots campaign and was slurred on outside money from billionaires. she will be a great congresswoman from pittsburgh for the working families of our country. congratulations also to becca balant on her historic win. becca will be the first woman ever elected from my own state of vermont to the u.s. congress, and i look forward to working with her on behalf of vermont's families. texas, thank you very much for sending greg kazaugh to the u.s. congress. i know greg well enough to know that he will be a great leader in congress and i want to congratulate him on his great victory. congratulations to jasmine crockett on her victory last night in the 30th district of texas. jasmine will be a much needed voice for voting rights and for an economy that represents the needs of working families in texas and throughout our country. i also want to congratulate jonathan jackson, an old friend of mine, on his victory in the first district of illinois. jonathan understands the need for racial justice in this country and for the need to create an economy that works for all. congratulations to delia ramirez on her win last night. she has been a champion of working families and immigrants in illinois and i know that she will continue her fight for them in congress. congratulations to val hoyle on her win in oregon last night. val knows what it means to stand up for working people and fight for raising the minimum wage, passing paid sick and medical leave and for workers' rights and i very much looking look forward to working with val in washington. last but not least congratulations to maxwell frost on his historic victory in florida's 10th district. maxwell will be the first member of gen z elected to congress and i want to congratulate him on his historic victory. now i would not be telling you the truth. if i told you that we won everything last night, we certainly did not. some excellent progressive candidates lost and we are still not sure at this moment where the democrats will be controlling the senate and even possibly the house. but no matter what happens in that regard, tonight i am asking you to please stay engaged. please continue fighting for justice, economic justice, social justice, racial justice and environmental justice. last night, 58% of the electorate in the red state of nebraska voted to increase the minimum wage to 15 bucks an hour. with your help, we can and must do the same thing in washington for every worker in america. raise the minimum wage to a living wage. last night, a majority in the red state of missouri voted yes to legalize marijuana. with your help, we can and must legalize marijuana in every state in our country. last night, a majority in the red states of kentucky in montana joined the red state of kansas, invoting against ballot initiatives the ban abortion. with your help, we will codify roe v wade and make abortion legal in every state in america. last night, we beat back some very dark forces. you made that happen. that is what happens when people stand up and fight back. that needs us to say the struggle is far far from over. there is an enormous amount of work yet to be done. let us do it together and thank you all for what you are doing. take care. further and further, bob. and i want to say a word about this inflation. just from publicism to going around and they are saying inflation is a serious problem. it is. a lot of people are hurting. gas prices, food prices, drug prices, whatever they do. what they do not tell you is what the causes of inflation are. they want to blame joe biden. they want to blame bernie sanders for inflation. but we have got to explain basic economics as well, one, two, and that is inflation is not just an american issue. in the united kingdom, inflation is 10% to 0.5% than it is in america. in europe, it is 11%. we are 18%. the causes of inflation are the pandemic and the breakdown of supply change, race prices. the causes of inflation are the terrible, terrible war, or invasion of ukraine and all the baddest. but there is another cause of inflation which republicans in a billion years will never corporate. and the major cause of inflation today, the recent like prices of gas pump in the grocery store of sorting, is because of corporate greed. if you want to know where you paid high prices of gas pump, ask s.s. on mobile who are trying to break in breaking profits right now. if you want to know where food prices are high, ask the major food companies to jack up their prices to uncomfortable levels. take a deep breath and think about the morality of the issue. we live in a moment because of this pandemic, a lot of instability in the country, a lot of uncertainty. people are burdened. you have the war in ukraine, you have the breakdown of supply chains. and we are corporate america is saying, not how can we help working? how could we lower prices in this country to make things more affordable? but they are saying the guy from next time mobile is really honest about it. this is another opportunity to raise prices as high as we can. and what we say, this time is immoral, it is war and that is why we are not opposed a virtual profit tax on the country. i want to say this as well. the public is going around and the same, the close of inflation is the large amount of federal spending with the american breastfeeding plan. and it is the chairman of the senate budget committee, i hope, like that bill. i do not know about that. i want you all to think back two years ago. we were country without vaccines. thousands of people every day were dying. people by the millions were losing their jobs. remember that? and what the president of the united states and what congress did without what republican voting is what we said in today. and what? what working people are struggling with hunger in america is on the rise. what people are worried about being evicted from their accomplishments to the handful of the pay for it. you know what? yes. we will provide $1400 for every man more than a child in this country. and i know the power tries for them. and that won the public in voting for them. and what millions of people because of their pandemic were state jobs. remember that unemployment went off to the talks. we said yes. we are going to extend unemployment benefits. and when working ones and this were unable to provide for their pigs, we said yes. we are going to provide a free hyper-evalent amount of child pass credit for everyone to get them out. and when the hospitals, when some hospitals in america were on the verge of collapse because so many covid patients were entering and their doctors were getting sick and their nurses were getting sick, we said yes. we got a few billions that helped hospitals get their patients. and we are going to help you to get the vaccine to help you get this survive the pandemic. and i apologize to no one. i am brittany lewis with forbes breaking news. at thursday, senate health committee hearing, senator bernie sanders questioned fda commissioner robert kalyft. sanders asked if kalyft was concerned about the extremely limited number of companies that produced baby formula. currently, three companies dominate the entire infant formula market. abbott, mead, and nestley. this senator also asked how the fda plans to prevent future shortages. watch the entire exchange here. thank you. senator sanders. thank you, madam chair. dr. kalyft, concentration of ownership in our economy is a major major problem in many sectors. it is true on wall street, it is true in energy, it is food production in general. it is certainly true in the production of infant formula, which is so terribly important to millions of parents with babies. right now, we have three companies, abbott, mead, and nestley, who dominate the entire market. we have recently been discussing contamination at an abbott facility. tomorrow, it could be nestley. are you concerned? and what are you doing about broadening the number of companies who are producing infant formula? i am very concerned, and as i said, my opening remarks is not unique to this industry that we are seeing concentration that puts everything at risk. and i will remind you, as you well know, there is no requirement that companies show us their backup plans. right. but all i am asking, and i have got other questions, is what are you doing right now to aggressively make sure that more companies are producing infant formula? so we will not see this problem re-curd them all. i am sorry, senator, i am going to interrupt it. on a temporary measure, we lowered some of the, reduced some of the paperwork so that many more foreign manufacturers can import. we have got 26 applications, since we opened the portal just over a week ago. the largest producer nestley worldwide hardly had any presence in the u.s. and they are going to help out quite a bit. they are very capable. i hope that you will focus on increasing the number of companies who are producing so we do not run into this problem. yes. let me ask you this. on october 20th of last year, a whistleblower sent a 34-page report to the fda describing in detail how the equipment and avid manufacturing plant in michigan, quote, was failing in a need of repair and that the company knew that this was a problem for at least five years. according to this report, i have had falsified records to cover up deficiencies at its plant, improperly trained employees, and successfully hid health and safety risks from fda orders in 2019. and even though this report was submitted to your agency last october, fda did not interview the whistleblower until late december. now my question is during that same period of time, avid saw a $7 billion increase in its profits and its ceo, mr. ford, saw very substantial increases in his compensation packages. if a company lies to the fda about its safety situation, at the same time, it does massive stock buybacks, gives the ceo use compensation packages, are you going to find them? what are you going to do to make sure the industry understands that you simply cannot lie to a government agency? the whistleblower's complaint was received and the usual staff reviewed it and did the interview. it was not escalated to the leaders of the fda who were responsible and that was an error that is now been rectified in terms of process. in terms of the status of the whistleblower complaint, i am not in a position to comment on whether they may be legal proceedings. i am not even asking about the whistleblower complaint. if a major corporation lies to the fda about something as terribly important, the safety of infant formula, what are you going to do? get the same time they do billions in stock buybacks, huge compensation packages for its ceo. is the government, is the agency going to say sorry? it is more important to protect the babies of this country than to give huge compensation packages to your ceos. are you going to stand up to them? senator sanders, we are standing out there. as i said, i am not in a position to say whether criminal proceedings are underway or not. is that something in consideration? i am just not in a position to comment on that. well i would hope that manufacturers of baby formula, which is so terribly important to parents and obviously the babies, understand they cannot lie to the food and drug administration. and i hope you are strong about that. well, senator, as you know, i have worked on all sides of this. i have been inspected and everyone understands when you lie to the fda and you get caught, there is going to be big trouble. well, i hope they will be. thank you.