[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 7 (Tuesday, January 12, 2016)]
[House]
[Pages H290-H291]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
RECOGNIZING COACH FRANK BEAMER ON HIS RETIREMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. Griffith) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize Coach Frank
Beamer on the occasion of his retirement as the head football coach at
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University--more commonly
known and fondly known as Virginia Tech--located in Blacksburg,
Virginia, as Coach Beamer concludes his highly successful career. For
almost three decades, Coach Beamer has been a tremendous leader in
Virginia and a mentor to hundreds of student athletes.
In 29 seasons under Coach Beamer's leadership, Virginia Tech football
has enjoyed unprecedented success, notching 237 wins, three Big East
championships, four Atlantic Coast Conference
[[Page H291]]
championships, and the opportunity to play for a national championship.
His ``Beamer Ball'' style of play has led Virginia Tech to become one
of the Nation's most respected college football programs.
In 1999, Coach Beamer was named the consensus Associated Press
College Football Coach of the Year.
Coach Beamer's first postseason berth as head coach at Virginia Tech
was a trip to the 1993 Independence Bowl game, which resulted in a
victory for the Hokies. It was only fitting that Coach Beamer ended his
coaching career with a 55-52 victory over the University of Tulsa in
the 2015 Independence Bowl, capping off a school record 23 straight
postseason bowl games.
Raised a short drive from Blacksburg, in Hillsville, Virginia, Coach
Beamer graduated from Hillsville High School, where he earned 11
varsity letters as a three-sport athlete in football, basketball, and
baseball. He went on to attend Virginia Tech as an undergraduate and
started 3 years as a cornerback, playing on the Hokies' 1966 and 1968
Liberty Bowl teams.
While attending Radford University to receive his master's degree in
guidance, he began his coaching career in 1969 as an assistant at
southwest Virginia's Radford High School.
{time}  1100
From there, he went on to work as a graduate assistant at Maryland
for 1 year, followed by the Citadel for five seasons, where he was
defensive coordinator for two of those.
In 1979, Coach Beamer joined Murray State University as defensive
coordinator and was named head coach in 1981.
In 1987, he made his way back to his native southwest Virginia to
take the reins at Virginia Tech. He has brought honor to southwest
Virginia and Virginia Tech by always being the consummate Virginia
gentleman and a darn good football coach to boot.
He has devoted his time and passion to the teams he has coached as
well as the greater southwest Virginia community. In fact, in 2004, he
was presented with a Humanitarian Award by the National Conference of
Community and Justice for his contributions to fostering justice,
equity, and community in the Roanoke Valley.
As evidenced by his incredible success, Coach Beamer has much to be
proud of and can look back on an honest and accomplished career. His
passion for coaching led him to achieve what many coaches only dream
of.
He has positively shaped the futures and touched the lives of the
Virginia boys and girls that he has dealt with--particularly, the boys
on his football team--and has made us a better State. This is truly the
great measure of a great coach.
Mr. Speaker, I am honored to help commemorate the career of a
remarkable man. After 29 years of dedicated leadership to Virginia Tech
and the greater community, I would like to thank Coach Beamer for his
service. I wish him and his family all of the best in his retirement.
____________________