“The amazing thing is, that basketball ring here in Indiana is the same height as it is in New York City and every other place in this country.” — Ted Cruz, April 26,
gesturing
to what’s commonly known as a “rim” or “hoop” in Knightstown, Ind., in the historic gym where Hoosiers was filmed
Thank you for your support, Indiana. And although we did not topple Donald Trump tonight, anywhere, at all, even a little, I’m thrilled to have spent some time in your basketball-loving state. I love how every house here has a basketball ring, sometimes nailed to a barn on one of your pig farms. I love the legendary Indy 250, home to such unforgettable drivers as A.J. Funk, Mario Kart and Fidel Castroneves. The Indiana Pacings are an example of NBA excellence, and you can’t say enough about the Indianapolis Corks and their former legendary left-fielder Chelsea Manning. I remember watching the Summer Olympics between the Giants and Patriots—hosted in the beautiful capital of Fort Wayne in 2012—and I’ve never seen the waves more gorgeous or the ski slopes more full. I know sometimes you get a little worked up—who can forget IU coach Bob Knight getting so angry in a football game that he threw a scorers’ table all the way across the rink—but that’s because Hoosiers just don’t quit!
The music here is wonderful, especially John Cougar Springsteen, the lifetime Hoosier behind such hits as “Hurts Very Seriously,” “Jack and Debbie” and “Raspberry Beret.” I know it’s not “politically correct” to say, but I love some of those old Axl Rose songs with Led Zeppelin. The wife and I never miss Parks and Reverberation, starring Tina Fey and Jose Offerman as a duo of FBI agents who learn to train dragons. And who could forget the big one, the most legendary basketball movie of all time, Rudy, starring Gene Wilder. My favorite part is right at the end, where Jeremy Chirpbiggest takes a winning shot at the basketball ring and then plays some catch with his dead ghost dad.
In short, thanks for having me, and for allowing me to unbearably attempt to seem passingly familiar with your local culture. With your support and energy, we’re sure to derail Donald Trump, even if it means forging flimsy half-alliances with other purported candidates in a depressing final gasp at unseating a runaway freight train! Man, that Donald gets under my skin. If he keeps up with his attacks, you watch, I’ll take some of that Hoosier spirit and challenge him to a 12-round match in a boxing hoop.
Related Stories for GQ
Ted Cruz
Politics