hello, massachusetts democrats! oh, wow! what a night! results are still coming in across the country, but here at home in massachusetts we have got a lot to celebrate. we can see our future, and it is bright, and it is blue. now, over this past year, i am going to give you the teacher look. so, over this last year, across this commonwealth, people of conscience came together to stand up for democracy. we nominated great candidates, and we worked hard to get them elected. we knocked on doors, we made phone calls, we rallied, we marched, and because we did, we won big in massachusetts, and you are the ones who got it done. and now, the votes are in, and we are sending a battle-tested leader to beacon hill, who has shattered a couple of glass ceilings along the way. we have elected a woman who fights for working families, a warrior who is done toe-to-toe, with big oil and for-profit colleges. we have made more and healy the next governor of the commonwealth of massachusetts. i want to add, we have also sent one of the commonwealth's most effective mayors, a smart, principled leader, to fight alongside mora on beacon hill, with made kim driscoll the next lieutenant governor. oh, and we cannot quit without saying, we have put a defender of equality and opportunity, a woman who knows the power of turning pain into purpose to be the people's lawyer, we made andrea campbell our next attorney, jay. and fingers crossed, we are electing a fierce advocate for accountability, diana de zoglio for our next auditor. we have a proven champion for working families back into office, deb goldberg for treasure, and up and down the ballot tonight, massachusetts has chosen leaders with vision, whose value is aligned with the will of the people. and i want to say, that matters now more than ever. here at home and across the country, we are up against republican extremists. they are willing to overturn election results that do not suit them. they parrot the big lie, they embrace violent insurrection, and they are determined to silence our voices, steal our votes. and deny our freedom. that is the republican agenda. it is a war on our freedom, it is a war on our democracy. and that is why here in massachusetts, republicans lost. they lost big time. massachusetts said to republicans, not here, not here on the ugliness and the hate, not here on the deception and the flat out lies, not here on the attacks on the very foundation of our democracy. when the republicans try to control who you marry and which books you can read, we say not here. when republicans try to make this economy work better for billionaires and billionaire corporations and leave working families behind here in massachusetts, we say not here. and when republicans try to control access to abortion and birth control, we say not here. we say not here, but the republicans keep banging on the door, both locally and nationally. look, we are in for some tough times. and here's what i know for sure. mora will fight for you. kim will fight for you. andrea will fight for you. diana and deb will fight for you. ayanna will fight for you. katherine will fight for you. and ed and i, i promise, will be in washington fighting for you. we will not give an inch to these power hungry liars, because here's what i understand. when we stand together, when we persist together, we win together. so massachusetts, thank you for giving us mora. thank you for giving us a great team. it is a proud night in massachusetts. thank you.