we all lived through a bit of an earthquake tuesday night. a couple of days after the election, you said you gave a speech to the afl-cio and you said this. if we learned nothing else from the past two years of electioneering, we should hear the message loud and clear that the american people want washington to change. it was clear in the democratic primaries. it was clear in the republican primaries. it was clear in the campaign and it was clear on election day. how do democrats show that they heard that message? what do they do now? i think the interesting question is going to be both hats. how are the democrats going to show it and how is donald trump going to show that he actually heard that message? that is the message he ran on. but right now what donald trump is doing is putting together a transition team that is full of lobbyists and the kind of people that he actually ran against. and so part of what we have to assess here is what is the mandate coming out? and i think that the clearest point that comes out of this election is that the american people do not want wall street to run their government. they do not want corporate executives to be the ones who are calling the shots in washington. and you can shake your head no to that. but i think that is exactly what this election shows. it shows, look at the polling from this, that about three quarters of all americans do believe that the game is rigged. and that is democrats, republicans, and independents. and they believe it is rigged in favor of the people in this room and that it is rigged against them and their families and their children. and they want to see change. they want to see that connection between wall street and giant corporations and our government broken. they want that not to happen anymore. they want a government that runs for the people. that is what i think this election is about. so how do the two parties show that? if that is, if that is your less water democrats do, what does the trump transition slash administration do that it is not doing now in your government? it does not start by hiring a bunch of lobbyists to run the transition. it does not start by floating names of people who have run giant hedge funds to be able to be a part of that to be able to run the treasury or people who come from industry to be able to run the regulatory agencies. you know, the american people understand about the revolving door and i think they are really sick of it. the notion that someone is in industry and makes a bunch of money and then goes into government for a few years regulating the very same industry and then spends right back into industry again. but, you know, elections have consequences. sure they do. he won. he gets to do, he gets to pick his administration. he won, but i am just making the point. you better take a look at what he won on. he did not want win on a mitch mcconnell, paul ryan, business as usual. what can we do to help the giant corporations in america? look, i know that the k street lobbyists are absolutely out there salivating. you know, they are dancing in the streets. they say this is our big chance. we are going to get to slash regulations. man, look for a tax cut for those at the top. that is what the k street lobbyists may be thinking this morning, but that is not with the people who elected donald trump are thinking this morning. if you look at the populist part of the trump message, one would think, and i think you have talked about this. there are things where, frankly bernie sanders and donald trump started together and proceeded together. wall street, as you said, college costs, childcare, infrastructure spending. is there a place there on any of those or all of those subjects where populists in the democratic party and a trump administration could come together? can you see that happening? well, the question, i mean, this just keeps going back to what is donald trump going to do. he is now, it is been a week. he is now given us at least the first tangible sign of his vision of how to run a trump presidency. and a big part of that are lobbyists and washington insiders. and the other part of it is to bring someone who is a white supremacist into the white house to be a senior strategist. and i think this is going to be an important part of the mix going forward. what donald trump is doing right now is that there was a lot, what is face it? there was a lot during the election of a toxic stew of bigotry and attacks on americans all across this country. and that donald trump started his campaign with an attack on mexican americans and then he rode the escalator down. and he did attacks on women. he did attacks on african americans. he did attacks on muslims. he did attacks on immigrants. he did attacks on people with disabilities. it was kind of everybody who did not look like the people who showed up at his rallies. and there were a lot of people who were attracted to that. but there were a lot of people who were not attracted to that. and yet voted for donald trump. there are a lot of people who did not like that part of what the campaign was about. but they said we want somebody who is going to shake it up. but one of the first things donald trump has now done is he has brought steve bannon in as a senior strategist. this is a man who has white supremacist ties. i mean that is what he does. this is a man who is who told his ex-wife that he did not want his children going to school with jews. this is a man who ran a news organization that ran headlines like would you rather your children have feminism or cancer? this is a man who says by his very presence that this is a white house that will embrace bigotry. and here i am with the business leaders of america. i just want to underline something that every one of you know. bigotry is bad for business. bigotry is not what your employees expect. bigotry is not what your customers expect. and if that is the direction that this administration goes, that creates a real problem for everybody. and what i believe about this is there is no longer the possibility on this question of someone like bannon in the administration of where donald trump goes next. i do not think it is possible to stand on the sidelines and be quiet about this. there are a lot of people in this room who help lead the charge to make workplaces open and accepting places to say we are open to all customers. we want to make sure that we serve all americans that we treat everybody with dignity and respect. if this white house goes in a different direction, that damages every one of us. and i think it calls on the business community for leadership. i think it calls on the democrats for leadership. but i think that is the problem we have got. and one of the ones we are going to have to deal with going forward here. but is it? but is it? but as you suggest, there are millions of people who voted for donald trump not for those reasons. that is exactly right. and by the way, most of those people used to be democrats. they are union workers, white collar workers, industrial upper midwest voters. they did not vote for that donald trump. i do not think. but they voted for donald trump. anyway, how did your party lose them? all the more point, though, i just want to make on that why it is that this is a moment of such urgency. that people did not vote for donald trump so that he could bring a white supremacist into the white house and take his advice. and i just think this is a moment where everybody has to speak up. and i think that is true for democrats. i think it is true for republicans. and i think it is true for the business community. but to go back to those voters, why are they not democrats now? why were they trump voters? so i think that donald trump made the promise to shake things up. donald trump, look, he made the argument over and over and over that the democrats were too close to wall street and too close to big business. and i think that is the core of his economic argument that too many insiders were calling the shots that too many multinational corporations were running the trade deals. that too many people who had already made it big were using the tools of government to work for themselves and not to work for anyone else. donald trump, and i want to be clear, i think hillary clinton ran on very much the same argument. i just think donald trump made it aggressively, and let us do remember at the end of the day, hillary clinton actually got more americans to vote for her than donald trump did. but the point is, you cannot miss this about the election. when you tuned in, it was driving, whether they drove it effectively or whether they drove it less effectively, it was driving the message that washington needs to work for the little guy, that washington needs to work for the families who have been left behind, that washington does not need to work for those at the top anymore. and this is so important going forward because it raises this question about what does the economic agenda look like? let us talk about that. what should the economic agenda look like in european? what will it look like? given the fact that there is, leaving steve bannon out of this conversation, at least for a minute here, there is some overlap between what donald trump is going to try to do, infrastructure spending, and what people in the senate on the democratic side, your side, would presumably like to do. where is the overlap? how does it come together? where is there no hope for connection? actually, and i want to see this the other way to draw the contrast. i think there is no mandate out there for mitch mcconnell and for paul ryan. i think there is no mandate right now to cut regulations and say, i know, let us just turn a bunch of wall street banks loose and see what they will do. i mean, what could possibly go wrong? right? let us not remember what happened in 2008 and the run out to 2008. i think the appetite for that among the american people is zero. and i think that is exactly what was demonstrated in this election. if mitch mcconnell were here, he would say, we won control of the senate. i would say to mitch mcconnell, we got hillary clinton got more votes than donald trump did. we took seats in the senate and we took seats in the house. he has fewer senators on the republican side than he had before this election. and paul ryan has fewer house members on the republican side than he did before this election. what i am saying is whether people were voting for hillary clinton or for most of them, whether they were voting for donald trump, they were not voting for mitch mcconnell and paul ryan's deregulatory mix. let guys do whatever they want to do, let giant corporations do whatever they want to do. so let us talk about that regulatory agenda. two big issues that you have been identified with very strongly. one is the dodd-frank legislation. and we actually have an audience question i was going to ask about this. there is a question now of what the future of dodd-frank is. and i think we have an audience question that can be put up. maybe not? yes, no. we will skip that then. the question is, will there be a run on dodd-frank? here's the question. this is what i want people in the audience. then i want you to answer this. what happens to dodd-frank now? is there some modification of it? does it get eliminated or does it live on unchanged? that is curious what the audience thinks. some more curious at the moment what you think. or did you actually have to put it in the middle of the vote before i talk? i think this will take long. i do not know, i think there is some consultation going on. it is rigged. the system is clearly rigged. i do not think we can agree on that. you guys think you are punching those buttons and it is going to be long. there we go. some modification. one in ten complete elimination and nobody thinks it lives on a shelf. your answer. what i hope happens and what you think will happen. what i hope happens is that we have some modification. i think that dodd-frank was not tough enough. donald trump, let us just be clear here. donald trump said... i think they had a different kind of modification in mind. but this is the risk you run when you open something up and modify it. where does it go? donald trump said that he supported glass steagall. we have a really good bipartisan glass steagall bill. john mccain and i are co-sponsors on this. angus king, an independent maria cantwell from washington state. it is a well thought out glass steagall that says we are going to separate banking. it makes it safer. we are going to make boring banking more boring. and if you want to take risks, you cannot get access to the guaranteed accounts that we have over in the traditional banking system. i am going to separate those two. that is good for small banks. it is good for small businesses. it is good for the economy overall. it makes it safer. it also has a net by the way i should add. it has a lot about the better regulation of the non-bank financial institutions. so it is really about fighting the next war where many of the risks lie with non-bank financial institutions. so all i can say is the guy who is just elected president of the united states gave that one a two thumbs up. in fact, as i recall, you might all want to remember, it is in the republican platform that this is an official party position to adopt. so if you want to ask me about modification, that is the place i would start with modification. what is your expectation? the expectation is that there is going to be a lot of back and forth about this. a lot of republicans have dug in on the notion that we need to roll it all back. or this rate holds parts of it that you raise dollar limits enough that there is no effective regulation. you keep it on the books, but it is not there. i think that is going to be a battle that is going to be fought hard. and i think it is going to be one where it will be interesting to see where donald trump goes. but it will also be one. you think you cannot get american people engaged in these economic issues? i think you can. i think the american people get this. i think the fact that i have people stop me in the grocery store to say, do not glass-stegle. sounds a little crazy, but it is true. people get some of these basic economic points and they understand them as markers for the underlying question about who are you running the system for. is this system here just to help a handful of giant banks who rolled over american families in the early 2000s who traded in these terrible mortgage products that ultimately blew up our economy, that cost millions of people their homes, that cost millions of people their jobs, that cost millions of people their savings. the american people have not forgotten this. i think one of the big questions still for the american people is how could it be that nobody ever went to jail over there, that we had a savings alone crisis, and hundreds of people ended up going to jail over the savings alone crisis. the idea was you just could not have been running the bank where the book showed this on one day and they showed this on the next day without something being wrong and what you did. and that is ultimately lots and lots of folks got invested. the reason i want to say this, i am sorry, and then i will quit. when we open up dodd-frank, we are not going to open up dodd-frank saying, oh, it is 2017, a new day, nothing has ever happened before. there is flowers and birds are singing. we are going to open it up with the memory of what happened in 2008, and how people took how a handful of people took down this economy, and then the part we are going to remember is what happened in the next eight years, as they got bailed out by the american taxpayers, got richer than ever, and left american families behind. and that will be the context for reopening dodd-frank. but one of the things that did happen in the aftermath of that was the creation of the consumer financial protection bureau. you had as much to do that with that as anybody. does it survive now, or is it on what, is it going to die in the next six months? so again, who do you think you are fighting for out there? let us be clear about the consumer financial protection bureau. it has forced the largest financial institutions in this country to return $11 billion directly to people they cheated. it has now handled more than a million complaints. it is out there doing its job, it is leveling the playing field. it is transparent. you can look up, which banks get lots of complaints against them, and which banks do not. where the problems are, if they are on student loans, or if problems are on credit cards, or if they are on payday loans. the consumer financial protection bureau is doing the people's business, and it has its own fan club out there. it is got the people it is working for. you try to take the legs out from underneath the consumer financial protection bureau. i think that is not only a problem for donald trump and for the republicans. i think this is something that the american people will say enough. we did not elect a government once again to try to increase the profits by one tenth of one percent for giant companies, so that they can turn around and step on us. the cfpb shows that government can work for the people because it is working for the people. let us jump into some questions, and i am going to start with one that was sent in, that just gets back to the question of what next for the republican party. this one asks, we need to come together as a leader, how are you going to make this happen? this is in the context of what now for the democratic party, excuse me. i think what coming together means is that we use this government to work for the people, and we do the things that work for the people. let me put it this way. you look at this election, you say we are a very divided people, and there are issues we are deeply divided on. i understand that. things where half of america feels one way and half of america feels another. those are not economic issues. on these core economic issues, how we build a strong middle class going forward, we have a lot of consensus in this country. let me see how many i can remind everyone of refinancing student loans and bringing down the cost of college. this is something that is deeply supported across america, democrats, republicans, independents, raise the minimum wage, equal pay for equal work, paid family and medical leave. expand social security and reenan wall street. those are core economic principles that somewhere between two thirds up to three quarters of americans say, yeah, that is what i would be behind. that is what is helpful to my family. that is how we build a strong and robust economy going forward. i will fight for that every single day, and i will be blunt here. i do not care who gets credit for it. what i care is that those are the kinds of changes we make in this country. we need debt-free college in this country. we need it for the families who are struggling to educate their kids, but we need it for our economy. has anyone looked at the numbers on this right now? what student loan debt is doing? we have $1.3 trillion in outstanding student loan debt right now, and studies coming out of the fed, the department of treasury, the consumer financial protection bureau. you know what they show? they show that young people, you do this stuff, age, or just, they are not buying homes at the rate we expected them to. they are not moving out of mom and dad's house. they are not starting small businesses. we are watching depressed entrepreneurship among this age cohort, and what is the number one reason behind that? the number one reason are these student loans. we are saddling our kids with debt, and that means they cannot get a start in this economy. they are telling them that they are 100 yards behind the starting line, but the time they get out of college. and it is becoming one more element of how you divide the rich from everyone else. do you realize that today, 70% of young people who graduate from a public university have to borrow money to make it through? so that what is happening is when i was a kid, my dad was a janitor. my mom worked a minimum wage job at sears. and yet, how did i go to college? i went to college because i went to a commuter college that cost $50 a semester. that was my chance. that was my debt-free college. and that is how i got to be a public school teacher. and from there, how i ended up going to a public law school and from there becoming a law professor, and from there becoming a united states senator, it was an america of opportunity. and if we do not invest an opportunity, it is not only bad for families and bad for democracy, it is bad for all of us. that is the kind of change we need to make. we have got time for one more question from the audience. yes, right in the back here, richard edelman. senator, where are you on the sharing economy? and what about benefits for workers who are uber or other? so, look, we have had what is in effect a contract with our workers. and i use contract now in the big meaning of the word, a big social contract with our workers for generations. part of it was about what you got paid by your employer and what your employer provided. and part of it was the rest of it. we had social security as the backup. so when you retired, you would not have to be in poverty. right? we had unemployment insurance for when you got laid out. but it was all built around a model that just does not exist anymore. it was built around the model of the single employer that you had for a very long period of time. now we are moving to people putting together multiple, i am not sure the word employers write anymore. multiple income streams in different ways. and what that means is we have to rewrite that contract. we have to rewrite it and we have to rewrite, i believe, the public part, as well as the private part. we cannot keep dumping all of the obligations, all the things we want to see us do, build a social safety net on the private side. we are going to have to have a lot more creativity here. and i will give you just one specific example so it does not sound totally generic. and that is independent contractors. the independent contractor laws were written for a very different america. the notion that uber drivers, for example, cannot come together and bargain collectively to figure out what their terms, working terms and conditions are going to be is crazy. and what that does is it forces them into an economic circumstance that just does not exist anymore. it hammers them in to a place that leaves them weakened and unable to get together and negotiate something that is going to work for all of them. look, here's my last pitch because i know we have got to go. i am with a bunch of people who run very successful businesses and i applaud that. but for i assume almost everybody in this room, it is really on the premise that everybody needs at least a little chance to succeed. sure, some are going to do better, some are going to work harder, some are going to catch a break. but that we build opportunity for everyone and that we keep running our systems in ways that those who work hard, who play with the rules are really going to have a chance to build a future. and right now america is not heading in that direction. and this government has not been a government that has helped move it as far in that direction as it should. and i think this is the true challenge in the 21st century. i think it is the challenge for all of you. i think it is the challenge for the democratic party. i think it is the challenge for all of america. senator warren, if we were any doubt that this is going to be an interesting time in washington, you have dispelled it for us. so i appreciate it very much. thank you very much for coming. thank you. thanks very much. thank you.