thank you. thank you. and thank you to the women who are leading in massachusetts. yes. yes. oh. when i first ran for the senate six years ago, i asked you to take a chance on someone who had never even run for office before. you took that chance. you sent me into the fight. and tonight you told me to stay in the fight. i am deeply grateful. and i promise i will never stop working my heart out for you. never. yeah. it has been a tough two years. but together, together, we have marched, together, we have run, together, we have persisted and insisted that our voices be heard, that our votes be counted, and that our values be respected. and in two months, and at least for the next two years, the house of representatives, the people's house, is going to do a lot more work for the people. so tonight, i make you this promise. we are just getting started. you know, we know what we believe in, and we know whose side we are on. we came to this movement to pick a fight, a fight on behalf of millions of americans who are getting ripped off in a rigged economy and ignored by a corrupt government in washington. we came to this fight for families trying to stretch a paycheck, and for people living one moment away from a medical bill that would send them spiraling over a financial cliff. we came to fight for seniors trying to make it on social security, and for dreamers trying to make it in the only country they have ever known. we came to fight for workers who want to build a union, and for unions who want to rebuild america's middle class. we came to fight for firefighters facing cancer, for nurses busting their tails to save lives, and for public schoolteachers reaching into their own pockets to buy crayons for their kids. we came to fight for loved ones caught in the grip of the opioid crisis, for families shattered by gun violence, and for communities of color devastated by a broken criminal justice system. we came to fight for decency, we came to fight for justice, we came to fight for change, and now tonight we take that fight to washington to make our government work not just for the rich and the powerful, but make it work for everyone else. so tonight is a night to celebrate how far our movement has come, but it is also a night to remember just how it began. and let us make sure that nobody re-writes history. this resistance began with women, and it is being led by women tonight. two years ago, on a very dark election night, millions of women watched in horror as donald trump was elected president. they did not like it, but they did not whimper, they did not whine, they fought back. women knitted hats, and they painted signs, and they took to the streets by the millions, raising their voices until they could no longer be ignored. they went to rallies, they went to town halls, they went to training sessions, they became organizers, fundraisers, campaign managers, by the dozens, by the hundreds. women who had never run for anything before stepped up to put their names on the ballot. a record-breaking number of women. a record-breaking number of women, especially women of color, including our on-ion oppressors jumped into the fight. and it was something. they ignored the party bosses who said they should wait their turn. they ignored the consultants who said they should cover up their tattoos and smile more. and they ignored the powerful men of the republican party who never took them seriously anyway. they refused to let anyone shut them up or stand in their way, and that is how real change begins. it is there. we have seen white women learn from black women how to organize and mobilize. older women partnering with younger women to take to the streets. married singles, straight lesbian and trans women, rich and poor women, building alliances with each other, and yeah, building alliances with the men who also want to make real change in this country. people who never thought of themselves as activists embraced their power, took their seats at the table, and inspired others. glass shattered, barriers broke, more people who had always been told to wait and wait and wait. and decided the time for waiting was over and the time to act had come. so, earlier this year, i called one of those first time candidates. a woman named leobah gretchen shirley. now, leobah was running a tough race for congress, and the pundits were given her no chance of winning, none at all. but that is not what leobah was worried about on the day i called. nope. she was worried about her two-year-old son, nicholas, who had tripped on a toy and broken his leg. now, she could have given up, but she did not. instead, she practiced her stump speech while she gave nikki and his sister their baths, and she balanced fundraising calls with calls to the insurance company, which by the way refused to cover nikki's hospital stay. but i will tell you, it reminded me of how i felt when i was a young teacher back at the university of houston. i was having a tough time managing two little kids and a brand new job. and one night, my 77-year-old aunt b called long distance from oklahoma just to see how i was doing. fine, i said. and then i would know where. i just burst into tears. it was too much. i felt like a failure. and without even planning to say it, the words just fell out of my mouth. i am going to quit my job. now, aunt b waited for me to stop crying, the blow my nose, to get a drink of water, all long distance. and she said, i cannot get there tomorrow, but i can come on thursday. she showed up with seven suitcases and a pecanese named buddy and stayed for 16 years. thank you, aunt b. so i am talking to leoba. and leoba said she had heard that story. and then she started to cry. it is hard. it is hard for millions of working moms who do not have an aunt b. moms fighting to make ends meet, fighting to create a better future, fighting a system that is rigged to undermine working women, to lock women of color out of opportunity, and to keep power in the hands of privileged men. but for leoba and the other women who ran this year, they would not let anything stop them. that is how it is. and here's the deal. no matter what happens in leoba's race tonight, she is one of this year's big winners, because she became the first woman ever to get federal officials to approve using campaign funds to pay for child care. now that is real change. thank you, aunt b. leoba. together, women and men, young and old, black and white, gay and straight, in cities big and small, have built something extraordinary. and whether you ran for office or ran a phone bank, whether you won or you lost or you are still waiting for the votes to be counted, whether this was your first time getting off the sidelines or you have been in this fight your whole life, everyone who helped make tonight possible should know two things. first, you have more power than you ever imagined. and second, you have got to stay in the fight. the road ahead of us will not be easy. trust me. the powerful in washington do not give up just because they get knocked down. our government is still captured by the wealthy and the well connected, and the economy is still rigged against working people, women and communities of color. our supreme court is still packed with right wing activists who believe that the wealthy and the well connected should get to call the shots. and donald trump still practices the dark art of ruling by fear. fear whipped up to turn hardworking americans against hardworking americans. and while he is got everyone busy yelling and fighting, mitch mcconnell gets to raid the treasury and give a trillion and a half dollars to his rich friends. yeah. oh, and by the way, mitch is still plotting to destroy healthcare for millions of families and slash social security and medicare. yeah. yeah. it is gonna be hard. nevertheless, we will persist. and we will deliver the change this country deserves. oh, well. so we have got a lot of races still undecided tonight. but before i let you get back to your television sets and check it online, which i noticed somebody over there is doing. i actually, i just want to say some thanks. first, running for office is an investment in democracy. it is not easy and anyone who steps up deserves credit. so i want to say thank you to my opponent for stepping up. thank you, jeff deal. thank you. and for everyone else who made an investment in democracy, thank you. thank you for putting up a lawn sign or coming to a rally or donating ten bucks or just making the time to vote. you make democracy work. and thank you to my sweetie bruce, who understands the most important things in life. and in the middle of a hard campaign came home with a new puppy. thank you. and thank you to the people of this commonwealth. every single one of you, whether you voted for me or not, i am grateful for the opportunity to fight for you. thank you. so thank you all. but remember, your work is not done. so much depends on what we do next. donald trump and his corrupt friends have spent the last two years building walls of anger and division and resentment. and as the first cracks begin to appear in that wall, let us declare that our fight is not over until we have transformed our government. transformed our government into one that works not just for the rich and the powerful but works for everyone. and tomorrow, we get right back in the fight. the fight for a day when corporations do not write all the rules. the fight for a day when corrupt politicians do not escape justice. the fight for a new day in america with a new kind of politics, a politics of inclusion, not resentment. yes, a politics of courage, not fear. we have come so far together. we have fought together, cried together, resisted together, and sure as hell persisted together. but tonight, we send a message to the world. we are just getting started.