thank you, thank you so chris, thanks very much for the introduction. i am glad you picked up the highlights. i think you were pretty plain spoken too, as we got to be there. here i just want to start by saying it is so good to be with you. this is my kind of crowd. yeah! you bet. hardworking folks from all across the country who want to rain in walls street and who want to level the playing field for working families. i am proud, proud to have a chance to stand shoulder to shoulder with you in this fight. you bet. that is what we are here for. so today i am here to talk about wall street. and i got some good news and some bad news about this. let us start with the bad news. we all know what happened. the banks caused the worst financial crisis in three generations. they cost millions of people their jobs, their homes, their savings. and those wall street bankers, the ones that broke the economy, they are not ashamed. they have not seen the error of their ways and retreated. nope. just the opposite. they have doubled down on the armies of lobbyists and lawyers. they are trolling the halls of congress trying to delay and weaken all of the rules that need to be put in place and trying to open up new loopholes for them to exploit. that is the bad news. and it is real and it is tough out there. now let us do some good news. the good news is that with dodd frank and the consumer agency, we have proven that a dedicated group of activists combined with the voices of millions of people across this country can stand up to wall street and make real change in this country. that is what we have proven. we have done it before and we will do it again. that is what this is about. so the question is where do we go from here? how do we build on dodd frank? and for me, it just comes down to two simple principles. first, financial institutions should not be allowed to cheat people. i know pretty controversial in some places but just bear with me on this one. and the second is financial institutions should not be allowed to force taxpayers to take on risks just so that banks can increase their profits. so those are the two basic principles. and i want to be clear that it is departure from those two principles. no cheating and no pushing risk on taxpayers that caused the 2008 financial crisis. it is that simple. lenders got away with tricking and trapping people with shady mortgages. big banks bought up those mortgages and they sliced and diced and packaged them into mortgage-backed securities. and then they misled investors about what those packages were all about. and when the whole thing went belly up, the banks came right here to washington with their hands out knowing that congress would bail them out rather than let the economy go over a cliff. and it is core dodd frank was about trying to get back to those two basic principles. no cheating, no pushing the risk onto the taxpayers. and i want to say, it is actually made a lot of progress. so let us talk about that first principle, no more cheating people. with the creation of the consumer financial protection bureau. yay! yay! something that people in this room fought for and that is how we got it. but with the creation of that agency, dodd frank took a powerful step toward honest markets and weeding out the businesses that rely on cheating people. it is not perfect yet, but we now have one agency focused on doing exactly that. weeding out the tricks and traps in mortgages, credit cards, student loans, other financial products. and here's the best part. that little agency been up and running just for a short time. it has already forced the biggest financial institutions in this country to return more than $11 billion directly to people they cheated. that is government that works for the people. people, yes. you bet. but we still got a lot of work to do. and our work starts with protecting what we have, the consumer financial protection bureau. the big banks and their friends here in washington are doing everything they can to hamstring this agency. they have spent money on campaigns. it is amazing. on ad campaigns attacking me, attacking rich cordray, who is the director, and attacking the work that the agency does. and boy, what that tells me is it is time for us to fight back, to protect that agency, to keep it working for the people. that is work we got to do, but i want to throw out a couple of things in addition. as long as you are keeping your cheat sheet there of things, when we go around and talk to people who want to be sure to talk about, it is the consumer agency, but i got another one. we need to get the department of justice and the sec to take off the kid gloves and start holding some big banks and senior executives accountable when they break the law. yeah. these agencies do not take anyone to trial ever, which means nobody gets threatened with jail time. look, we can find these guys until the cows come home. but for them, it is just really going to be a cost of doing business. if we really want to change the culture on wall street, if we really want to deter rampant misconduct and breaking the law, we need to haul some people out in handcuffs. that is what will keep bankers up at night. you bet. you bet. yes. i did not do this. good. one more on our list. remember this. more than a quarter of families in america have no checking or savings account. these families rely on payday lenders and check cashing outfits, which can trick and trap people into paying rates that they cannot afford. now, the cfpb has just announced a rule to try to rain in payday lending. but we could do something else really innovative here. i am all for what cfpb is doing. but what we could do is we could let the united states post office start offering basic banking services. yes. it is just so straightforward. the basic stuff, the bill paying, the check cashing, the small loans, so that individual families are not driven to the payday lenders that rip them off. this is one of those proposals that is good for families, good for the post office, and good for postal workers. let us do this one. let us do this one. we can do this. so, three on no cheating. let us talk about the second goal. no two big to fail banks pushing the risk off on to taxpayers. you know, that is got to be right. dodd frank actually puts some discipline into the system. but let us get real. dodd frank did not end two big to fail. if you think it did, please stand on your head right now. i do not see anybody standing on their head because you will if you what we have to understand is the basic facts here. many of the big banks are bigger than they were when the economy crashed back in 2008. at the end of 2014, they got the law changed so they could bring risky derivatives onto their balance sheet. and how much is the estimate now in how many risky derivatives they brought onto their balance sheet? 10 trillion dollars in additional risk. and just two months ago, the fed and the fdic said that eight of the nine largest banks in this country were so big and so dangerous that if any one of them started to fail, they would bring down the whole economy unless they got a bailout. two big to fail still stalks this economy. so the question is what should we do to end it once and for all? here's an idea. let us break them up. let us break up the big banks. gee, that was not so hard. think about the different ways we can do this. we should impose a cap on bank size just like senator sherrod brown and ted kaufman proposed during the dodd-frank debate. and we should separate boring basic banking from the risky investment banking by adopting a 21st century glass stigle. we are ready to go on this. all we need are the fighters. do we have any fighters in this room? that is what we need. that is what we need. good. so look, these are changes that can make a real difference. they can protect hard working families from cheats and liars. they can help rain in, recklessness and greed on wall street. they can end too big to fail. but most of all, these changes will make our financial markets stronger and healthier and give working families a fighting chance to build a real future for themselves and for their children. that is what this is about. let us face it, this will not be an easy fight. wall street has money. lots of it. they have money. they have lobbyists and they have plenty of access to congressmen and senators. but we did not take on this fight because it is easy. the people in this room took on this fight because it is right. we took on this fight because families who cannot be with us here in washington, because families who do not have a voice in the halls of congress are counting on us. for me, this is about america's economy, but more than that, this is about america's values. this is about the kind of country we are going to build. and whether or not we are a country committed to a future, not just for some of our children, but for all of our children. i am proud to be here with you. you bet. thank you. thank you.