i love best about kamala harris. pamela harris cannot be bought. and she cannot be bossed around. now i first met kamala in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crash, the banks had flat out broken laws, cheated people, and stolen homes. millions of americans had lost their jobs, they are savings, their homes. now i was setting up the consumer financial protection bureau go see it. pamela was protecting families as california's attorney general. you bet and donald was scamming students at trump university. trying to make money off people losing their homes. kamala harris stepped up. she enforced the law. she fought the giant banks, and she delivered billions of dollars of help for families. and that is the difference between a criminal and a prosecutor. you know what else i love about kala? she gets it. we need to make life more affordable for working people. yeah. donald trump, the felon. has no plans to lower costs for families. he does not know how and basically, he does not really care. when did he ever fill up a gas tank or worry about a grocery bill. the only bills he worries about. from his criminal defense lawyers. but kamala she cares deep down, and she will take on the giant corporations that are squeezing american families. in fact, it is something she is done before during the california wildfires, she went after the price gougers. during the pandemic, we worked together in the senate to stop price gouging and as president she will lower costs for your family. she will take on the wall street firms that buy up millions of houses and apartments and then jack up the rent. she will take on drug companies that charge an arm and a leg for prescriptions. she will take on corporate monopolies that rip off consumers and billionaires who do not pay taxes. and she will take on right-wing extremists who think they should decide who has access to abortion or ivf tamala will protect abortion rights nationwide. yeah. and there it is. groceries, gas, housing, health care, taxes, abortion. trust donald trump and jd fans to look out for your family. shoot, i would not let those guys. i would not trust them to move my couch. we need the kamala harris. this election is about your family and your future. i have seen kamala harris fight. i have seen her win. and when it comes to our families and our futures, kamala harris is someone we can trust. so here it is. with joy in our hearts. let us elect kamala harris, the next president of the united states.