i have got a big round of applause for rio grande del norte national law and united. hard to believe it is been almost four years, but it is a fantastic story. i have to tell you that what you accomplished here in northern new mexico is the envy of people all over the country. i get asked all the time, how did that community come together and accomplish rio grande del norte, the way that they did and was such unanimity? and i am very, very proud of what you have accomplished here. i am proud of what we were able to do with the columbine honda wilderness and protecting our watersheds and our wild trout. and really when i think back, it takes a long time for these things to come together. i was so happy that gary mentioned, that gary mentioned, ron gardner, because i was thinking back to probably 15 years ago, sitting down with him at maybe guadalajara grill or someplace here in town and talking about how could not we get that rio grande del norte that nca or national monument thing going again. and so many people in this community just never gave up. it really was a many decades long effort. and i am so proud of the role that the pueblo played in restoring the big horn she perred to that national monument. i am proud of it. when i think about the days in my own life that matter the most, that like sit in my heart and that generate the memories that are really who i am, so many of them happen within a stone srove right here in your backyard and your public lands. the very first backpack i ever did with my wife, julie and i, we went up into the pico's wilderness from the santa barbara watershed and got to see that incredible herd of big horn sheep that is up there. my son caught their first wild trout in all these little tributaries of the rio grande on the carson national forest. my wife and i got engaged after a ski weekend at towsky valley. the times i spent with my family and my friends around campfires or chasing elk in these mountains or just watching those incredibly majestic antelope on the monument or fishing for wild cutbos down on the red and the rio grande. what you have here, it does not exist in most places around the world today and certainly the access that you have to it is unprecedented. in other countries and i get a chance to travel the world today because of my role on the intelligence committee and on the armed services committee but we have a quality of life here that is the envy of the world and in all those other places if you can access the kinds of things that you have here, you have to have a mighty thick checkbook to do it. and our public lands are the great equalizer for all of our citizens. it does not matter how thick your wallet is or how thick your checkbook is, you can get out there on your public land. you can hike and you can bike and you can camp and you can hunt and you can teach your grandson or your granddaughter how to catch a fish. that is really, really important and it is been lost to too many people in this country and around the world. i have friends in texas who have to pay thousands of dollars to go behind a fence to hunt a white tail deer. it is not even hunting by what we think of here in tows county. it is a whole different thing. they have lost so much of that but we have it here and i think we are going to have to fight really hard to hang on to it. there is a congressman in utah, some of you have heard of rob bishop. he wants to abolish this national monument. he wants to abolish oregon mountains desert peaks. he certainly wants to abolish bears years which is so important to many of our tribal communities even from new mexico. there is another congressman from utah as a name of jason schafetz who for years, you know nobody used to know who jason is. and i got elected to congress in 2008 at the same time so i know jason well. he is had this bill for years to sell off millions of acres of public land and i think people woke up after this election and went, oh my gosh, he could do this. and the response from across the west in particular, even from the outdoors people in his own state was overwhelming. he turned around and pulled that bill and declared it dead with him days of his release. and you see this anti-public land sentiment that has bubbled up in utah and really utah has sort of led the charge to try and sell off our public lands on many fronts. but you see it having economic consequences. the outdoor retailers are leaving the state of utah. they are leaving salt lake city because the governor continues to chase that very extreme agenda. and they are going to lose tens of millions of dollars a year from that lost events alone. i have told the outdoor retailers new mexico is open for business. i started my adult career. i ran an outdoor education foundation for about five years and so i was in a health fitter guy. i got to spend time taking kids in the columbine hondo and spending time with some of our river rafter friends on the rio grande and on the chama. and so i saw firsthand, frankly, how much money all those kids and my organization spent in gateway communities and what it means for people's jobs and local fly shops and local grocery stores and gas stations and the people who service bicycles and do all the different things that are associated with this. and a few years we actually had somebody pull together the numbers. and it is over $6 billion of direct spending a year in the state of new mexico. it is literally tens of thousands of people who rely on outdoor recreation on our public lands as out fitter guides, as people associated with the ski areas, as people who hunt and fish and who sell those services and those groceries and all those other things to the people that come from around the country because of what you have in your backyard. and we are going to fight for those jobs. and we are going to make sure at the end of the day that no matter what any president or what any congress proposes, that we are going to make sure that the things that you have accomplished as a community with your public lands right here in your backyard remain in place and that public lands stay in public hands. thank you.