senator justice votes to end government shutdown washington, d.c. – today, senator jim justice released a statement following the senate republicans successful passage of a bill to re-open the government: “this whole episode has been a total wreck for west virginians and americans alike. i am happy to see common sense prevail, but it should not take over 40 days of a shutdown to make that happen. i urge the house of representatives to quickly pass this bill, and encourage my democrat colleagues to come to the table in good faith as we move forward. we need to put this behind us and get back to the real work of making life better for americans across the board,” said senator jim justice . background: since october 1 st , senator justice has voted over a dozen times to keep the government funded. recently, senator justice voted to provide backpay for furloughed federal employees as well as pay active-duty military members – blocked both times. the government funding measure also includes several projects championed by senator justice and senator capito to strengthen west virginia’s communities, healthcare facilities, and military readiness: $1,500,000 for the pocahontas county commission to support improvements that enhance emergency management and medical response capabilities. $3,580,000 for sistersville general hospital to expand bed capacity and strengthen access to healthcare in rural communities. $1,750,000 for minnie hamilton health system to modernize hospital facilities and improve the delivery of high-quality care in central west virginia. $602,000 for the nicholas county commission to upgrade community facilities and ensure safe, accessible public spaces. $1,500,000 for camp dawson to design a new fire station that will enhance fire and rescue capabilities. $1,500,000 for camp dawson to design a new training facility supporting specialized instruction for the west virginia national guard and its national training mission. $4,000,000 for mclaughlin air national guard base to expand aircraft infrastructure to support new c-130j aircraft and ensure full operational readiness. # # #