senator justice votes to pass national defense authorization act washington d.c. – yesterday, senator jim justice voted to pass the national defense authorization act. the annual ndaa provides for military readiness and supports members of our armed forces: “we always need to have the backs of our troops: plain and simple. the ndaa supports our troops and their families, strengthens our readiness, and ensures our military remains the most effective fighting force in the world. my vote to pass the ndaa isn’t just a vote – it represents my commitment to the men and women in uniform who keep our country safe,” said senator jim justice. background: the fy2026 ndaa in west virginia: authorizes the pentagon to officially establish and maintain an “irregular warfare exercise laboratory,” also known as the ridge runner military exercise led by the west virginia national guard. this exercise brings significant economic benefits to the state of west virginia while increasing the military readiness of u.s. forces. establishes in law the soldier-inspired innovation program, catalyst pathfinder, which was created in west virginia as a way to accelerate army technological innovation and save taxpayer money. this west virginia-based program is already present at numerous army installations, allowing soldiers to engineer their own innovative solutions to a wide variety of challenges. requires the navy to take action in planning for newer, more effective waterborne security barriers that protect bases and ships from threats. these barriers are manufactured in wyoming county. directs the pentagon to address shortfalls in the production of critical chemicals that are required for the production of munitions and are produced in west virginia. authorizes funding for the design of a new squadron operations facility at mclaughlin air national guard base in charleston, which will support the base’s c-130j mission. encourages the pentagon to invest in the design and planning of important new updates to deep space radio telescopes such as the next-generation vla and the green bank telescope. encourages continued investments in the domestic supply for strategic minerals and materials, including graphite, which is produced in west virginia. general ndaa highlights: pay raise for our troops : authorizes a 3.8% pay raise for service members. munitions : requires a plan to implement critical munitions requirements to ensure our forces have the stockpiles they need for long-term preparedness. pentagon reform : includes numerous provisions to improve efficiency and support audit efforts. # # #