 coverage you can count on continues. This is news channel 15's first news weekend. Next week 10 candidates are trying to become Indians represented for the third district to help you get to know some of the people behind the campaign. We're doing a series of interviews called Meet the Candidates. You've been doing it all month long and this morning Indiana State Center Jim Banks is from the Republican side. It's here to join us. Thanks for coming in this morning. That's great to be here. So we've kind of been profiling people's families a little bit kind of staying away a little bit from the political side but talk about your family and we've seen some of their their images out there. Well I'm very blessed my wife Amanda and I have three daughters six four and two. We live in Columbia City which is my hometown. That's where I grew up as well so it's great to raise my family in my hometown and and we we have three little girls that we're proud of and it's great to see it's fun to see them on the TV commercials and and fortunately they take after their mother more than they take after me. Sure how is that kind of change of perspective of doing things having the three little girls. That's what this is all about. That's this election is about them. It's about their generation and what type of America will they have for the future. So that's that's why I'm ultimately why I'm running for Congress is to fight for their American dream which I believe is under attack today more than ever. Will they grow up in the greatest country of the in the world like I was able to and achieve the American dream like I've been able to to live or will the will America be very different if we if we continue down the track that we're on today I believe that the America that they will inherit will not be as great as it is today. You spent a year in Afghanistan we were just talking about as soon as you got off the plane it's kind of where your head was next. How is that transition to make from being over there now you're back here with your family how does that plane to things. Well I I return home from Afghanistan a year ago from last week and we kicked off the campaign on May 12th two weeks later so we've been working hard and here we are just three days away from election day so but I I learned many lessons while I was deployed and I'm the only candidate running for a federal office in the entire country who knows what our troops face on the ground in theater in a combat zone it gives me a powerful perspective to go to Congress and represent our troops to represent our veterans and specifically to represent my generation the post 9-11 generation of veterans and the unique issues that they face so I take that commitment very seriously to go to Washington and serve serve our troops and serve our veterans as well as I can. Sure I'll kind of throw this one at you I'm you know I'm from Northeast Indiana I'm from this area you're from this area what makes this place so special that you would like to represent. It's the people and as I campaign around the 12 counties that make up the third congressional district it's the it's the small communities the larger communities and the the people who step up and our leaders and those communities that want to make a difference and make make Northeast Indiana better than what it even already is and that's what that's what's humbling about this opportunity and humbling to serve as a state senator for the past six years to be a part of that to be a part of the leadership of this part of the state so it's it's definitely the people. Sure and I'll kind of wrap things up with the question how would you describe yourself in one word? I would use the word determined I'm determined to make a difference I've dedicated my life to public service both in the military and in government as well as the state senator and our running for Congress and I feel a burden to make a difference in this way so I'm excited about the election about the opportunity to serve in a new way if I get the chance. Sure well I appreciate you coming in kind of big weekend ahead of you as you get ready for the Tuesday primary right? That's right thanks so much banks is on the Republican ticket is opponents are Liz Brown, Keptam, Mark Banger at Dr. Pam, Galaway and Kevin Howell. These candidates are trying to fill Marlon's dustman seat who is running for US Senate he will be joined he joined us earlier this month Todd Young his opponent also joined us you can find all those interviews at Wayne.com