washington, dc – recently, congressman neal dunn (fl-02) sent a letter to secretary of homeland security kristi noem emphasizing the crucial role that eastern shipbuilding group plays in producing offshore patrol cutters (opcs) for the u.s. coast guard and urging her to reconsider moving, disrupting, or continuing the pause on current projects by allowing eastern shipbuilding group to complete four ships as part of the coast guard’s opc stage 1 program. “eastern shipbuilding group has been delivering high-quality vessels for half a century and has invested significant resources to meet the coast guard’s rigorous requirements to deliver high-quality patrol cutters,” said congressman dunn. “the company employs thousands of skilled workers that make eastern imperative to america’s national security interests and florida’s economy. “completing ongoing and future projects with eastern is compatible with the administration’s commitment to rebuild american maritime dominance instead of relying on foreign-owned firms, while avoiding unnecessary delays and increased costs associated with getting patrol cutters into service.” “we are grateful for the continued support from our elected officials. they understand the profound impact this program has had on our community—and why maintaining it in panama city is vital to our national security and to sustaining a strong domestic shipbuilding base,” said joey d’isernia, ceo, eastern shipbuilding group, inc. background : last week, the u.s. department of homeland security terminated part of a contract with eastern shipbuilding group in panama city, which called for the company to complete four opcs for the united states coast guard. eastern shipbuilding group has been delivering high-quality vessels for half a century. moving, disrupting, or continuing to pause the current contract to provide four opcs to the coast guard would result in even higher costs to the taxpayer and will significantly delay the addition of these vessels to our nation’s coast guard fleet. crucially, eastern shipbuilding group is a domestically owned and operated shipyard. allowing the remainder of this contract to go to yet another foreign-owned entity would conflict with the administration’s stated goal of prioritizing domestic production and supporting american jobs. congressman dunn is joined by senators rick scott and ashley moody as well as representatives jimmy patronis (fl-01) and vern buchanan (fl-16). read the full letter to secretary noem here .