washington, dc – today, congressman neal dunn (florida-02) introduced the ensuring lasting smiles act (elsa), a bill that would require all group and individual health insurance plans to cover medically necessary services for anomalous birth defects that impact the appearance or function of the eyes, ears, teeth, mouth, or jaw. this legislation would cover services and procedures that improve, repair, or restore facial function due to birth defects while excluding procedures that are purely cosmetic. congressman dunn is joined by congresswoman kim schrier (washington-08) in introducing the house legislation, while senators tammy baldwin (wisconsin) and joni ernst (iowa) are leading the senate effort. “many families with children who are born with congenital anomalies face significant financial barriers to accessing the treatment their child needs. this treatment is not just cosmetic. these conditions can have long-term health consequences that can severely impact everyday life,” said congressman dunn. “this bipartisan and bicameral legislation will help alleviate the financial hardship that many families endure to get their children the vital care they need. i’m proud to lead this important initiative and would like to thank my colleagues for helping us put a smile on every child’s face.” "for far too long, countless patients, including children, have been unable to access treatment for congenital anomalies such as ectodermal dysplasias and cleft lip and palate because their health insurance refused to cover care, leaving them either without treatment or burdened with thousands of dollars in medical expenses,” said congresswoman schrier, m.d. “this bill would tackle this issue head on by requiring private health insurance plans to cover medically necessary services for treating congenital anomalies and birth defects, thus allowing patients with these conditions to secure and afford the treatment they need.” “to support young iowans like alli steele, who was born with ectodermal dysplasia, this bipartisan legislation will help iowa families by ensuring that health plans cover medically necessary services related to patients’ congenital anomalies of the eyes, ears, teeth, mouth, or jaw,” said senator ernst. “for millions of americans, medically necessary care for birth defects can cost thousands of dollars out of pocket, or for others, it is entirely out of reach because of the cost – despite having health insurance,” said senator baldwin. “i’m proud to work with democrats and republicans to put this care in reach so more americans can lead healthy lives, and more families can focus on caring for their loved ones, not figuring out how they will afford medically necessary care.” read the full text of the ensuring lasting smiles act here .