washington, dc – today, congressman neal dunn (florida-02) celebrated passage of the fy2026 national defense authorization act (ndaa), including multiple victories for military facilities in florida’s second congressional district worth hundreds of millions of dollars. the ndaa also contained three amendments submitted by congressman dunn to strengthen america’s commitment to the health of our servicemembers, increase deterrence against communist china, and unleash the full potential of american spaceports. “the recently passed ndaa strengthens our military at a dangerous moment in world history,” said congressman dunn. “america’s adversaries are mobilizing to challenge free nations and democratic principles across the globe. i’m pleased that my colleagues and i in the house have signaled that the united states will not back down in the face of growing hostility. this legislation represents a significant investment in our military that will benefit northwest florida, enhance defense procurement, and improve the lives of our service members.” background : the fy2026 ndaa includes two major victories for military facilities in northwest florida. this includes $43 million for a deployment center, flight line dining, and army & air force exchange service at tyndall air force base, and $381 million for naval surface warfare centers like the one housed at naval support activity panama city. this legislation matches president trump’s request for $892.6 billion in funding for the united states military, including a 3.8% pay raise for all service members, $19 billion in military construction and family housing, and an increase in family separation allowance for deployed service members. three of congressman dunn’s amendments were included in the final version of the bill. defense medical supply chains: requiring the defense health agency to conduct a supply chain risk assessment and develop and maintain a list of critical medical products that rely on covered items originating from china. strategic spaceports: requiring the secretary of the air force to assess the feasibility and advisability of incorporating additional federal, commercial, or state-operated spaceports into the department of defense’s national security launch infrastructure. joint eu/nato and us military posture in the indo-pacific: requiring an annual report on the presence and activities of european union and nato militaries in the indo-pacific region to assess their contributions to deterrence against the people’s republic of china in the region.