washington, dc – today, congressman neal dunn (florida-02) introduced the secure u.s. leadership in space act, legislation that would encourage greater investments in spaceports by allowing space facilities to qualify for municipal revenue bonds. the bill would add spaceports to the internal revenue code to ensure that local government investments in spaceports qualify as approved activities for municipal revenue bonds. “the united states must invest heavily in its space infrastructure to maintain our economic dominance and national security interests in space,” said congressman dunn. “florida communities are eager to expand investments in space infrastructure, and congress must be willing to facilitate these efforts. this bipartisan legislation will help secure our commercial and defense interests while paving the way for american dominance in space.” “we’re in the middle of a new space race and we need to give american spaceports the tools they need to maintain their competitive edge,” said congressman carbajal, senior member of the house armed services committee. “our bipartisan bill is an important step forward to improving public-private investments into our growing space industry and ensuring our country doesn’t fall behind our foreign competitors.” “i have seen firsthand how public and private entities can come together to make great strides in innovation on florida’s space coast,” said senator ashley moody. “it is vital to incentivize these partnerships and ensure the u.s. remains at the forefront of the space industry to not only build upon florida’s economic successes but protect national security interests as well. i am thankful for my colleagues that have joined me in introducing this important legislation and look forward to bolstering florida’s position as the leader of space exploration.” “as our adversaries rapidly invest in space innovation and infrastructure, we must act decisively to maintain our leadership in space innovation,” said senator luján . “strengthening investments in spaceports – like spaceport america in new mexico and others nationwide – is critical to this effort. that is why i’m proud to introduce this bill that creates pathways for public and private partnerships to ensure our country remains at the forefront of space innovation.” “thank you to sen. ashley moody, sen. ben ray luján, rep. neal dunn, and rep. carbajal for reintroducing this legislation that is a game-changer for america’s space infrastructure,” said rob long, president and ceo, space florida. “by giving spaceports access to tax-exempt financing—just like our airports and seaports—we’re unlocking private capital to accelerate infrastructure upgrades for our economy and national security. this isn’t just about competition in the space economy—it’s ensuring america, and florida, leads it.” “as u.s. launch activity accelerates, it is imperative that spaceports have the same financial instruments that have benefited other modes of transportation,” said scott mclaughlin, executive director of spaceport america . “private investments into commercial spaceports provide a ‘public good,’ just as the growth of shipping ports and airports have. this bill will help spaceports grow to meet the nation’s need and stay the leader in space.” read the full text of the secure u.s. leadership in space act here .