let me first start by saying this is a lot better than the last time i did one of these in miami. let me begin by telling you a few moments ago i got off the phone with congressman murphy and i congratulated him on a good race. congressman murphy is a young man with a bright future and i thanked him for his willingness to step forward in public service. i was running for office as hard, putting your name on the ballot as hard, and i congratulate him and his family and i look forward to seeing the ways he is going to serve our country in the future. i want to begin by acknowledging what i always do and that is absolutely, you should patrick did a great race. all the glory and praise belongs to my creator, to god, from my personal faith, my lord and savior jesus christ. he has carried us in every moment of our life in the good times and the difficult ones and the twists and turns and there has been a number of twists and turns this year. i always acknowledge god and i thank god because the greatest blessing he has given me after the opportunity to be a citizen of the greatest nation on earth is an extraordinary woman to share my life with my wife jeanette and my four children. we had a great campaign team and i wish i could mention all of their names, there are so many great people but i do want to acknowledge someone who came here and helped us run this campaign and did a phenomenal job. there is no one better in the country right now in my opinion at running these things than the person who ran mine. his name is clint reed and i want to thank him for his work and this fantastic work. i want to thank the staff in my senate office. i cannot tell you how many people came up to me and said, you know, i am not a republican but i am going to vote for you because you guys helped me. you helped me with the social security claim. you helped me with an issue at the va and that is the work we do. we are honored to do it and that is the people that work in my offices in washington and all across florida. we have the best senate staff in america and i am grateful to them. and of course i want to thank the people of this extraordinary state for giving me another opportunity to continue to serve them in the united states senate. this is an extraordinary place, florida. it is the collection of all the things that make us the greatest nation on earth, of people who have lived here for decades, of the descendants of slaves, of the children of immigrants, florida is america. and it is such an honor to be able to represent this extraordinary state. i want to say a few words in spanish because i know people get their news in spanish, a lot of people that vote for me, learned about me in spanish, and want to start to recognize us. if you are not here, i want to start to recognize our population of puerto rican, the puerto rico that we helped. and our friends are in the island of puerto rico. puerto rico is here today. also the people of venezuela are with you and i thank you to the venezuelans who live in the united states. to the colombians who also have my wife and her family. where do they come from? i am here. yo y amente. la juano, la florida, la juano. thank you very much. we have been through an interesting year as a nation and we arrayed the results of tonight's election. but here's what i know for sure. here's what i am, here's what i am, here's what i know. there is still no nation on earth that i would rather be. despite all of our challenges, there is no country and there is no people on this planet that i would trade places with. i am glad that i am an american in the 21st century. america is going to be okay. we will turn this country around. i have faith. i know god is not done with america yet. he has great plans for our people. in the days and weeks to come, i hope that we as a people here in florida, we will set the example in this great state that while we can disagree on issues, we cannot share a country where people hate each other because of their political affiliations. we cannot move forward as a nation if we cannot have enlightened debates about tough issues. you can disagree with someone without hating them and you can disagree with them without delegitimizing their point of view. that does not mean that our diversity will not continue to divide us on critical issues. it does mean that there is no way for this nation to move forward if we leave anyone behind. and so i hope that i and my colleagues, as we return to work in washington, d.c., can set a better example of how political discourse should exist in this country.