[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 10 (Thursday, January 18, 2024)]
[House]
[Page H196]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
DENOUNCING BIDEN ADMINISTRATION'S OPEN-BORDER POLICIES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New
York (Mr. Molinaro) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MOLINARO. Mr. Speaker, President Biden and the Biden
administration have surrendered the southern border, and the policies
of this administration continue to make worse a national security
crisis, a public safety crisis, and a humanitarian crisis of epic
proportions.
Earlier this month, I joined my colleagues visiting, again, the
southern border and saw firsthand that despite the heroic work of
Border Patrol officers and despite every effort of the men and women
serving in this Nation, we have seen a total collapse in our border
security system.
There is unfettered fentanyl trafficking, a record 7 million illegal
crossings, and strained communities and law enforcement throughout our
Southern States.
This crisis, though, isn't isolated only to border States. In fact,
because of the failure of this administration, every State is a border
State. Because of the decisions made by mayors like the one in New York
City, communities like ours continue to face growing challenges and a
growing crisis.
The communities I represent are strained to provide services to those
who are homeless and housing insecure, those who are hungry and need
help, and those who struggle with mental health and substance use
disorder.
Yet, the President and the Governor of the State of New York continue
to allow Mayor Eric Adams to circumvent the law and transport human
souls to communities in upstate New York.
Deadly drug trafficking continues, with fentanyl and synthetic
opioids pouring into our country and into communities, taking countless
American lives.
We have a means to end this crisis. The President has the tools and
resources at his disposal today to confront the crisis in a way that
recognizes a concern for national security and in a way that is
compassionate. He chooses not to.
The House has adopted H.R. 2, which would strengthen border security,
enhance the asylum-seeking vetting process, and support and care for
unaccompanied minors. Yet, we see no progress from the Senate or the
President in embracing those policies.
There is a solution to securing our border, and we must act now. The
President needs to not only acknowledge the problem but work in a
bipartisan fashion to recognize the tools at his disposal and to secure
our border.
{time}  1045
Honoring the Memory of Senior Sergeant Christopher Filli of the Hudson
Police Department
Mr. MOLINARO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the memory of Senior
Sergeant Christopher Filli of the Hudson City Police Department in
Columbia County in upstate New York and acknowledging with a heavy
heart the untimely passing of a man who embodied the essence of
community, duty, and passion.
I know his family and knew Chris to be a devoted husband, father, and
son. He left us on January 12, 2024, while faithfully serving the
community he loved.
His journey began on January 19, 1973, and over the course of 22
years, he demonstrated exceptional commitment and selfless service to
the Hudson City Police Department and the Hudson community.
From his early days with the Copake and Philmont Police Departments
to his final role as senior sergeant, Chris' dedication was unwavering.
He not only protected the city of Hudson, but also found joy in a
second career as the owner of Chris Filli & Son Tree Service,
Incorporated.
Mr. Speaker, we will always remember Chris for being a family man,
cherishing every moment spent with his wife, Megan, and their children,
creating a legacy of love and great devotion. We are heartbroken but
stand united in honoring Chris' memory. May he rest in peace, and may
his legacy of dedication to his community and his family live on in our
hearts.
____________________