[Congressional Record Volume 169, Number 22 (Thursday, February 2, 2023)]
[House]
[Page H657]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
{time}  1330
SHOW ME THE CRIME
(Ms. CROCKETT asked and was given permission to address the House for
1 minute and to revise and extend her remarks.)
Ms. CROCKETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose the removal of
Congresswoman Omar from the Foreign Affairs Committee.
I begin by asking: What is the crime?
You see, Mr. Speaker, this is a question that many in this country
have been asking over the last week: What is the crime?
Now, many were referring to Tyre Nichols, but I am asking this
question as it relates to Congresswoman Omar.
Was her so-called crime allegedly committing fraud in Brazil?
Was her so-called crime allegedly breaking campaign finance laws
during her election to Congress?
Was her so-called crime stealing from a roommate?
Was her so-called crime defrauding and outright lying to her
constituents?
No, it was none of the above. These are crimes that my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle have no qualms in countenancing when it is
politically expedient.
I ask again: What is the crime?
There are those who have been accused of and/or under investigation
for participating in attacking our very democracy here on January 6,
and they have been seated on committees.
Here we are with our first African-born Member of Congress, who has
not been accused of the above crimes or any crime, and we are wasting
taxpayer dollars debating her removal from her duly appointed position
on the Foreign Affairs Committee.
I ask again, Mr. Speaker: What is her crime?
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose the removal of Congresswoman Omar
from the Foreign Affairs Committee and I begin by asking what is the
crime?
You see this is a question that many in this country have been asking
over the last week. What is the crime? Now many were referring to Tyre
Nichols, but I am asking this question as it relates to Congresswoman
Ilhan Omar.
Was her so-called crime allegedly committing fraud in Brazil?
Was her so-called crime allegedly breaking campaign finance laws
during her election to Congress?
Was her so-called crime stealing from a roommate?
Was her so-called crime defrauding and outright lying to her
constituents?
NO. None of the above.
But these are crimes that my colleagues on the other side of the
aisle have no qualm in countenancing when it is politically expedient.
So again I ask, what is the crime?
There are those that have been accused of and or under investigation
for participating in attacking our very democracy here on January 6th
and they have been seated on committees.
So here we are with our first African-born Member of Congress who has
not been accused of the above-crimes or any other crimes and we are
wasting taxpayer dollars debating her removal from her duly appointed
position on Foreign Affairs.
So I ask again--what is the crime?
I certainly hope my colleagues across the aisle will do more than
claim the moral high road and actually take the moral high road and
acknowledge the hypocrisy and do what is right. The country is tired of
the consistent double standards.
Finally, while I am still unclear of what the alleged crime is, I
sure hope Rep. Omar's so-called ``crime'' isn't the same asTyre's.
____________________