press releases news: senators blunt rochester and padilla, representative davids, 87 lawmakers urge protection of electric vehicle investments in bipartisan surface transportation negotiations november 21, 2025 washington, dc – u.s. senator lisa blunt rochester (d-del.) joined u.s. senator alex padilla (d-calif.), representative sharice davids (d-kan.-03), and 87 other lawmakers in pushing senate environment and public works and house transportation and infrastructure committee leadership to protect electric vehicle (ev) investments while reauthorizing bipartisan surface transportation legislation. the lawmakers reaffirmed their commitment to supporting a similar bipartisan surface transportation process to the historic passage of the bipartisan infrastructure law, but they stressed that the reauthorization cannot truly be bipartisan if it furthers the administration’s attacks on electric vehicles. since taking office, the trump administration has sought to dismantle federal read more » november 21, 2025 news: senator blunt rochester examines the impact of pfas on our environment november 19, 2025 click here to watch senator blunt rochester’s full exchange with the witnesses. washington, dc – u.s. senator lisa blunt rochester (d-del.), a member of the senate environment and public works committee, today participated in a hearing to examine the impact of pfas (per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances) and the future of their cleanup and disposal. to watch senator blunt rochester’s full exchange with the witnesses, click here. key excerpts can be found below: senator blunt rochester: “the development of thousands of pfas varieties have become a part of modern industries, from corrosion-preventing coatings in our electronics, automobiles, and medical devices, to safety applications such as firefighting foams that keep read more » november 19, 2025 news: senator blunt rochester, senate democrats call for independent watchdog investigation into fhfa director pulte’s potential misuse of federal authority and resources to target democratic officials november 18, 2025 washington, dc – u.s. senator lisa blunt rochester (d-del.), a member of the senate banking, housing, and urban affairs committee, today joined senator elizabeth warren (d-mass.), ranking member of the banking committee, senator dick durbin (d-ill.), ranking member of the senate judiciary committee, and senators sheldon whitehouse (d-r.i.), jack reed (d-r.i.), chris van hollen (d-md.), tina smith (d-minn.), and catherine cortez masto (d-nev.) to send a letter to comptroller general gene dodaro. in their letter, the senators called for a government accountability office (gao) investigation into federal housing finance agency (fhfa) director william pulte, including in his capacity as the chair of both fannie mae and freddie mac’s boards, and other fhfa employees’ potential misuse of federal authority read more » november 18, 2025 popular keywords categories no record found view all results