news: senator blunt rochester, congresswoman beatty honor black veterans ahead of veterans day november 10, 2025 washington, dc – u.s. senator lisa blunt rochester (d-del.) introduced a resolution, s.con.res.23, to recognize black veterans across american history, honor their heroic military sacrifices, acknowledge the unique challenges they encounter upon their arrival home, and call for the u.s. department of veterans affairs to continue seeking solutions to mend the health and benefit disparities for minority veterans. u.s. representative joyce beatty (d-ohio-3) introduced the companion resolution in the u.s. house of representatives. “generations of black veterans have served in our armed forces with honor and distinction but came home to a nation that did not grant them the same rights as their peers,” said senator blunt rochester. “as some seek to erase our history, congresswoman joyce beatty and i are standing united to introduce a resolution to honor america’s black veterans and recommit to supporting them when they return home. let us remember their sacrifice and service to our nation as we commemorate veterans day.” “our black servicemembers have played a vital role in defending our nation, even while experiencing brutal racial discrimination at home. many put their lives on the line to defend our freedom, then returned to a society that afforded them fewer rights than their fellow white servicemembers,” said congresswoman beatty. “though the civil rights era has ended, racial disparities have not. in the past year, the current administration has repeatedly attacked the legacy and history of african americans — at our military bases, in our classrooms, and in every corner of our society. these resolutions are not only a statement of recognition; they are a clarion call to my republican colleagues that our nation’s commitment to honoring black veterans must never waver. every servicemember deserves dignity, respect, and the care they have earned.” in 2023, while a member of the house of representatives, blunt rochester helped lead the effort to request that president joe biden formally recognize tuskegee airmen commemoration day on the fourth thursday in march. as a result, president biden recognized that day on march 28, 2024. the full text of s.con.res.23 can be found here . ### senator lisa blunt rochester represents delaware in the united states senate where she serves on the committees on banking, housing, and urban affairs; commerce, science, and transportation; environment and public works; and health, education, labor, and pensions.