news: senator blunt rochester examines the impact of pfas on our environment november 19, 2025 click here to watch senator blunt rochester’s full exchange with the witnesses. washington, dc – u.s. senator lisa blunt rochester (d-del.), a member of the senate environment and public works committee, today participated in a hearing to examine the impact of pfas (per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances) and the future of their cleanup and disposal. to watch senator blunt rochester’s full exchange with the witnesses, click here . key excerpts can be found below: senator blunt rochester: “the development of thousands of pfas varieties have become a part of modern industries, from corrosion-preventing coatings in our electronics, automobiles, and medical devices, to safety applications such as firefighting foams that keep us safe. pfas [are] now part of our world, but these advancements have come with a cost. without proper disposal, these chemicals contaminate our soil and water, putting our communities at risk for increased rates of serious health conditions including cancer, infertility, and birth defects. we need to work together to protect the public health and the environment from pfas. my first question is for you, ms. bowers. prior to the designation of pfoa and pfas as hazardous substances, how did epa handle the cleanup of these pollutants at superfund sites?” ms. bowers: “thank you for the question, senator. prior to the designation, pfas and pfoa were not considered hazardous substances under cercla. and so, cleanup authority to address them was more limited. i should note that it is common for more than one contaminant of concern to be present at a cleanup site under cercla. and so, it might have been the case that where pfas was co-located with other contaminants of concern, it may have been cleaned up or addressed incidental to other contaminants. but, prior to designation, epa’s response authority to address pfas would only have been available to address an imminent and substantial endangerment to public health or the environment.” ### senator lisa blunt rochester represents delaware in the united states senate where she serves on the committees on banking, housing, and urban affairs; commerce, science, and transportation; environment and public works; and health, education, labor, and pensions.