let me end with some remarks, a little more personal. you see in our country's history, there have always been two different visions of america, two different strands. there has been leaders like lincoln who appealed to the better angels of our nature, and there has also been an uglier strand that the country has always had to deal with, whether that strand was xenophobia, or racism, or slavery, or segregation. the great thing about this nation is that the better vision of america always wins out in the long run. i believe, i believe in an america that will compete not by playing to stereotypes, but will compete by striving for excellence. i believe in an america that will not begrudge other nations their success, but will lead by inventing the future. i believe in an america that will not close itself off to the rest of the world, but will embrace the dreams of people around the world. you see, that is the america my parents came to. that is the america. they came in these heavy times in the 1960s. john f. kennedy calling us to send a man to the moon. this time where people believed in this nation's ability to inspire the world. you know what? i saw a glimpse of that america and these young kids who were knocking doors. i saw it in them. this sense that there is this one place in the world where merit and hard work can take you as far as you want to go. people say this election is about my condo or me, tech versus labor, you know, the democratic establishment versus the sheryl sandberg, but you know what? they get it all wrong. they get it all wrong. this election is about something much deeper. this election is about the soul of our nation. what type of america do we want to be? i believe years from now, regardless of the results and i know we are going to do very well in winning november, but i believe years from now when people look back and they look at this room. they will say in this unique city of kupertino, in this unique city began a unique moment where the children of immigrants from india and vietnam and china and the philippines were signed by side with third and fourth generation santa clarence to renew a sense of purpose in our nation and restore our democratic ideals, to pave the way for the america that my parents came to, to pave the way for a new great american century. that is what we are fighting for. this is our mission. that is why we must win in november. thank you.