my conduct is played courage in overcoming one of the darkest chapters in american history, the internment of 120,000 japanese americans. he built a normanena's legacy to say never again, mr. hanukkah stood up for the rights of arab americans, iranian americans, chinese americans, korean americans, and transgender americans even when it was not popular. i plan to reach out to him, extend friendship and respect, and i hope you will continue to be an active and strong voice on these issues. but the son of indian immigrants could run against the survivor of japanese internment, shows just how far america has come. i do not think my parents could have ever imagined it. where are my parents? i do not think they would have imagined it. when they first stood in line at jfk airport waiting to have their passport stamped. i do not think they would have imagined it when they took the oath of office, the oath of citizenship. only in america can the middle-class son of a schoolteacher and a chemical engineer who came to this country with no money grow up to represent the most powerful economic district in the world. you see both my parents and rithus parents. where are rithus parents? there they are. let us get them around the world. i want them to share their belief in this country's fundamental decency. they raised us to believe that in america anything is possible. i personally say rithu married me as an example. their story is the story of a community that will now add its voice to the american course. we are trying out to the bay area, california and to our nation. here in silicon valley we have new communities that have something to offer, new activists who want to give that new-dom voices who want to answer the call to service. we did not see to diminish the past. what we sought to do is prepare for the future. we believe that in time and software is transforming every industry, when workers are competing against machines, our nation desperately needs stronger leadership from this region. we need new solutions for how to create jobs in the face of automation. we need to make educating our workforce in a global economy the highest priority of government. we need to figure out how to lift up those with a technology revolution as left behind. and we need to make the case that having the best and brightest from around the world makes us stronger, not weaker. i am very hopeful of the future, no matter which side of the national election you may have been on. i believe years from now when people will look at this room, take a look at the folks across this room, they will say, i wince the future of america. i wince the future of the first nation in history that has people from every part of the globe bound by a commitment to build an order just and peaceful world. is that not a brilliant future? think about it after centuries of wars, assassinations, coups, interments, colonial overreach to think that a new america will lead a new century of peace, a century of innovation, a century of understanding. my friends, i know our journey has been long to get here, but our work is just beginning. let us come together rising above the divisions abouled by a sense of purpose and possibility to renew our faith in the great american political experiment so that we might achieve that elusive dream while linking prophesies as a just and lasting case among ourselves and with all nations. it has been a great campaign in jordan. thank you. i now want to thank some folks. i want to thank everyone. people at berkeley do this, say, you are so boring. when you start thanking everyone going on and on, and then you all know that i believe this is some people. i know you will. i am here as long as you are here to meet afterwards, but i did not want to single some folks out. of course, my wife. people say what is the difference between last campaign and this campaign, and i say, let go. and she is just been extraordinary. i think sometimes you do not realize how difficult it is to partner the running for office as being by someone's side when they run for office. and she is picked me up at my lowest moments and encouraged me at the highest moments. and i am deeply grateful and proud of her. i am a family. my parents, big gay and jokes, i kind of, my brother. i am proud of coming up more, and i am not going to miss. i am so honored to have riffus karen here, monti and wuchau, who to thank you for all the years. of course, people of this place need no introduction to steve spinner, who has given. for four years, throughout his life, tired of his life as he reminds me for this campaign, selflessly, and his kids are here, wonderful to see you see. this is a no-word. i get jotted these notes in coming. i wanted to recognize our extraordinary team and paying team, michael amler. like, oh! kevin sam, eddie, gary, chris, my mom. they were the heart and soul. 40,000 doors. they were amazing. let us give them another round of applause. i want to say, please bear with me, just a few more minutes. josh allen, i saw john. john's been wonderful with jokes. i have been visiting this old man, and i went in david berger, if he is here to recognize them for their leadership. i see fallet and kamal, where my journey began 10 years ago at their home. the name is david and he is extraordinary, and he can jog each other, who is there in every step. and rahul roy, who was chair and brought together everyone in three months, so that we had to bring people and succeed. and our vice chairs, frank paschravi, rusty, rusty's always tweeting. rusty room. frank paschravi is an idol of the gwani here on all, is an amazing person. and michal gromor, wherever michal is, has just given his life also to this campaign. thank you, michal. i see a great shot from this day. thank you, michal, for the very early fights. and maye shabrina. thank you, maye shabrina for everything you have done. thank you. thank you. chris pickles will organize this event. let us give him a round of applause. jopin' out on the floor.