hi, i am assembly speaker, pro tem, kevin mullin, and i am proud to represent san mateo county in the california state assembly. welcome to another edition of capital connection, my video message series, designed to keep my constituents updated on what is happening at the state capital. i am happy to report that the 2017-18 legislative session is often running. when governor brown delivered his state-of-the-state address in january, he urged both houses of legislature to continue working together for all californians. over the past six years we have increased support for public schools, increased the minimum wage, served as a world leader in climate change while also closing a massive budget deficit and creating a rainy day fund. our most recent accomplishment was the passage of sb1, the comprehensive long overdue transportation package that will provide much needed investments in roadways and public transit throughout california. our transportation infrastructure already had many glaring needs and this winter's heavy rain exposed even more fragile roadways and desperate need of repair. i know san mateo county residents experienced the deterioration of our roads firsthand and given the work i have done over the past two years to address the poor conditions on highway 101, i am pleased to let you know that sb1 includes $300 million to address this important stretch of roadway. passing the transportation package was a major achievement however we still have many pressing issues before us. the 2017-18 budget must be adopted by june 15th. the governor's proposed budget is a generally prudent approach and anticipates declining revenue projections in california based on the unknown economic impact that may result from potential changes in the amount of federal funding under the trump administration. in spite of these uncertainties we absolutely must find a way to make affordable housing available, particularly workforce housing. so more californians can live closer to where they work. our housing crisis continues to spiral at a time when workforce housing is needed most to maintain our economic growth. i am proud to be working with assembly member david chu and other legislative colleagues to craft the affordable housing legislation that makes sense and addresses this critical issue. as a member of the budget committee i look forward to working with my assembly and senate colleagues to build on the governor's budget proposal and craft a sustainable budget with growing out-year reserves and smart investments to strengthen the middle class, reduce poverty and fulfill the promise of access to quality medical care. my legislative package includes a total of 23 bills which focus on the following areas. elections, social equity, transportation and the innovation economy. i look forward to sharing more details with you in the next edition of capital connection. you can also obtain more information on my full legislative package by visiting my website and following me on facebook. i hope you have enjoyed this edition of capital connection. i would like to invite residents of san mateo county to contact me by visiting my website and clicking on the contact kevin button or calling my office with suggestions or feedback. it is an honor to represent you in the california state assembly and thank you for watching.