sorry to keep you waiting, come without a business. thank you very much. i have just received a call from secretary clinton. she congratulated us, it is about us, one of our victims, and i congratulated her and her family on a very, very hard, poor campaign. she is my very own. it really has worked very long and very hard over a long period of time, and we owe her a major debt of gratitude for her service to our country. now it is time for america to define the wounds of division, and have to get together. to all republicans and democrats and independents across this nation, i say it is time for us to come together as one united people. i pledge to every citizen of ireland that i will be president for all americans, and this is so important to me. for those who have chosen not to support me in the past, what is there where if you could? i am reaching out to you for your guidance and your help, so that we can work together and unify our great country. as i have said for a living day, ours was not a campaign, but rather an incredible and great movement, made up of millions of hard-working men and women who love their country and want a better, broader future for themselves and for deaf and deaf. it is a movement comprised of americans from all races, religions, backgrounds, and beliefs who want and expect our government to serve the people and serve the people it will. looking again, we have begun the urgent task of rebuilding our nation and renewing the american dream. i have spent my entire eyes on this, looking at the untapped potential in projects and in people all over the world. that is now what i want to do for our country. from men to people, from deaf and deaf in all countries, so well tremendous potential. it is going to be a beautiful thing. every single american will have the opportunity to realize his or her fullest potential. forgotten men and women of all country will be forgotten no longer. we do not own your fence, our inner self, and we build our high-wires, bridges, tunnels, and board schools, hospitals. we are going to rebuild our infrastructure, which will become, by the way, second to none. and we will put millions of our people to work as we rebuild it. we will also finally take care of our great veterans. and we will show you all of our adapter and show them all of this 18 month journey. the time i have spent with them during this campaign has been among my greatest honors. our veterans are incredible people. we will embark upon a project of national growth and renewal. i will harness the creative talents of our people, and we will call upon the best and brightest to leverage their tremendous talent for the benefit of all. we have a great economic journey. we will double our growth and have the strongest economy anywhere in the world. at the same time, we will get along with all other nations, willing to get along with great dimensions. we expect to have great, great relationships. no dream is too big, no challenge is too great. nothing we want for our future is beyond our reach. america will no longer settle for anything less than the best. we wish we could have our country's destiny. and dream big and bold and daring. we have to do that. we are going to dream of things for our country and beautiful things. and success for our fighters once again. i want to tell the world community that while we will always put america's interest for us, we will be friendly with everyone, with everyone, for people and all other nations. we will seek common ground, not hostility, partnership, not conflict. and now i would like to take this moment to thank some of the people who really helped me with this, and i am very proud of them. first i want to thank my parents, who i know are looking down at the world. thank you. i have learned so much from them. they were wonderful in every way we grow. they had truly great parents. i also want to thank my sisters, mary and elizabeth. thank you for the rest of my life. i am very proud of them. they are very strong and strong. and my brother robert, my great son, mary and my brother robert. i wish you all the end of the stage. but that is our thing. they were great. and also my late brother, fred, kim bracelet. fantastic, thank you. i am very happy. great brothers, sisters, great unbelievable parents. tomalania and bob. andy baca. and mary. antiphany. and i love you. and i thank you. and especially for putting up with all of those hours this way. tomalania and bob. and i love you. and especially for putting up with all of those hours, this way. tomalania and bob. and i love you. and i love you, thank you. and that is it, thank you. thank you very much. water grigter. you have all given me such incredible support. and i will tell you that we have a large group of people. you know they kept saying we have a small staff. that is us. look it over to all the people. look it over to these people. we, and steve and david, we have got tremendous talented people up here. and i want to tell you, it is been very, very special. i want to give a very special thanks to our former mayor, rudy giuliani. we traveled with us and we went through a meeting in that early never-changing, very, very exciting. rudy, governor chris christie foxfuss. thank you. the first man for senator, first major, major politician. let me tell you, he is highly respected and more cheeky because he is a smart, as you get. senator jeff sessions. great man. very tough to tell him. he was that easy. he was that easy. he was that easy. he was that easy to tell him. another great man who has been a rare, a friend to me, but i will tell you, i got to know him as a competitor because he was one of the folks that was negotiating to go against those democrats. dr. ben carson. and by the way, my property is here someplace, and he is steve. woo! mike and his family, sarah. thank you very much. and we have donald mike flynn. woo! and general kelly. we have over 200 generals and that goes that i have endorsed our campaign. and there is special people, really, and we have 22 congressional medal of honor recipients. we have just two of this, really. a very special person who believed me and you know i have read reports that i was not getting along with him. i had a bad second breath. he is an unbelievable star. he is, that is right, how did you possibly guess? so let me tell you about rines. and i have said this. i said rines. and i know who would honor us people out of the world. i know rines is a superstar, but i said they cannot call you a superstar rines unless we win. because you cannot call me a superstar like secretary of secretary can and second. secretary would not have that big beautiful bronze bus at the track at bellman. but i will tell you rines is really the star. and he is the hardest work of the world. it is a separate way to get this bronze. come on, get it over here. get on. get on. it is about time you get this right. ladies and gentlemen, the next president of the united states, donald trump. thank you. thank you. our partnership with the r&c is so important to the success of what we have done. so i also have to say i have gotten to know some incredible people, the secret service people. we have trump and this one and this one and this one. and i do not want to mess around with them. yeah, when i want to go on the wave to a big group of people and they rip me down and put me back down to the city. but they are fantastic people. so i want to thank the secret service. and the law enforcement in new york city, they are here to know. thank you. i am just a fantastic people. sometimes i am going to appreciate it and unfortunately, but we appreciate them. we know what they are going to do. so it is been one they call a historic event. but to be really historic, we have to do a great job. and i promise you that i will not let you down. we will do what we are doing. and hopefully at the end of two years or three years or four years or maybe even eight years. you will say something that you look so much for. you will say that that was something that you were really very proud to do. and i can thank you very much. and i can only say that while the campaign is over our work on this movement is now really just beginning. we are going to get together. and we are going to be doing a job that hopefully you will be so proud of your president. you will be so proud. again, it is my honor. it is an amazing evening. it is been an amazing two-year period. and i love this country. thank you.