democrat kevin mullin is the new representative for california's 15th congressional district, one of nearly 80 new house members in the 118th congress. he told c-span about the advice his predecessor former representative jackie spear gave him coming into the job and about what he was doing in state and local government before being elected to congress. so i was a california state assembly member. i was the speaker of pro-tam of our california state assembly, the number two officer in the assembly for 10 years. and prior to that, i was a city council member and mayor in the city of south san francisco, which we like to remind people of the birthplace of biotechnology. if you fly out of sfo, you will see south san francisco, the industrial city, big white letters on our sign hill. that is my hometown and i was a small business owner before that. i had a small communications business and i was a legislative aide to jackie spear. my predecessor in congress, when she was a state legislator, i worked for her as an aide. did she give you any advice when you decided to run for this seat? oh absolutely. there was no shortage of advice, thankfully, from congresswoman jackie spear. she is an icon on the san francisco peninsula, given her 40 years of public life. she is got an incredible personal story. she is a household name to say the least. and frankly, it was surprising to everybody, frankly, when she announced her retirement. she suggested that i run. she had been watching me not only for my days as an aide to her, but as a state assembly member, state legislator in my own right, and she thought i was a worthy successor. so i decided to run and really what motivated me was democracy issues, elections, issues. i have been a lot of work on those issues in the california legislature and our democracy is hanging in the balance here in washington dc and that is why i decided to run. but i have sought her counsel and will continue to do so as i get my footing here as a freshman in this big institution. have you always been interested in politics and holding public office? not always, although i am the product of some kitchen table conversations. my mother when i was growing up was a republican. my father, a government teacher, is a civil rights era liberal. government teacher believed in civic participation. so undoubtedly that rubbed off on me. and continue to be interested in civic matters, obviously, as i find myself here at the capital. but way back when i was a mobile dj, i actually had the dj nickname cutmaster keevy keev if you can believe that wanted to be a club dj, wanted to mix records and be a radio dj. that did not pan out. i found myself starting a small business and eventually finding my way into politics. but clearly, being the son of a government teacher who had the c-span school bus, by the way, come to his classroom way back when certainly that rubbed off. it is part of my dna. mom, still a republican? always a republican? my mom is no longer with us. she did, however, convert to become a democrat during the clinton era. she loved bill clinton and became a democrat. so there was some unified democratic discussion from that point forward. where do you trace your democratic roots to? why are you a democrat? well, i believe in the role of government in helping people. basically, public investment, i think, is crucial to building a better america. i think growing up in my father's household where civic engagement and the role of participating in one's government was so central. i think that really made me a democrat. i think over time, i saw just the role that government can play in a positive way in people's lives. as we deal with these economic challenges, working people and lowering income individuals who need assistance from the government, i think that the civic participation piece is really at the core of why i am a democrat. inclusive government, participation in government, participation in voting, lowering the barriers to participation in our democracy. that is all why i became a democrat at 18 and i am still a democrat. favorite artist? music. favorite music artist? challenging question. to the former dj. i am so old school. i am going to go back to my early dj days and run dmc, which the younger staff here may not even know that reference. but i was when i began my dj work as a mobile dj, inspired by run dmc and some of the early hip hop that dates back to the 80s now. so that is before their generation. but we will go with that one for right now. i would say more broadly, youtube is my favorite band of all time and hope to see them. i think they are back out on the road pretty soon. so how look forward to seeing them.