[Congressional Record Volume 169, Number 214 (Tuesday, January 2, 2024)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E1265]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
RECOGNIZING MR. GLENN E. DENTON, JR.
______
HON. DAVID G. VALADAO
of california
in the house of representatives
Tuesday, January 2, 2024
Mr. VALADAO. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Mr. Glenn
E. Denton, Jr., who passed away on November 25, 2023. He was 73 years
old.
Mr. Denton was born in Rushville, Nebraska to Glenn and Joyce Denton.
He was one of nine children. From an early age, Mr. Denton learned the
value of hard work and perseverance, having grown up working on his
family's ranch. After his high school graduation in 1968, Mr. Denton
enlisted in the United States Marine Corps, following in the footsteps
of his grandfather, who served in the Civil War, and father, who served
during World War II. In 1969, while on a mission to recover the remains
of fallen Marines in Vietnam, Mr. Denton, along with seven of his
comrades in the 1st Marine Division, made a promise to each other to
share the stories of the Marines who lost their lives--all while
sharing Kool-Aid together. From that day on, the eight Marines became
known as the Kool-Aid Kids. After his service, Mr. Denton moved to
Bakersfield, where he became a recruiter for the Marine Corps. Soon
after his move, Mr. Denton acquired a 10-acre parcel of land, which was
first used by his fellow Marines as a place to gather. During this
time, he remained steadfast in his commitment to preserving the legacy
of his fellow servicemembers who lost their lives during the war.
In 1978, the Kool-Aid Kids' mission inspired him to start Camp
Hamilton Veterans Memorial on his parcel, a nonprofit dedicated to
honoring service men and women from all branches of the military. Mr.
Denton named the memorial after his brother in arms, Leonard Hamilton.
Today, Camp Hamilton has planted more than 339 trees to honor
servicemembers who lost their lives during or as a consequence of war.
With the help of the Memorial's dedicated volunteers, Camp Hamilton has
become a place where servicemembers, veterans, families, and loved ones
come together to celebrate the sacrifice and bravery of the Marines,
airmen, soldiers, and sailors from across the Central Valley.
After a career spanning nearly thirty years, Mr. Denton retired in
1995 as a Master Gunnery Sergeant. He was a highly decorated Marine,
having been awarded a prestigious Purple Heart medal to honor his
bravery and sacrifice during the Vietnam War. Mr. Denton is survived by
his siblings, children, and his loving wife, Esther. Mr. Denton's
service to our country, commitment to his family, and dedication to the
Bakersfield community will forever be remembered.
Mr. Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues in the House of
Representatives to join me in honoring the incredible life of Mr. Glenn
E. Denton, Jr.