[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 25 (Thursday, February 11, 2016)]
[House]
[Page H716]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
IN RECOGNITION OF ADMIRAL ROBERT SHUMAKER ON THE 51ST ANNIVERSARY OF
HIS IMPRISONMENT DURING THE VIETNAM WAR
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. Dold) for 5 minutes.
Mr. DOLD. Mr. Speaker, today, February 11, a day that for at least
me, and I know many other families around our country, is a very dark
day.
February 11, 1965, flying off of the USS Coral Sea, a young
lieutenant commander, Robert Harper Shumaker, was prepared to do a
bombing run over North Vietnam.
Taking antiaircraft fire, he was shot down over North Vietnam. He
ejected from his F-8 Crusader 35 feet above the ground, broke his back
upon impact, and was immediately captured.
Over the next 8 years, 8 years and a day, he spent time in the Hoa Lo
Prison, a prison that we now know as the Hanoi Hilton, one that he was
able to name the Hanoi Hilton.
He was considered to be the great communicator because, while he was
in captivity, he and a few others devised a tap code system, a tap code
system with five rows and five columns that enabled American POWs to
communicate with one another to be able to let them know that they were
thinking of each other, to be able to make sure that they were
exercising the most important muscle in captivity, that is, their
brains.
Over the course of those 8 years, Lieutenant Commander Shumaker was
considered to be one of the top greatest threats to camp security.
He and 10 other POWs, commonly known as the Alcatraz 11, were taken
out of the Hoa Lo Prison, brought over to a prison now known as
Alcatraz, and put in solitary confinement.
These 11 heroes included James Stockdale; George Coker; Jeremiah
Denton, who was a Senator from the great State of Alabama; Harry
Jenkins; George McKnight; James Mulligan; Howard Rutledge; Ron Storz;
Nels Tanner; and, Mr. Speaker, our colleague Sam Johnson of Texas, who
was elected to this body in 1991 and has served with distinction ever
since.
{time}  1030
Many of the stories that we look back on came from these heroes about
the efforts they made to resist their captors. They were tortured day
in and day out for information. Yet, day in and day out, they battled
back.
For me, it is very important that we never forget. Fifty-one years
after February 11, 1965, I am honored to be able to rise in this body
to remember Robert Harper Shumaker for his valiant efforts and heroism.
He is near and dear to my heart, Mr. Speaker. He is my uncle. When my
wife and I had our first child, we decided we would name her after him,
in the hopes that she would have a little bit of the courage, a little
bit of the intelligence, and the stick-to-itiveness that Admiral
Shumaker has.
The good news, Mr. Speaker, is that February 12, 1973, 591 POWs
started their return home. Bob Shumaker, the Alcatraz 11, and many
others were on that C-141 that flew out of Hanoi. I am proud to say
that they returned home with honor, which was absolutely critical not
only for them, but for all of the POWs. It is imperative that we in the
United States Congress never forget their sacrifice and heroism.
For me, from now, until as long as I am able to serve in this body,
on February 11, I will rise and recognize the heroism of our POWs and
say: You will never be forgotten. We will always remember the sacrifice
and the heroism that you all have given to our Nation.
____________________