[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 7 (Tuesday, January 12, 2016)]
[House]
[Page H288]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
BARBARA STOCKTON PERRY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. Holding) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HOLDING. Mr. Speaker, on New Year's Day, we mourned the loss of a
great lady, Barbara Stockton Perry. Today I rise to celebrate Barbara's
89 years of life that she devoted to her Christian faith, to her
family, and to her community.
Barbara was born on November 3, 1926, in the town of Franklin, which
is a small North Carolina mountain community that is tucked away under
the Great Smoky Mountains.
Though the population was very small, Barbara had a large personality
and a keen mind. She was the valedictorian of Franklin High School in
1943, and she graduated cum laude from Brenau College in 1947.
{time}  1030
She then went on to the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill
School of Law. She was the only woman in the class of 1950, and she was
a member of the law review as well. This was classic Barbara,
distinguishing herself as a highly intelligent woman who was not afraid
to break glass ceilings.
Barbara's first position out of law school was as assistant legal
counsel to the Belk Stores Corporation in Charlotte. Then, after
marrying Warren Perry in June of 1951, she moved to Kinston, North
Carolina, with him and became a partner at Perry, Perry and Perry law
firm. There, she became involved in the State bar and the local bar and
was named to the Board of Governors of the North Carolina Bar
Association.
Community service was important to Barbara. So throughout her life,
she donated her time and efforts to a long list of organizations,
including the United Way, the North Carolina Symphony, the Kinston Arts
Council, the Kinston-Lenoir County Bicentennial Commission, and the
Pride of Kinston organization. A lifelong educational advocate, Barbara
also served on the Board of Trustees of Parrot Academy, Lenoir
Community College, Brenau University, and UNC-Chapel Hill, where she
was elected to two terms on the Board of Governors of the entire 16-
university UNC system.
In recognition of her contributions to North Carolina, she was
honored by two North Carolina Governors, Jim Holshouser and Pat
McCrory. Both of these Governors awarded her the Order of the Long Leaf
Pine. If ever anyone instilled and fostered pride in the great State of
North Carolina, certainly it was Barbara Stockton Perry.
Ever devoted to faith, Barbara served for many years on the board of
Angel Ministries. She was a long-time member of the Gordon Street
Christian Church and more recently joined the Faith Fellowship Church.
While her contributions to her community are beyond measure,
Barbara's true joy was her family. She lost the love of her life,
Warren, in 2003, but theirs was a life filled with adventure. By all
accounts, they traveled the world together and shared a dance on all
seven continents. At home, this extraordinary lady was known to her
family simply as Mama Perry. She was happiest when she was surrounded
by her children, grandchildren, and extended family.
Mr. Speaker, it is impossible to condense the life of this truly
remarkable woman into a few short minutes. I will close in saying that
I was honored and privileged to know her, and I give thanks to Barbara
Perry for devoting her life to her family, her community, and her
faith. She will be missed beyond measure. May God always bless her.
____________________