[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 45 (Tuesday, March 22, 2016)]
[House]
[Page H1499]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
U.S.-INDIA DEFENSE STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. Holding) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HOLDING. Mr. Speaker, the United States is fortunate to have
allies and partners across the world that we work with every day to
combat terrorism and our other security challenges.
One of these relationships that I work closely on is the strategic
partnership between the United States and India. Together, the U.S. and
India face a set of common security challenges, and there can be no
question that closer defense and security cooperation between our two
democracies will greatly benefit all of our people.
Over the last few years, Mr. Speaker, we have seen substantial growth
in this partnership, most recently formalized last year with the 10-
year renewal of the defense framework. This partnership is also
highlighted by forums such as the U.S.-India Defense Technology and
Trade Initiative. I firmly believe that Congress should be supporting
and offering more opportunities for the U.S.-India defense partnership
to succeed.
{time}  1015
That is why today I will be introducing the U.S.-India Defense
Technology and Partnership Act. This legislation will cement the
progress that has already been made and will lay the foundation for
future cooperation and growth.
Additionally, this legislation will elevate India's status by
shortening the time required for the notification of sale or export of
defense articles from the United States to India.
It will also bring our defense establishment closer together by
encouraging more joint contingency planning and will require the U.S.
Government to review and assess India's ability to execute military
operations of mutual interest.
Just as important as efforts like the legislation I am introducing
today, I believe, is Congress' closer examination and oversight of
other actions that impact the U.S.-India partnership.
One that certainly comes to mind, Mr. Speaker, is the delicate and,
at times, seemingly confused policy with Pakistan. Pakistan has proven
time and time again that it is an unreliable partner.
While Pakistan has taken some, but very limited, action to disrupt
terror elements that operate within their borders, their demonstrated
unwillingness to fulfill and execute counterterrorism efforts should
leave no question as to their true intentions.
So why, Mr. Speaker, last month, did the administration notice a sale
of eight F-16s to Pakistan? What, I ask, is the benefit of the sale to
our national security and the security of the region and our partners?
This is one question, Mr. Speaker. But the request to use taxpayer
dollars to finance the sale of these F-16s to Pakistan is entirely
another question. What has Pakistan actually done to deserve these
fighter jets, let alone financing from the United States taxpayers?
Certainly not enough, in my view, as I firmly oppose the sale from
start to finish.
Every year since 2011, the administration has been required to
utilize a waiver to continue providing security assistance to Pakistan.
Why, you might ask, does the administration need to continually use a
waiver? Well, it is because Pakistan has failed to be an honest and
real partner in the efforts to combat terrorism that is exported from
its borders.
On this front, Mr. Speaker, I have joined with Congressman Bera to
seek a restriction on the availability of security assistance to
Pakistan next fiscal year. We are not seeking to completely prohibit
the use of the Presidential waiver--although, I might add, this is a
debate worth having here in the House. We are simply asking that 30
percent of the funds should not be subject to a waiver. This is a
commonsense step that will, hopefully, after years of trying, get the
Pakistani Government to cooperate and meet the requirements set in law.
Mr. Speaker, India should know that they have a strong and committed
partner in the U.S. Congress, and I believe that steps such as passing
the appropriations fence I just outlined and passing the U.S.-India
Defense Technology and Partnership Act would send a strong message and
certainly enhance our strategic partnership with India.
Mr. Speaker, we have a tremendous opportunity in front of us right
now to further build an enduring defense and security partnership with
India that will endure for years to come and, indeed, benefit both of
our great democracies.
____________________