[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 30 (Thursday, February 25, 2016)]
[House]
[Pages H898-H899]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
HONORING ALLAN BOWLES ON HIS RETIREMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. Dold) for 5 minutes.
Mr. DOLD. Mr. Speaker, on the occasion of his retirement on February
29, 2016, I rise to thank Allan Bowles for over 32 years of outstanding
service to the United States House of Representatives.
Allan began his career in the labor division on September 1, 1983.
Shortly after that, he worked as a storeroom clerk. Not long after
that, he made his way into the cabinet shop and began his rapid assent
through the ranks from apprentice to journeyman cabinetmaker.
He can be proud of the many projects that were successfully completed
during his tenure. Some of these projects include custom cabinets made
for Speaker Wright and Members in leadership, such as Mr. Hoyer, Mr.
Army, and Ms. Pelosi.
Allan's list of accomplishments is indeed long. In over 32 years, he
has produced some of the most exemplary and useful projects, many of
which are still being utilized today.
[[Page H899]]
Allan's cabinetmaking expertise and craftsmanship are evident in his
body of work. He has worked tirelessly alongside other House employees
to make the House more secure following the events of September 11 and
the anthrax incident of 2001.
His reputation in the shop for lighthearted humor and quick wit made
for long-lasting friendships and camaraderie in the shop. He brought a
unique brand of comedy and teamwork to the cabinet shop, which serves
the House from behind the scenes.
He made a long-term commitment to excellence and improved services to
the House community. In addition, Allan's dedication to his craft and
customer service skills made him an extremely valuable member of the
service team. Allan has dedicated his life to making the CAO and the
United States House of Representatives a better place.
After his retirement from the House, he plans to enjoy country
living, fishing, and hunting. He also plans to keep busy working in his
own shop in southern Maryland.
On behalf of the entire House community, I extend our congratulations
to Allan Bowles for his dedication and outstanding contributions to the
United States House of Representatives. We wish him many wonderful
years in fulfilling his retirement dreams.
Honoring Anthony Thompson on His Retirement
Mr. DOLD. Mr. Speaker, on the occasion of his retirement on March 3,
2016, I rise to thank Anthony Thompson for over 34 years of outstanding
service to the United States House of Representatives.
Anthony began his career with the House, in November 1981, as an
apprentice cabinetmaker in the House cabinet shop. Over the next 34
years, he was promoted to various positions, to include lead
cabinetmaker, or ``third man''; assistant foreman; and eventually
became manager of the House cabinet shop. His accomplishments are far
too lengthy to list in this tribute; however, there are two examples of
his contributions that are worthy of recognition.
Anthony designed and constructed the first offsite House floor
furniture set which may be used, heaven forbid, in the event that the
House Chamber is unavailable for use. He has been instrumental in the
design and construction of all the succeeding sets of furniture as
well.
He was also involved in the design and construction of the House
floor stenographer's table that sits to my right. The table was
designed with new technology in mind, while still matching the original
design, look, and feel of the existing dais.
On a more personal note and equally worthy of recognition, Anthony
has dedicated his life to making the CAO and the United States House of
Representatives a better place. He has passed along his many years of
cabinetmaking experience to staff and coworkers so that they can
continue the extremely high standards of quality craftsmanship that
have come to be expected of the House cabinet shop. Upon his
retirement, he plans to use his extraordinary talents continuing to
make beautiful, one-of-a-kind pieces of furniture for the private
sector.
On behalf of the entire House community, I extend our congratulations
to Anthony for his many years of dedication and outstanding
contributions to the United States House of Representatives. I am
honored to call him a friend, and I wish him all the best in the years
to follow.
____________________