is that are not occupied. thank you, professor yieldback. thank you. congresswoman luna is recognized for five minutes. can you guys hear me? ok. i just want to note that this has been a topic that has come up before with epa. but of the endangered species, only about 3.7 of the species have ever been delisted. and the reason i bring that back is because i obviously care about animals, but it is in my firm belief that when you have certain species that are taking resources away from others that need to be listed, it does not really accurately serve out the purpose of what the endangered species act was supposed to do. so the legislation introduced by my colleagues right least speaks to disapprove of the fish and wildlife services rules regarding the status of lesser prey chickens and northern long-eared bats under the esa. and by removing species from that list that have recovered and focusing resources on species that are still at risk, we can better prioritize our conservation efforts and allocate resources where they are needed the most. the fish and wildlife service and noaa's national marine fisheries service share the responsibility for administering the esa. ensuring that these agencies are properly listing and delisting species is something that is particularly important to me, especially being that i have many endangered species in my area to include the manatee and green sea turtle of which are struggling to recover accurately. my question would be for mr. gerton. when deciding the new rules like those of the lesser prey chicken and northern long-eared bat, what information does fish and wildlife services consider? thank you for your question, congresswoman. so we go through a very robust, scientifically driven process to make a determination. i do not want to bore you with all the details of it, but in general terms, we are either petitioned to look at the status of species based on constituent concerns or those raised by a court, or just based on our work with our state fishing game and tribal partners, we have noticed a difference in the status and trend of how a species is doing on the landscape. and so there is a first gate that you go through, so to speak, which is called a 90-day finding, where we are either presented with information that causes us to say there is positive information here and we are going to initiate a more formal rule-making process called a 12-month finding, or we will say that there is not adequate information here, so we will decline looking at the status of that species. and then we go through a very robust formula, a five-factor analysis looking at threats, including disease and predation, looking at adequacy of regulatory mechanisms, looking at habitat or threatens to destruction, and we rely on science largely from the states, the tribes, our colleagues, usgs, noaa, and others, and work that through decision matrix. a lot of it is a species status assessment, but it is scientifically driven congresswoman. so being that the recovery rates in species are ever changing how often does the fish and wildlife service review those rules for the species? so we are required every five years to do a status assessment of listed species and do a determination of where they stand, where the trend lines are showing us that their population is going. you are familiar with our work in the manatee right now, are they currently listed as a threatened species, or some advocates of access to it, but in uplifting too, in danger, we do not think that is the case now, even as we are dealing with those mortality events the last couple of winners. there is still 8,000 animals up there in that population, and they are able to withstand, and we have been very aggressive working with our partner agencies in remediation to get them through this tough patch. just real quick, because obviously that is something that we love our manatees in florida. do not let that mistake you, but just out of curiosity, why are you guys not upgrading that? because we just, i mean, we have a huge issue with red tide. i believe it is in part because of the message sewage that we get dumped into our ocean, and it contributes to the nutrients for the red tide, but our manatees are dying, and then we obviously have the boating accident, so why are they not being up listed? we look at the totality of information in congresswoman and our scientific judgment, we believe in the case of the manatee, particularly in florida, the status of threatened is adequate, provides almost all the safeguards that are needed, particularly given the robust partnership we have with florida power and light, state game commission, private land owners, and others. we have weeks in place with the outdoor recreation industry, all kinds of proactive measures. we are focused very much on what is going on in the indian river lagoon. that is where the unusual mortality event has been taking place, through a combination of rescue, rehab, supplemental feeding, and other techniques we have been able to stabilize that, and we got a lucky break this past year with winter weather on our side, but at this point, the services view is that the threatened status gives them the safeguards they need to ensure survival going forward. okay, and then i guess my last question for you would be, so our beaches have sea turtles, and we are one of the few spots in the world for the nesting grounds for these sea turtles, and one of the issues that we have is beach re-nourishment, and so we have the army corps of engineers that is not wanting to do beach re-nourishment, but obviously we have an endangered species there, so just in your opinion, do you believe that other organizations should be held accountable if they are knowingly preventing habitat protection, for example, our sea turtles? carls, i am not as familiar with the specifics on your case, your raise in there, but in very general terms, we work very collaboratively with the corps of engineers, these beach re-nourishment and replenishment projects are very complex. we would be glad to follow up with you, or your leadership team here in dc, to get you a briefing, and talk some more about that issue, because it is gonna be a complicated one, but we are glad to follow up with you, and set up some briefings here in your district. this real quick, who loves sea turtles? like, everyone loves them, right? so i think the army corps of engineers should work with you guys, and give us our habitat for the sea turtles. thank you, i yield my time. thank you, congresswoman. excuse me, excuse me, ranking member, fulken... excuse me, ranking member, fulken... fulken...