sorry, i am a bit short up here. good afternoon north carolina. i love you too. thank you guys. first and foremost, a little bit about myself for those of you who might not know who i am. i represent the wonderful people of pinellas county in florida's 13th congressional district. thank you. i also happen to be a united states air force veteran. i am his spanic. thank you. i am the first elected mexican-american to congress from the state of florida. the reason i tell you that though is according to the left, i check all the right blocks as except for one. that is like many of you. i am republican, but i am also conservative. but my story was not automatically into politics. in fact, i started out as a counter-tracking activist. i realized back in 2016, this really smart fellow by the name of donald trump was talking about something called border security and human trafficking. i agreed with him. yet when i said stuff about it, i received rhetoric from the left saying that i was white wash because i am half white, that i was a coconut, which is kind of ironic because i would joke back and say, well, no, i am a vanilla wafer and they did not like that. they can be racist, but if you joke back and make fun of them, they do not like that. then eventually in 2018, after i decided to not pursue medical school and take the political route, i ran into someone named kamala harris at the airport. my thoughts exactly. you see, i ran into kamala, of course, looking a little bit younger. kamala harris goes, well, do you want a selfie? and i said, no, kamala, i do not want a selfie. i have questions. you are running for president. i want to know what you are going to do about the border. thank you. real quick, because the left media likes to say, women do not support president trump and border security. how many women are here? please make noise. when i pressed kamala harris on the trafficking and rape of hispanic women and children, do you know what she did? she ran away. she ran away from the very questions that she is trying to campaign on currently as the solution to the problem that she created. she has done nothing. nothing for the innocent children lost under her supervision. 320,000 children have gone missing under her watch as border star. do not tell me you care about women and do not tell me you care about children because the fact is, is your dear's position as a woman minority and did nothing for us. i am a new mom and let me tell you as a new mother, no mother, whatever elected or not accept any of that. it is simply unacceptable. so now i have a question for every single one of you because from what i am hearing and from what i am hearing back there, guys, we are going to win so big. they are going to try to say that we rigged it. too big to rig is the name of the game. so from your lips to god's ears, north carolina, i have some questions for you. answer carefully, okay? will kamala harris be our next president? that was kind of weak. i do not think they could hear you in florida. will kamala harris be our next president? that is a bit better. will you guys be getting out to vote early? and let us chant this a few more times three times because we know trump said fight, fight, fight. who is going to be our next president? again, again. that is what i like to do. we need to bring this energy to florida. god bless every single one of you. i am here to give you guys hope. we are going to win. we are going to take back the house. we will take back the senate and we are taking back the white house. thank you.