the chair now recognizes miss luna. thank you guys for being here today. the bacteria outbreak and abbott's nutrition manufacturing facility in michigan is, in my opinion, just one of the many examples of the fda's lack of oversight regarding not just food standards, but i would also argue to sometimes in the pharmaceutical industries. the fda, as i am sure you all know, is intended to be the people's last line of defense. and although abbott was responsible for not reporting this earlier, i do believe that there was a combination of issues that led to, unfortunately, this happening. in fact, the fda's failure to adequately inspect abbott and listening to whistleblowers concerned contributed greatly to the formula shortage as a whole. and it took months for the fda to respond. had they responded, infants could have been saved. and i would like to note that it stated in the briefing that we got that 40% of infants infected will die if they have this bacteria, which means that of the 15 members who sit down in this committee of 40% were infected as infants, six of these members would not be here. so that is incredibly alarming. but it is clear that the fda is not doing their job and does not prioritize food safety as well. as many of the food additives, including hazardous food dies, like red 40, yellow number five, and number six are abandoned other countries around the world because of their harmful side effects yet permissible in the united states. the fda continued to launch an ad campaign lecturing parents about how alternative infant food formulas may lack nutrients vital to an infant's growth, yet has also at the same time approved drugs such as mythopristone for pregnant women that starves an unbored child of nutrients until they die. or what about the 1960s debacle with fda approving thalidomide and actually covering up some of the investigations according to an article by the new york times in an effort to keep this knowingly dangerous pharmaceutical on the market to the american people. so needless to say, as a member of congress, i do not really trust the fda. it seems though that the fda is for sale and will work with corporations to keep harmful products on the market knowing the outcomes. we need to remove food additives that are detrimental to our health, pharmaceuticals, and improve our inspections for foods as across the board. consumers buying food should be able to buy food and be able to trust it, not chemicals and additives that are toxic and known to carry risks. i guess my main concern because i have heard your opening statement and i appreciate your solutions to this. but why is it that abbott is still an fda-approved manufacturing facility for infant formula if they have knowingly covered this up? because that is what it seems like. the facility did voluntarily shut down. abbott has several manufacturing facilities. this occurred at the sturgis facility. the facility did voluntarily shut down and through the consent decree, there were a series of process that they had to undergo to give us confidence that they could produce safe product and they met those requirements for the consent decree and so now they are back in operation. has the fda made any changes? because i anticipate that due to covid, you guys are not able to get into some of these facilities. but to only go to three of the, i believe it was 23 facilities, it seems like god forbid something like this happens in the future that needs to be changed. frankly, if i was one of these parents, i would be completely ticked off at the fda for not listening to those whistleblower complaints earlier. i think that is a fair criticism. thank you. the fda developed an internal policy that it would monitor covid transmission around the country and if it was above a certain level, they would not do inspections even though they were deemed critical. if you look at other segments of the food safety profession, usda inspectors continue to show up. they were considered critical infrastructure. if you look at many of the states, state inspectors considered to show up. so i think that is a fair conversation to have. have not forbid there is a future pandemic. if our fda inspectors critical infrastructure, critical personnel and critical structure, and is there a role for them to play? but also to something outside of covid, because it is very possible, i mean, i hate to say it, but i do not trust china and biochemicals a very real threat in this country. so obviously something outside of covid would be important to keep you guys able to do your jobs. we also need to fully explore other means to gather intelligence, whether it is remote access of data and records. ok, thank you very much. chairman, chairwoman, i yield my time.