NEWS: Sanders, 25 Senators Call on Starbucks CEO to Stop Union-Busting and Negotiate a Fair Contract for Workers
November 10, 2025
WASHINGTON, Nov. 10 — After 92% of unionized Starbucks workers voted to authorize a nationwide strike this week, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Ranking Member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, led a letter to Starbucks CEO Brian Niccol demanding that the multibillion-dollar corporation stop its illegal union-busting campaign and negotiate a fair contract with its workers. The Starbucks Workers United union represents more than 12,000 workers at about 550 stores nationwide.
Sanders was joined on the letter by Sens. Angela Alsobrooks (D-Md.), Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.), Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), John Hickenlooper (D-Colo.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Alex Padilla (D-Calif.), Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), Elissa Slotkin (D-Mich.), Tina Smith (D-Minn.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.) and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.).
“We are writing to express concern regarding Starbucks’ failure to reach a fair first contract with its baristas. Additionally, we have heard of a troubling return to union busting, which has impeded the ability of Starbucks workers—many of whom are our constituents—to exercise their statutory and constitutional right to organize,”
Sanders and the senators wrote.
Since workers began organizing, Starbucks has waged an aggressive and illegal anti-union campaign. The company has been found guilty of more than 500 labor law violations and has been accused of 125 new allegations of union-busting since January of this year.
Last year, Starbucks and its workers made progress toward a fair contract, reaching 33 tentative agreements on key issues such as health and safety and protections against unfair firing and discipline. But after Niccol took over as CEO in September 2024, the company abruptly halted negotiations and walked away from the bargaining table.
“We are troubled by reports that since you started your role as CEO in September 2024, the company has failed to put forward a serious economic proposal, backtracking on the previously agreed-upon path forward,”
Sanders continued.
“As you well know Starbucks is not a poor company. Last year Starbucks made over $3.6 billion in profit and paid out nearly $5 billion in stock buybacks and dividends. In fact, in the first 3 quarters of the year, Starbucks made $1.7 billion in profit and paid out over $2 billion in dividends. Last year, you made $95 million in compensation for the four months you worked in 2024, roughly 6,666 times more than what your average worker was paid for the entire year.”
While Starbucks executives and wealthy shareholders reap enormous profits, the company continues to deny its workers a living wage, predictable scheduling and decent benefits — demands that would cost less than one day of Starbucks’ average sales. Instead, Starbucks has refused to settle the more than 700 union-busting charges against it and is implementing a restructuring plan to close stores and lay off hundreds of workers.
“It is clear that Starbucks has the money to reach a fair agreement with its workers,”
Sanders concluded.
“Starbucks must reverse course from its current posture, resolve its existing labor disputes, and bargain a fair contract in good faith with these employees.”
Read the letter
here
.
Prev
Previous
NEWS: Sanders: Mr. President, the Ball is in Your Court
Next
ADVISORY: Sanders and ‘Godfather of AI’ to Discuss the Future of Artificial Intelligence and Impact on Humanity
Next