NEWS: Sanders Statement: The Trump-MBS Love Fest – Oligarchy and Authoritarianism Go Global
November 19, 2025
WASHINGTON, Nov. 19 – With President Trump hosting Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia in Washington, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) today released the following statement: Yesterday, Trump hosted Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (MBS) of Saudi Arabia in his gold-leafed office, calling him his “very good friend.” This extravagant welcome for the Saudi dictator, head of the wealthiest
Read More »
NEWS: Sanders to Democratic Senators: Now is the Time to Address America’s Health Care Crisis
November 18, 2025
In a Dear Colleague letter, Sanders calls on Democrats to unify behind six broadly supported reforms WASHINGTON, Nov. 18 – Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Ranking Member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, sent a letter to his Democratic colleagues urging them to come together around common sense health care policies to make health care more affordable
Read More »
MEDIA ADVISORY: Sanders, Welch, Balint to Hold Telephone Town Hall as Vermonters Face Health Insurance Premium Hikes
November 17, 2025
BURLINGTON, Vt., Nov. 17 – Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Sen. Peter Welch (D-Vt.) and Rep. Becca Balint (D-Vt.) will hold a statewide telephone town hall on Wednesday, November 19, at 6 p.m. Following a painful government shutdown that failed to protect Vermonters from massive increases in their health insurance costs, the delegation will hear directly from Vermonters about the challenges
Read More »
ADVISORY: Sanders and ‘Godfather of AI’ to Discuss the Future of Artificial Intelligence and Impact on Humanity
November 14, 2025
WASHINGTON, Nov. 14 — Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and the “Godfather of AI”, Nobel laureate Dr. Geoffrey Hinton, will discuss the transformative effects that artificial intelligence (AI) and robotics will have on our country, the world economy and the working class during an event on Tuesday, November 18, at 6 p.m. at Georgetown University.  In October, Sanders released a sweeping
Read More »
NEWS: Sanders, 25 Senators Call on Starbucks CEO to Stop Union-Busting and Negotiate a Fair Contract for Workers
November 10, 2025
WASHINGTON, Nov. 10 — After 92% of unionized Starbucks workers voted to authorize a nationwide strike this week, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Ranking Member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, led a letter to Starbucks CEO Brian Niccol demanding that the multibillion-dollar corporation stop its illegal union-busting campaign and negotiate a fair contract with its workers.
Read More »
Press Releases