Skip to content
Senator Baldwin Facebook
Senator Baldwin Bluesky
Senator Baldwin Twitter
Senator Baldwin Instagram
Senator Baldwin Youtube
GET E-NEWS UPDATES
News
Press Releases
Published:
10.31.2025
Baldwin Calls on Republicans to Help Avert Health Care Crisis Ahead of November 1 Affordable Care Act Open Enrollment
As Americans start shopping for insurance, Wisconsin families’ health care prices projected to increase by as much as $30,000 next year; 78% of Americans – including majorities of Republicans, Democrats, and Independents – support extending health care tax breaks
WASHINGTON, D.C.
– As Wisconsinites start shopping for health insurance on the Affordable Care Act (ACA) Marketplace tomorrow, November 1
st
, U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) called on Republicans to work with Democrats to reopen the government and stop 275,000 Wisconsinites from seeing their premiums double on average next year. Tomorrow, Wisconsinites who buy their insurance through the ACA, or HealthCare.gov, will start shopping for coverage, only to find their premiums are going up by as much as $30,000 per year because Republicans have failed to extend vital tax breaks that help Wisconsinites afford their insurance.
“Tomorrow, the rubber meets the road. Hundreds of thousands of Wisconsinites can log onto HealthCare.Gov and see just how much more they are being forced to pay for health care because my Republican colleagues and President Trump are refusing to lift a finger,”
said Senator Baldwin
. “The stories I am hearing from Wisconsinites are simply devastating: small business owners having to fire staff, parents figuring out what activity they can’t afford for their kids next year, and families simply not sure they can afford health care at all. These are the families I have been fighting for. The clock is up. Donald Trump and Republicans need to join me and act now to avert a health care crisis for the 22 million Americans who are about to experience some serious sticker shock tomorrow. House Republicans need to end their 42-day vacation, the President needs to join the conversation, and the Senate should be working over the weekend – not taking a long weekend like Republicans are making us – so we can avoid this crisis.”
Since the government shutdown on October 1
st
, Republicans and Donald Trump have refused to negotiate with Democrats to extend Enhanced Premium Tax Credits that help 22 million Americans afford their ACA coverage. 275,000 Wisconsinites benefit from the premium tax break, saving them an average of $585 per month. It is projected that the Republican cost increases will price four million Americans out of care entirely, including 30,000 Wisconsinites.
Recent polling shows that
78 percent of Americans and nearly 60 percent of Republicans support extending the tax credits.
Senator Baldwin has
traveled the state
making stops in
Weston
,
Green Bay
,
Milwaukee
, and
Mount Horeb
to highlight how the expiration of these tax credits will hurt working families, small businesses, and farmers. She’s also hosted roundtables with constituents while in D.C. working to reopen the government, including with Wisconsinites from
La Crosse
,
Eau Claire
, and
Milwaukee
, in addition to meeting with
Wisconsin farmers
who use the Affordable Care Act. On Monday, Senator Baldwin also
convened
Governor Tony Evers and Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI-04) and Mark Pocan (D-WI-02) to highlight just how much Wisconsinites’ premiums would rise without these tax credits. Today, she
hosted
two Wisconsin constituents virtually to talk about the start of open enrollment and the dire need to extend these tax credits for working families.
Senator Baldwin has voted seven times to reopen the government, reverse Republicans’ cuts to Medicaid, and extend the
Affordable Care Act enhanced premium tax credits
. Senator Baldwin and Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH) lead
legislation
to make these tax breaks permanent.
Full recordings of Senator Baldwin’s virtual roundtables with constituents who use the Affordable Care Act are available here:
La Crosse
,
Eau Claire
,
Milwaukee
,
Wisconsin farmers
, and
Open Enrollment Roundtable
.
###
Previous
Next
website-search