Skip to content
Senator Baldwin Facebook
Senator Baldwin Bluesky
Senator Baldwin Twitter
Senator Baldwin Instagram
Senator Baldwin Youtube
GET E-NEWS UPDATES
News
Press Releases
Published:
11.04.2025
WATCH: Baldwin Calls on Trump to Fully Fund FoodShare for Wisconsin Families
Baldwin’s floor speech comes as Trump continues to sow confusion and keep food from hungry families
WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a Senate
floor speech
today, U.S. Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) called on President Trump to
once again
use the resources at his disposal and fully fund Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits. Baldwin’s speech comes as two judges confirmed that Donald Trump was required to use emergency funds to fund SNAP, yet Trump continues to
sow confusion
and refuses to use available resources to ensure FoodShare recipients get their full benefits for November immediately.
“The President has the money for all sorts of things. Private planes for his staff, $20 billion to bail out Argentina, and of course, his glamorous ballroom. But, he is choosing not to fund SNAP and keep 700,000 Wisconsinites fed. He would rather hold families hostage than simply work with Democrats to lower health care costs and reopen the government,”
said Senator Baldwin.
Senator Baldwin has
repeatedly
called
on the Trump Administration to continue to fund SNAP and ensure that the approximately 42 million Americans who receive SNAP see their benefits continue uninterrupted. In Wisconsin alone, approximately 700,000 people rely on SNAP for food assistance benefits. Of those receiving assistance, 270,000 are children and 108,000 are senior citizens. Earlier this year, every Wisconsin Republican in Congress voted for the
largest cut
to the SNAP program in history.
Last week, Senator Baldwin and her colleagues introduced the Keep SNAP and WIC Funded Act of 2025 to direct the USDA to immediately release billions of dollars in available funds to ensure SNAP and WIC benefits continue uninterrupted for the remainder of this fiscal year. The legislation also requires the federal government to reimburse states for covering SNAP benefits during a shutdown.
Watch Senator Baldwin’s floor speech
here
.
###
Previous
Next
website-search