Skip to content
Senator Baldwin Facebook
Senator Baldwin Bluesky
Senator Baldwin Twitter
Senator Baldwin Instagram
Senator Baldwin Youtube
GET E-NEWS UPDATES
News
Press Releases
Published:
11.14.2025
ICYMI: Baldwin Keeps Up Pressure to Extend Health Care Tax Breaks with Three Stops in Wisconsin
Baldwin visits Madison, Milwaukee, & Green Bay to talk with Wisconsinites whose health care costs will skyrocket if tax breaks expire
WISCONSIN
– Today, Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI) wrapped up another week on the road with stops in
Milwaukee
,
Madison
, and
Green Bay
to highlight how the expiration of Affordable Care Act (ACA) tax credits will devastate Wisconsin families and small businesses. The 275,000 Wisconsinites who rely on enhanced premium tax credits to afford their ACA coverage will see their premiums double on average if Republicans allow them to expire next year.
275,000 Wisconsinites benefit from the Affordable Care Act’s enhanced premium tax credits, saving them an average of $585 per month. Unless Republicans work with Democrats to extend these tax breaks beyond January 1, 2026, four million Americans will not be able to afford their health care entirely, including 30,000 Wisconsinites. Recent polling shows that
78 percent
of Americans and nearly 60 percent of Republicans support extending the tax credits.
On Monday, Senator Baldwin forced
a Senate vote
to extend the Affordable Care Act’s (ACA) enhanced premium tax credits for one year. Senate Republicans voted to stop Baldwin’s effort to add her amendment that would have extended the Affordable Care Act’s enhanced premium tax credits to the government funding bill before the Senate. Senator Baldwin also leads
legislation
to make these tax breaks permanent.
In recent weeks, Senator Baldwin has
traveled the state
making stops in
Weston
,
Green Bay
,
Milwaukee
, and
Mount Horeb
to highlight how the expiration of these tax credits will hurt working families, small businesses, and farmers. She’s also hosted roundtables with constituents while in D.C. working to reopen the government, including with Wisconsinites from
La Crosse
,
Eau Claire
, and
Milwaukee
, in addition to meeting with
Wisconsin farmers
who use the Affordable Care Act. She also
convened
Governor Tony Evers and Representatives Gwen Moore (D-WI-04) and Mark Pocan (D-WI-02) to highlight just how much Wisconsinites’ premiums would rise without these tax credits.
###
Previous
Next
website-search