washington— u.s. senator john boozman (r-ar) applauded senate passage of legislation that reopens the federal government while fully funding several departments and agencies for fiscal year 2026 including the u.s. departments of agriculture (usda) and veterans affairs (va). boozman, who serves as chairman of the appropriations subcommittee on military construction, veterans affairs, and related agencies (milcon-va), also welcomed advancement of the spending measure he authored that delivers important investments for veterans’ medical care and benefits as well as defense infrastructure projects. “taking basic government services hostage through a shutdown is costly and tremendously unfair to the american people. this record-breaking stalemate had real consequences for arkansas families and communities, so i am thankful reason finally prevailed and we are restoring vital funding and benefits instead of prolonging such senseless, harmful chaos. “i am also proud our bipartisan bill to fund the va and military construction projects was part of the solution to this impasse. providing funding that supports america’s veterans, our servicemembers currently serving and sacrificing, as well as their loved ones should always be a top priority. congress must build on this progress and work together to advance the other full-year funding bills that will serve all americans,” boozman said . the boozman-authored milcon-va legislation supports the arkansas national guard and secures $93 million in funding for red river army depot projects. the package also fully funds usda for fy26 and includes the extension of farm programs and authorities not covered in the one big beautiful bill act that were set to expire at the end of the year, in addition to an extension of federal grain inspection activities. background the federal government shutdown that began on october 1 became the longest full or partial shutdown in u.s. history. boozman repeatedly expressed his disappointment with the partisan political tactics that caused it and voted 15 times to advance a clean, straightforward, nonpartisan bill to fund the federal government. his offices remained opened and supplied arkansans with information and resources about the shutdown’s impact on federal programs and services. the continuing resolution passed by the senate will reopen the government and extend funding through january 30, 2026, in addition to providing back pay to all federal workers. milcon-va bill highlights military construction : $19.7 billion that funds approximately 300 projects at military bases and installations around the world to enhance resiliency, warfighter readiness and quality of life. within this amount, the bill provides $1.9 billion to improve and maintain housing for servicemembers and their families as well as invests $1.3 billion in military hospitals, schools, child development centers, fitness centers, dining facilities and mess halls. department of veterans affairs (va) : $133.2 billion for the va. va medical care : $115.1 billion for va medical care, including $59.2 billion for direct care at va facilities, $34 billion for care from community providers, $12.1 billion for the management and administration of the va health care system, and $9.9 billion for the operation, maintenance and upkeep of veterans health administration facilities. this funding includes: $18.9 billion for mental health; $6.4 billion for telehealth services; $3.5 billion for veterans homelessness programs; $3.5 billion for the caregivers program; $945 million for medical and prosthetic research; $1.4 billion for health care specifically for women veterans; $709.6 million for opioid misuse prevention and treatment; and $342.5 million for rural health initiatives. toxic exposures fund (tef) : $52.6 billion to implement the pact act and provide health care for veterans exposed to environmental hazards during their service, including burn pits. va construction : $1.4 billion to support construction of new va hospitals and veterans cemeteries. va electronic health records : $3.4 billion for the veterans electronic health record to support va’s plan to resume new site deployments at 13 locations in 2026. va mandatory funding : $263.7 billion for mandatory veterans benefits, including veteran disability compensation programs, education benefits, and vocational rehabilitation and employment training. advanced appropriations : $122.3 billion in fy 2027 advance discretionary funding for veterans health care and $271.4 billion in fy 2027 advance mandatory funding for veterans benefits. related agencies : $357.8 million total, funding: american battle monuments commission : $110 million to support 26 permanent american military cemeteries and 32 federal memorials, monuments and markers that honor the service and sacrifice of american military personnel who died overseas. u.s. court of appeals for veterans claims : $49 million to support the review and arbitration of disability eligibility decisions by the board of veterans appeals. arlington national cemetery : $118.8 million to support the cemetery’s 7,000 burial services, 3,000 public wreath laying ceremonies, and three million visitors. armed forces retirement home : $80 million to support operations at retirement communities that provide affordable resident services and care to retired and former enlisted servicemembers and their spouses. guantanamo bay : retains provisions preventing the realignment or closure of the naval station and preventing construction of a new facility in the u.s. to house guantanamo detainees. chinese it ban : includes a new provision prohibiting the va from purchasing technology equipment manufactured by any chinese companies included on lists maintained by the departments of defense, treasury, commerce or homeland security. va national instant criminal background check system (nics) reporting : retains the provision prohibiting the va from referring a veteran who has an appointed fiduciary to the nics system without the order or finding of a judge. agriculture/usda highlights u.s. grain standards act : extension of current law for federal grain inspection activities through january 30, 2026. farm bill : extensions for farm programs and authorities not included in the one big beautiful bill act that expire at the end of the year through september 30, 2026.