good afternoon everybody. if you could begin to take your seats, we would love to get the program rolling. we have some rich and informative content for you today. and we want to make the time valuable for you as well as for the presenters who have graciously donated some of their time to us. i am scott paul. i am the president of the alliance for american manufacturing. we are a partnership between the united steelworkers union and some leading domestic manufacturers. our mission is to strengthen american manufacturing jobs through smart public policies. that just so happens to be the mission of manufacturing jobs for america, which is the project launched by senator coons, senator baldwin, and their colleagues to develop policy responses to the array of challenges that face manufacturers today. now, looking at the audience today, this reminds me of the demand for tickets to see hamilton on broadway. and i am sure a lot of you would like a ticket i would as well. there are either the after market is making a lot of money on it. but the reason why i bring that up is because in addition to being kind of a broadway hip-hop star now, hamilton was the father of american manufacturing policy. 225 years ago in philadelphia, he was writing america's first manufacturing policy. and it was founded on the needs at the time, the needs to develop a manufacturing base. he viewed it as an economic strategy when our comparative advantage was in agriculture. he said, we got to make things as well. viewed it as a national security imperative, as a magnet to attract new people to our land. and in various iterations, it has been a policy that both democrats and republicans have followed for a very long time. think of abraham lincoln and the land grant institutions and the building of the transcontinental railroad or some of fdr's programs, or indeed some of dwight eisenhower's programs with the national highway system, some of our defense research programs that both democrats and republicans have embraced. so it is an honor to be joined by seven or perhaps eight of our current hamiltonians, the new generation of pragmatic economic policy leaders, those who believe firmly that manufacturing is an irreplaceable part of our economy. it needs to be at the core of economic development. and then when manufacturing is strong in our country, other areas thrive as well. and it makes a lot of problems instead of more difficult to solve and makes them easier to solve. so we are going to hear some of these ideas and thoughts on policy today, first by a distinguished and diverse array of senators, then by the head of the president's national economic council, jeff zients, who is the director of the nec. and last but not least from a policy of experts on manufacturing in the field itself and also public opinion of what voters are thinking about manufacturing. and the first senator i would like to invite forward is the co-chair of manufacturing jobs for america. and that is senator chris coons. he was elected to the senate in 2010. and i am honored to say that aam joined him for a town hall meeting prior to his election to talk about some of these issues. so i know it is been on his mind for some period of time. prior to that, he was the new castle county president and the new castle county executive. in the senate, mr. coons sits on the foreign relations judiciary appropriations, small business, and ethics committees, some of which are meeting now. so we are very happy to have some of his time. and he is been leading the campaign in the senate to refocus washington's attention on manufacturing jobs. several of his initiatives, including those to make the research and development tax credit a permanent fixture of our tax code, have in fact been signed into law. and so with that, and also to mention his background, which was prior to public service, was with a company that manufactured wl gore and associates. please give a warm welcome to senator chris coons. thank you. thank you. thank you. well, thank you, scott. thank you for your leadership and for facilitating this today and for everything that the alliance for american manufacturing is doing to help continue to accelerate the renaissance in manufacturing that is going on across our great country today. and i would like to thank timmy baldwin for joining me as the co-leader of manufacturing jobs for america. i am thrilled at the broad range of senators who will be joining us. we have several committees meeting right now, including an appropriations meeting that senator baldwin and i and senator merkley and senator murphy, as well as many others are participating in. so please be understanding as some of the senators are going to have to come and go and our schedule may be a little different than we had first laid out. and i am excited that jeff zients had of the national economic council will be joining us shortly to discuss progress that this administration has made and the challenges that remain. and i am grateful to folks in my office to brian and to peter and to eric and many others who have worked so hard to pull us together today and to support the innovative agenda that manufacturing jobs from america has put forward. as you heard in scott's gracious introduction, i am from a manufacturing family. and i spent eight years working for w. algonne associates and advanced materials manufacturer in delaware. and i got a very up close and personal exposure in that work to what kind of a difference manufacturing jobs make for american families. that manufacturing is not just something that is been a bull work of our country going back to alexander hamilton, but is a part of our future as well. and we have hard work to do here in the senate and across the country to help persuade americans that we in public policy can make a lasting and meaningful difference in strengthening and accelerating the opportunities presented before us by manufacturing in this century. you know, virtually every day, i commute back and forth by amtrak from my hometown of wilmington. and on that ride, i go past the former site of the new york delaware chrysler plant. when i first ran for office in 2000, one of the things i love doing was going to the plant gates. and hearing from meeting the men and women of uaw 1183 as they did shift change, either going in or going out. this was a 60-year-old factory that employed 3,500 people, had some of the greatest performance metrics in the country, had great labor management relations, and was the bedrock of a whole series of communities around it that had been the center of the middle class for my community for two generations. well, today that plant is not just closed, it is gone. its site is leveled. there are a few small startup manufacturers on that site. there are some jobs that have come back to it, but it is to me a hunting reminder of the jobs lost over the last few decades. and as i think about the work that i want to do here today, that we want to do together here in the united states senate and across the country, it is to restore the opportunities that manufacturing did provide over generations. and i am convinced can provide again today. but we have to recognize where we are and where we are not. things have changed in manufacturing. the skills that we need, the investment in support and infrastructure that we need, the policy framework that we need. manufacturing is still an important part of my state. there is more than $25,000 in working and manufacturing today. and across the country, nearly 12 million americans are employed in stable, high-wage high-skill manufacturing jobs, but around the world we face a more competitive environment than ever. so if we are going to compete in a new knowledge-driven economy in a new, truly globalized economy, we have to make sure that recent high school graduates, that engineering graduates from the high school and college and university level, that apprenticeships are re-skilled, refocused, and retooled to meet the demands and needs of modern manufacturing. i want to just say a few encouraging things and then hand this over to senator baldwin since i know i have got at least two other colleagues who are waiting for me to conclude my already overly lengthy remarks. first is that manufacturing is something that ken and should be bipartisan. it can lift all boats in the united states. it can be an opportunity avenue in the united states. and we should be able to find pathways towards bipartisan bills. in manufacturing jobs for america, we have a group of 22 senators who have crafted more than a dozen bills in this congress, some of which were bipartisan, but not all. some of which are still seeking for republicans willing to work across the aisle to make progress. last year, we made some real progress. the workforce innovation and opportunity act included five different policy ideas that came out of mja in the last congress. there is a bill that senator peters and i have done to strengthen the manufacturing extension partnership that just came out of a markup on the commerce committee. there is great work that senator booker and others are doing on apprenticeship through his leap act and others. as was mentioned in the introduction, the r&d tax credit has been made permanent and accessible to startups for the first time. the defend trade secrets act, a bipartisan bill, has been signed into law. and the manufacturing universities bill, which was co-sponsored by senator baldwin and gillibrand frank and franklin, iot and graham, has passed through the nda in the senate and is on its way to making a difference in how curricula are designed and developed in partnership with manufacturers at universities around the country. these are just a few examples. and before i go on any further, let me just say that what i hope we are doing is working together to deal with the problems facing manufacturers today and working past the dysfunction here in congress. whether it is making sure we break the gridlock that is keeping xm from being more functional than it could be. whether it is addressing business tax reform issues, whether it is investing in infrastructure, whether it is changing the approach of markets from short-termism to a focus on the long-term, the kind of investment that can lift up and sustain manufacturing. there is a lot we can be doing together. i want to thank all of you for taking time out of your day, for the associations and the offices that you represent. and i hope you will listen to these members who are passionate about manufacturing. from very different states, from the heartland of ohio to the northwest in wisconsin, all the way out to the state of hawaii, there are senators in our caucus and an mja who are passionate about manufacturing and who are convinced that if we listen and if we work together, there is no limit to the difference we can make. let me introduce one of those senators. my friend, the co-chair of manufacturing jobs from america, senator tammy baldwin, someone from her time in the house and her time in local government has been a unrelenting advocate for manufacturing in the united states. someone who deserves no greater introduction than this. my friend, tammy baldwin. applause. oh, goodness. thank you, chris. thank you all for being here. and i hail from wisconsin as you heard. and in wisconsin, we make things. and we do it well. we make paper, engines, tools. some of you do not know that we make ships. we are on the great lakes, so we can do that. and yes, we also make cheese and brats and beer. and you know about that because we do do it really well. we actually possess one of the largest manufacturing sectors in the nation, supporting a large share of wisconsin's workforce and exporting goods all over america and all over the world. and manufacturing has long been the backbone of our made in wisconsin economy. in my state and across our country, manufacturing is increasingly an engine of economic growth, innovation and a source of good jobs with high wages and solid benefits. and that is why i strongly believe that middle class families, small businesses and manufacturers that are working so hard to move our economy forward deserve to have both parties in washington working together to grow our manufacturing economy and create jobs. i am so proud to join my colleague, senator coons, on our manufacturing jobs for america initiative. and working together, we are trying to do our part to get washington to focus on manufacturing jobs. just like alexander hamilton did, as scott shared with us in his introductory remarks, manufacturing jobs deserve our attention because more than any other type of jobs, manufacturing jobs create more jobs. manufacturing plants open up and you can bet that restaurants and stores will follow. you can see manufacturing plants anchor entire communities. our effort aims to build bipartisan support for legislation that will modernize america's manufacturing sector, help american manufacturers grow and create jobs, and assist american workers in getting the skills to succeed in the next generation of manufacturing jobs. but to prosper, manufacturing requires large investments. big machines, complicated machines, land and skilled workers. and it really often takes many years for these investments to pay off. now, these days, big balance sheets attract activist hedge funds who want to boost stock prices by sometimes closing plants and firing workers and buying back stock markets and buying back stock. the executives in wall street gets paid. workers, communities and taxpayers lose out. and there is a growing chorus who believe that short-termism is holding america back from reaching its full potential to create stronger economic growth for our country. i am proud to help lead the charge in the senate to focus in on this phenomenon. put simply short-termism, also known as quarterly capitalism, is the focus on only short-term time horizons by both managers and financial markets. it results in corporate funds being used for payouts to shareholders in the form of either dividends or buybacks, rather than investments in workers, r&d, infrastructure, and long-term success. short-termism and its effects demand a response. government policy sets the rules that guide our economy and society, and it is why i have led efforts in the senate to encourage the sec to tighten its rules governing buybacks, and increase transparency surrounding executive compensation. i have introduced legislation to make it more difficult for activists to take over public companies and run their short-term playbook. that legislation that i have introduced is named after a wisconsin community, a paper mill town called broca, that nearly went bankrupt. we need to rewrite the rules of our economy and level the playing field in favor of working americans, small businesses, and our manufacturing economy. people who make things. companies need to be encouraged and rewarded when they make long-term investments in new products, in innovative processes, in research and development, and workers' wages and training. i soon hope to build upon this legislative beginning by introducing legislation to expand and strengthen the r&d tax credit and by increasing the activities that qualify for that tax credit. for far too long, small and medium manufacturers on main street have been unable to take full advantage of this opportunity and this economic incentive. if we want an economy that is built to last, we have to continue to make things, we have to do more of it. we have to make and build things in america once again. we must pay attention to the threats, and we must bolster the opportunities. we ignore this at our peril. i am so thrilled to join you today. am i supposed to hand off to the next speaker or is scott coming back? in the order of appearance, i am happy to introduce my friend, my former colleague in the house of representatives, and my fellow member of the class of 2012, maisie herono from the great state of hawaii. thank you. oh, my. i think i need a little step stool to stand on, because i do not think you are seeing only the top of the head is a very powerful look for a senator. but okay, i am glad to be here, and we are so democratic in the manufacturing caucus that we are not going by seniority, and that is why i get to go before shera brown and some of the other people who are here. thank you very much for being here. i know that when we talk about manufacturing in our country, you do not necessarily associate the state of hawaii with manufacturing because we do not have huge assembly lines. we are not general motors. but, you know, like every state, we have small businesses that make stuff in hawaii. and if some of you came to the hawaii on the hill a couple of weeks ago, you know that we make stuff like clothing. we make a lot of chocolate covered macadamia, not candies. and we make ice creams. i mean, every state has small businesses that make things. clearly, our country needs to create many more good-paying jobs in the manufacturing sector. now, the state of hawaii you may or may not know is one of the leaders in terms of relying on clean energy and moving toward alternatives and renewables energy. we are going from the most oil-dependent state in the entire country where some 90% plus of all of our electricity and our transportation fuel comes from imported oil to a state where by 2045, we are moving to our goal is 100% renewables and alternatives in electricity. that is the most ambitious goal of any state in the country. and this is why one of the areas where we can really show up and strengthen manufacturing in our country is in clean energy technology. why should it be that we should rely on places like china to provide the components to our windmills, for example, or any other elements or components of a clean energy environment? and that goes for things like smart grids. i have joined with my colleagues in introducing legislation that would promote all of those kinds of clean energy technology. and i think that is one area where our country can be once again in the forefront. another thing, when we talk about good-paying jobs, i often hear from businesses large and small that we really need to have a workforce that is trained to take these jobs. and especially in the science technology engineering and math areas, stem. we know that in this country, probably a million jobs, that is probably a lowest make. a million jobs will go begging if we do not have more people with stem backgrounds and education. one huge group that we are missing the bow-down is the minorities and women. we know that minorities and women drop out of the stem areas and all at all levels of the pipeline for a variety of reasons. there is not a lot of encouragement for women and minorities to get into stem. once they are in stem, they face things like very few role models, harassment, all kinds of barriers to their staying in the stem area. so we do have some legislation. senator peters just did a bill that incorporates some of the provisions in my minorities and women, stem enhancement bills that would enable us to pay attention to the fact that we would be ignoring a huge base of potential employees if we ignore minorities and women in this area. so, in spite of the fact that maybe hawaii is not seen as a huge manufacturing area, i think that we are all in this together. that is why you are all here. when the rest of the country does well, creates good-paying jobs, that eners to the benefit of the entire country. the way i look at it, we are all in this together. and that is why i am happy to co-sponsor so many of the legislation that my brethren in ohio and iowa and michigan and all these other places that we normally think of as being big manufacturing sites. we are in this together. mahala noelah. thank you. thank you, macy. i am shera brown from cleveland, home of the nba champion cleveland cavaliers. i throw that in for those of you. thank you. and some are here from toledo. so thank you. you are in the kennedy caucus room. this room is where both jack kennedy and bobby kennedy announced their candidates for president, which you would not really do now because it is federal property. it is also the room where the titanic hearings were held, where the mccarthy hearings were held, where the affordable care act was written, and where the watergate hearings were held. so this is a historic room. it was renamed the kennedy caucus after the death of edward kennedy and one of my goals in the senate. this is not a major goal, but it is to no longer name this building after the segregationist richard russell, but it should be called the kennedy building, but that is my opinion. so i am not actively seeking to change that at this point, but anyway. scott, well, thank you for the work you just got, macy and gary peters, who will speak in a moment. and to chris coons and tammy baldwin, thank you for doing this. a wiser person than i once said that wealth is created by either growing it or making it or mining it. in my state of ohio, we do all three. we do a lot of natural gas drilling now. we are a coal state, less so than we used to be. we are a farm state. we have one out of seven jobs, and my state is connected to food and agriculture. and we are the third leading manufacturing state in the country, only california, three times our population in texas, twice our population actually produce more products than we do. from general elect, from making engines, to making cars, to making potato chips, to solar, manufacturing, we are number two or three in food processing overall. we make kind of a little bit of everything in ohio. but considering, and you heard senator coons and you heard senator baldwin and senator ono talk about, in some ways, the threats to manufacturing now. there is a plant in cleveland called arsler middle. it is the first time ever that a one person hour created one ton of steel, first time ever. that is good news because it means they are productive. it is bad news in terms of it takes fewer workers to make steel. and so even it is partly obviously foreign competition. and generally badly designed globalization regimen that we pursue through, i think, you will conceive trade policy and tax policy sometimes. but it is also the incredible technology, technological advances in productivity, american workers that have made this even more of a challenge. so that means we need to be more creative. roy blond, a senator from missouri. roy and i were secretaries of state of our respective states in the 1980s. and roy said to somebody once, i have known sherrod brown for 30 years, we have agreed on exactly five things. and then he said, but all five of those are federal law. and that is how you legislate here. you find people that agree with you on an issue. senator blond and i agreed on an issue that we wrote a bill called the revitalizing american manufacturing innovation. it sets up manufacturing hubs around, jeff and i see it sets up manufacturing hubs around the country. first one in youngstown, ohio, i would thank jeff science and the administration for their vision on these manufacturing hubs. they are sort of critical masses of expertise and technology. and we will see coming out of those all kinds of innovation in very specific areas. and we know along the ohio turnpike from toledo to akron, all kinds of technology grew out of that corridor related to autos, one of the major glass manufacturing centers in the country, toledo, the major rubber manufacturing in the country in akron, major steel all along that corridor. so you see when you do these manufacturing hubs, they, that critical mass will help to move the country forward and help to revitalize american manufacturing. a ron bloom who used to work at the white house was the manufacturing czar. he was in my office one day and he said he said that nobody, everybody in america wants there to be more manufacturing, but nobody wants their kid to do it. and that is unfortunately far too true for people that dress like this and people who have white collar jobs and people that have education. i think why would i want to do manufacturing? well, because manufacturing is very different, the technology, the cleanliness, the productivity, the sense of accomplishment, all that comes in manufacturing. as a result of that, we decided after hearing ron say that a few years ago, we set up a number of manufacturing camps, summer camps around the state. we have done this for three or four years. we have done a couple, i think we have probably done 10 or 12 of these now, where we aim them at fourth and fifth and sixth graders. we get local community manufacturers to be part of it. we show them, technology and show them plants. and the other day i was just talking to somebody named roger sustard north, he is still high about it. and he was just kind of beside himself because he is about my age and he has seen this decline in manufacturing. he is seen people that have educations think that they do not really want to do this for a living and they do not want their kids to. and he went to one of these, he helped us with one of these camps and he saw two grandfathers talking about their granddaughters, two men about his age, talking about these fourth and fifth grade girls, their granddaughters. and how excited they were about the technology they saw. and you know, this is a, i would think those grandfathers would not have thought that about their own daughters, but they would have wanted their daughters to do something else. but for their granddaughters, they shared in the excitement and the new world, if you will, that their daughters, that their granddaughters saw. now, if we are going to, if we are going to do this right, it also means that it is important as these strategies are whether it is hubs, whether it is manufacturing camps, whether it is tax issues, whatever it is. our manufacturing policy is a bit like a treadmill. for every step forward we take, we keep getting pulled backwards. i think by bad trade deals and bad tax policy that makes it that much more of a challenge to do what we need to do. we need to say no to any trade deal that force our manufacturers to compete with countries that manipulate their currency or to compete with countries that sort of specialize in outsourcing jobs because of wages and week. in week, in week environmental and labor laws, we need to use our existing laws to fight back against dumped and subsidized imports. i thank the administration for the work that they have done on trade enforcement when countries dump steel in our country. what that means is dumping steel means subsidizing it below cost and then selling the united states and we cannot compete when countries do that. but this year, the good news, i am glad that in this presidential year, both presidential candidates are talking about trade. one of them is mostly just talking and while donald trump is talking, his high priced accountants are caching checks from the products that he outsources around the world. donald trump suits and ties are made in mexico and china. this suit i am wearing is made by union labor six miles from my house in a company called hart schaffner and marx in cleveland, ohio. donald trump outsources his picture frames in india. i know of a company in columbus, ohio that could make those picture frames. the outsources is furniture to turkey. i know a company in archbald, ohio and another in a norwalk, ohio that could do that. when he asks why he makes the suits in china, donald trump says he has no choice because they do not even make this stuff in the united states of america. well, he is wrong about that. you might not make your products in ohio and you might not make your products in america, mr. trump, but hardworking men and women. in my state, let alone in hawaii and michigan and all over our country can make those products. we need a trade policy. we need a better trade policy. in a country, we need a better manufacturing policy and strategy that complements each other. it is how we grow our manufacturing base. it is how we stamp made in america on products that we make in america and sell in america and sell all over the world. my pleasure to introduce a relatively new member of the senate. this is in a second year gary peters from michigan. his state and mine look a whole lot alike in terms of agriculture and manufacturing. he is a great partner on all these issues. thank you. well, thank you, sherrod. and you are right about our state's very, very similar issues that we deal with. we all take great pride in manufacturing and make stuff grow stuff as what we do, which is why it is so wonderful to be here with all of you, to be part of this effort to join my colleague, maisie, who we did with her language was put into the innovation act today that came out of committee. we will now go to the senate floor, but thank you for all the work that you have done on stem, particularly bringing women and underrepresented minorities into that area. it is been incredible. i have great deal of pride representing santa michigan, and particularly the manufacturing parts. and i guess i would associate all of my comments with all of my colleagues that have spoken before me that i agree with everything that they have said and the importance of manufacturing. in fact, i am a believer, as i know they are, that you simply cannot be a great country if you do not actually make something. you have got to make something. you have got to have manufacturing in order to do that. when you think about it as far as good paying jobs and dealing with inequality and all of the other challenges we are facing in a country, we know that manufacturing jobs are jobs that pay good wages. they are paying living wages. you can build a career. you can do things like have quality health care. you can save for retirement, retire with dignity. do all the things that you should be able to do in america, but it is manufacturing that allows us to drive that. we basically have a middle class because of manufacturing. we know that certainly in michigan. we like to think we were in many ways the birthplace of the american middle class with the auto industry and the assembly lines and the uaws and other fights for wages and benefits, but it grew out of manufacturing. you cannot have a strong economy. you have got to have people who actually have money in their pocket who can buy products. that is why you need to have good middle class manufacturing jobs in an economy. i would argue as well you cannot have a vibrant democracy unless you have a strong environment middle class. it just does not happen. when you think about manufacturing, this is about not only a strong economy, but it is the very basis of our democratic system of government here in this country. when you think about an industry, who else can say that except folks who are in manufacturing? in michigan, we make a lot of things. we are known primarily for autos, but we do a lot more. one thing that i have learned in my travels is if you know how to make something, you can make anything. you can make medical instruments. you can do incredible work in aerospace. you can do things in rockets, even. in fact, i was at a manufacturer not too long ago. in fact, a former autosupplier who was making auto parts, but during a very rough auto time we were in in 2008, they had a diversified their product line. so they said, well, let us get into the aerospace industry. they have been in aerospace. they have been making parts for the f-35 jet fighter. when i was there, they were making components for the sls rocket. the sls rocket is the new rocket. the nasa is building. that will take us back to the moon. eventually, it will be the rocket ship that takes us to mars. we are expected to take that trip back to the moon in the early 2020s and in 2030 on our way to mars. so as i talked to audiences, i say in michigan, we build cars and we also build rocket ships to mars. we can do that all, but it is the power of manufacturing. but if you look at where the auto industry has come in terms of high technology, we are on the really on the verge of probably the most disruptive technology in the history of the industry since henry ford's car first came off the assembly line. and that is with autonomous vehicles, vehicle to vehicle technology, and eventually self-driving automobiles, which will transform our society in ways that we are just now beginning to imagine. i have had the opportunity to ride in some of these cars. i do not know if anybody has been in the google car, which i did in california not long ago on california freeway, which is always kind of a freaky thing to do on a freeway, but having a car drive itself even more so. i was on constitution avenue. we had a hearing at the commerce committee where he brought some of the self-driving vehicles and connected cars from detroit, so our committee members could ride at them. we rode up constitution avenue here in a car and drove by itself up constitution. it stopped at the red light, the light turned green and drove itself on the green line, just on the light started up again down the highway. i understand the engineers have it, so it stops at yellow lights too. i am not sure why that is the case, but that is apparently what it is designed to do as well. they think of everything as engineers, but it basically did that and soon will be at a point, especially a lot of our younger folks here who love uber, i am sure. we are going to be at a part, and this is not very far away. you are going to be able to call up on your phone, the uber. it is going to show up, but there will not be a driver in the car, and you will get in the car, you will put in your address, and it is going to take you to where you want to go, which is pretty wild to think about, but it is only a few years away. in fact, in our hearing, the university of michigan is a major leader, and this they believe will have these autonomous cars, probably a mass amount of them in less than 10 years, but you will see that. but as i said, i was on the road with a self-driving car here now, so we are on the verge of that. what i am working on in michigan is to make sure that we stay the center of that technology in the united states, michigan, preferably, but in the united states and in the midwest. we cannot see this to any of our competitors, and trust me, they are working very aggressively to take that manufacturing in asia and in europe. i am working, and jeff sites knows, i will make another pitch to him while he is here, it says great. we are working to have a center of mobility in michigan, where we can test all of these vehicles. the days are different now, each used to be every manufacturer would have their own test facility, and there would be proprietary information. but when all the cars are connected, and it is all autonomous, you have got to be at the same place, because a ford has to talk to toyota, and a toyota's got to talk to a gm, and a nissan, they have all got to be testing together. we want to make sure that is in the united states, preferably again in michigan, did i say that before? say it again, preferably in michigan, which is already the center of automotive technology. and as that center is there, and the technology is there, we know that manufacturing wants to be near those test facilities. it wants to be near engineering. we will continue to hold that manufacturing, because we build the best cars anywhere in the world, american workers are the best workers, american engineers are the best. we are going to make sure that we keep it in our country. manufacturing is too important, and i believe that you cannot have a manufacturing, a healthy manufacturing industry, unless you have a healthy, vibrant auto industry as well, because so much of what auto goes into auto is all the parts that go into it, really are the lifeblood for the entire manufacturing industry. so i look forward to continuing to work with you, continuing to work on those caucus. i mentioned we did the innovation act today, which is also to make sure we are investing in basic research, innovation, science. the one thing we know the federal government can do better than private industry, and that is invest in basic scientific research, not applied research, but basic science, basic chemistry, basic, all of those things that are necessary in order to move an economy forward. that will hopefully pass, and that will continue to spur the manufacturing sector. so thank you for being here. thank you for believing in this important industry. and as i said at the beginning of my comments, this is not just about a strong economy, this is about a strong democracy. this is about the american way of life. that is what manufacturing is all about. and that is why i am so pleased that the next speaker also shares that passion, and it is also from a state that is critical for manufacturing, and that is al franken from minnesota. well, i know, i am listening to gary, somebody's going to be the first person to die in a self-driving car accident. it am not going to be me. i am going to wait until they got the kinks worked out on that one. thank you all for being here and participating in this important discussion. i want to thank senator coons and baldwin. i have been working on the workforce part of this for quite a while, and i tell you, i got into the senate. my first race was a little close, and i got in a little late, and i got in july of 2009. it was sort of the height of the great recession. i went to alexandria in douglas county, minnesota, which is in sort of central western, northe, kind of area of minnesota. douglas county's unemployment rate was about two and a half points lower than the rest of the state. i kind of wondered why, and they had all these manufacturers there, sort of the silicon valley of food packaging machines. how do you put potato chips in a bag and not break them? well, they figured that out. i wanted to figure out exactly what they were doing, and what they were doing was they had this community and technical college there, alexandria technical and community college. i started talking to them, and they had an industrial arts camp for the kids in high school in douglas county and in alexandria. during the summers, kids could pick up these skills. when the state was getting close to, i think it was about, minnesota was not as bad as some places, but we were up to about 8% unemployment. they had about 5% unemployment from douglas county. it was because they had this technical and community college rated number 8 in the country that year that was training a skilled workforce for great middle class jobs. i said, okay, this works. i started going to every community and technical college i could. i would see that at hennepin tech, students were in a program called empower. i think it was a 16 week program in sort of in machine tooling and cutting, and in the cnc machines and programming and 90 some percent of them were getting jobs. i had a round table there and i met with some of the manufacturers. i met this guy, eric ajax, from ej ajax and sun. i think he was the grandson of the sun, or something. maybe he was the son of the sun. but this is the company that had been there a while. he had employed a lot of graduates of this credential program. i visited him and it turns out there was a guy there who went to his floor. there was a guy there who was a veteran. when he got out, he took the empower course, got hired. eric had hired him and said, you are good. i am going to send you back to get your associates degree while you are working here, earn while you learn. so he did that. and boy, i tell you kids, students, people, not just kids, but people who go to college these days are working while we are learning, as you know, anyway, pay for tuition. but this guy's tuition was paid for by his employer. so he is learning, you are earning, and he gets a degree. he gets his associates degree. and he is good at that. he is good. he gets moved up. now he is got his bachelor's degree that eric paid for. and he is the head of quality control at eja jackson sun. we can do this in a big way. we have a skills gap in minnesota. minnesota now has one of the lowest unemployment rates in the country, about 2.4% or something. and we have a real skills gap. and there is no reason we should not be training people for these high skill jobs in manufacturing. because we have a lot of advantages in manufacturing now, if we have the skilled workforce, we have the lowest energy cost because of natural gas in this country. that is why i am not so keen on exporting it as lng, but that is another story we do not need to get into here. but we can take advantage of this. and i think we have been, and you have seen some factories that we have had overseas are coming back. but we can only take advantage of it if we have the skilled workforce. so i am on the labor, you know, health education labor and pensions committee. when we re-did the workforce investment act, we renamed it the workforce innovation and opportunity act. that was because harkin was a chairman and he wanted to spell iowa, i think. so it is we owe, but. and so i got their funds that are eligible for what i want to do, which is this is what i want to do. and i got a thing called the community college recruiter fund act. and if i do say so myself, it is brilliant. and here's what it is. it would create money, billions of dollars, because we need this. and it would provide grants to community and technical colleges and different business sectors could be manufacturing, could be it, could be health care, where the community and technical colleges train people for high skill jobs. and sometimes when i go around, i know what they need, they need extra money, sometimes for machine, for sophisticated machines, sometimes for faculty, sometimes for more space. they just need more space to train more people for jobs that exist. and these grants would be you would apply for the grant and these grants would be awarded based on the following things. how many jobs would be created? what are the value of these jobs? to the people who get them, to the community, to the state? how much skin in the game does the manufacturer, you know, health care employer or the it employer have in the community college or the state? let us get the biggest return for the buck here. but let us make sure that we are training people for the kind of skills that we are not only going to need that we need now, but we certainly are going to need in the future. and the idea, i mean if we are talking about self-driving cars, we are talking about a lot of stuff that we are not anticipating. and that skills and that training will continue throughout your life. so this is very doable. and i want to again thank chris and tammy and everybody who is involved in this project to make sure that manufacturing in this country is restored to, or is comes close to being restored to the place that it is. that we make stuff here, we make great stuff here, and we give people the skills to make sure that they can have good, solid middle class lives. and maybe they do not have to accumulate tens and tens of thousands of dollars in college debt. and they can get that associate's degree, that bachelor's degree, that postgraduate degree, getting paid for by their employer. while everyone wins. that is why we are here. we are here because we know that we can do things so that everybody wins. we do not have to make choices where someone wins and someone loses. we are here except maybe people that are exploiting labor overseas. maybe they lose. but we are here so that everybody in america wins. we are here. i give you chris coons from the great state of the pronounce delaware. thank you senator franken. give him another round of applause please. from my first month serving alongside senator franken i was impressed with his passion for really tackling the challenges in making the opportunities of manufacturing available to a wide range of americans. i am thrilled to introduce our keynote speaker today and i will be brief in introduction. you have heard from six different senators at great length about all the different ideas that we have got. but we cannot make progress here in the congress without a real passionate partner in the white house. president obama and the director of his national economic council jeff zines have been terrific partners. it is my honor to introduce someone who said a very successful career in the private sector. someone who helped lead the office of management budget. someone who helped get health care dot gov back on track. and someone who has the experience of leading successful enterprises in both the private and public sectors. our keynote speaker today jeff zines. so i always enjoy the academy awards. raise your hand if you watch the academy awards. i mean it is such a great production the stars the speeches. this reminds me of it a little bit. i came in a few minutes ago so i got to hear senator brown, peters, coons, franken. and i feel a little bit like that moment where i think people go and get a snack or go to the restroom which is when they accountant the senior accountant from pwc comes on stage to certify the results. so please do not leave the room. please hang with me. i will promise to be at least informative like a pwc partner. so it is an honor to be here and i really appreciate the opportunity. and what i will do is i will spend a few minutes on the economy. the importance of manufacturing and how together we can make sure that we strengthen us manufacturing in the global economy. the economy has made tremendous progress across the last seven and a half years. 14.5 million private sector and i emphasize private sector jobs over 75 straight months. that is the longest streak of job creation ever. the unemployment rate is now below 5% as we heard from senator franken. it is even lower in some states. it is the fastest two-year drop in unemployment in the last 30 years. wages, which has been a problem for decades, predates the great recession. we have had some progress recently, increasing it about 3% this year but clearly a lot more work to be done on wages. manufacturing has been right in the center of the recovery. it is helped to drive the recovery. there have been over 800,000 new manufacturing jobs and importantly has just discussed these are good jobs, well-paying jobs on average manufacturing jobs pay 20% more. i think it is important to remember how far manufacturing has come. from 2000 until 2008, there was no 12 month period of time when manufacturing the sector actually added jobs. so no 12 month period of time for that whole eight year stretch. when the president took office, the auto industry was on the brink of collapse. many argued that us manufacturing could not compete in the global economy and that we should focus elsewhere, that we should not focus on manufacturing. the president along with leaders on the hill and many are most in this room completely rejected that view and instead focus on creating stronger, more vibrant manufacturing here in the us. if you step back and think about the conversation we are having today, we have fundamentally changed the conversation. there is now broad recognition that manufacturing is critical to economic strength and i want to be clear on how critical it is. 70% of research and development in the us is in manufacturing. 90% of the patents that are issued in the us are manufactured products and the majority of us exports are manufactured goods. so i want to take a minute to highlight some of the important steps we have taken together over the last several years to strengthen the competitiveness of american manufacturing. starting with making sure as senator frank and just talked about making sure that we had the most skilled workforce to support manufacturing jobs not only today but in the future. we have invested a billion dollars to develop new community college programs around the country that train workers for advanced manufacturing jobs. we have awarded the largest federal investment ever in apprenticeships. apprenticeships are a proven model. people do apprenticeships. they get good jobs, well-paying jobs at the end. we have got new apprenticeship programs focused on manufacturing including partnerships with the united auto workers, united steel workers. we have seen good results between the public and private sector together we have created 75,000 additional apprenticeships across the last year. that is the largest increase in apprenticeships in nearly a decade. through the focus at the community level, the manufacturing community's partnership we have encouraged communities to compete for federal funds more than a billion dollars in economic development funds to fund things like workforce development. we want to work together on new ideas, additional ideas, senator cunes proposal for manufacturing universities come to mind. to create more opportunities for well-paying jobs as senator brown talked about, we have come together to fund manufacturing hubs that help accelerate ideas from the laboratory bench to the manufacturing floor. the hubs are public private partnerships. they bring together companies, universities, nonprofits and local governments to invest in emerging technologies like 3d printing and bendable electronics. we announced just last week the ninth hub. it will focus on advanced sensors. it will be in los angeles to make energy use more efficient for manufacturers. and we are on track to reach the president's goal of 15 institutes by the end of his term, so by january of this year. we have already seen success from the hubs, youngstown as president as senator brown mentioned, the first hub. it is focused on 3d printing. it is helped attract hundreds of millions of dollars in new manufacturing investment. in rochester, new york, the home to our photonics hub, that is located in an old kodak facility and it is attracted 1.4 billion dollars of investments in 800 manufacturing jobs to the rochester area. the hubs are in their early stages, but it is clear that the seed capital that is been provided to the hubs is already showing very promising returns. to make sure our workers and our businesses are competing on level playing field globally, we have worked together on trade enforcement. the administration has a very strong trade enforcement record. we have brought 22 actions at the wto, 12 of those against china, and importantly, we have won every case that is been decided so far. commerce has over 300 anti-dumping counter-vailing duty cases, including about 150 unforeseen steel. your leadership here, passing the customs bill and other enforcement legislation is helping us to build on this strong track record of enforcement. the legislation is having a real impact. it is enabled us to increase our enforcement staffing at commerce to help prevent foreign competitors from gaming the adcvd process. you have given customs and border patrol better capabilities to enforce and prevent evasion at the border. from enhancing our workforce to pioneering manufacturing hubs to strengthening enforcement, our work together is keeping our manufacturing sector competitive and dynamic. i want to be clear that there are headwinds here. weakness of broad has created headwinds for manufacturers at home. the u.s. cannot be the only bright spot in the global economy. we need europe, japan, and other countries to stimulate their own domestic growth. we need china to move from an export-driven, instruction-driven economy to a consumption-based economy. we need china to continue to reform its economy. at the same time, there is more we can do here at home starting with infrastructure. we have got a trillion dollar deficit. it is not hard or more than a trillion dollar. it is not hard to see it each and every day in our own commutes. our bridges, our ports, our roads, our airports, and rail. at one point was a source of competitive advantage for our businesses and manufacturers. increasingly, it is of vulnerability. so we need to invest in infrastructure. our business tax system is broken. we have one of the highest statutory rates in the world, but the actual rates that companies pay very tremendously. the system is broken. we need companies to make business decisions based on business prospects, not on tax strategies. so we have got to fix our business tax system. so now we have these opportunities in infrastructure, investment, and business tax reform. they are both important for our long-term global competitiveness. but there are two things that we believe congress can get done this year to increase manufacturing and boost global trade. i will start with something that i know not everyone agrees on, and that is the president's belief that it is critical to get the trans-pacific partnership. past tpp covers nearly 40% of the global economy, many of the fastest growing markets. and it opens these markets by eliminating all tariffs on manufactured goods. so they are wiped away. all toll tpp eliminates 18,000 tariffs. taros and essence are taxes. so it reduces or eliminates 18,000 taxes on made in america goods. but it is not just exports and economic growth. that is at stake. tpp is about america's influence in the world. trade deepens partnerships with allies and helps ensure stability and security. china is not waiting around. they are not loitering. they are moving forward with their own regional trade deal in asia. as the president has said, we cannot let countries like china write the rules of the global economy. we should write those rules. we also have an immediate opportunity to expand exports by getting the export import bank back up to full strength. after a prolonged, and i would argue unnecessary battle or process last year to get the bank finally reauthorized, the senate banking committee can fix this problem by giving mark mcwaters a confirmation hearing and a vote. mcwaters is a republican recommended by senator mcconnell. and his nomination has been sitting for more than six months in the committee with no progress, no committee hearing even scheduled. this is clearly unacceptable. we are losing hundreds of millions, if not billions of dollars a month of exports. and we simply cannot accept that doing nothing, that action of doing nothing while american businesses in american workers suffer. so from investing in infrastructure to fixing our business, tax system, to passing tpp and getting the xm bank back up and running, there is lots of opportunities to increase our competitiveness and grow manufacturing. now i want to close on why i am so confident about the future of our economy and manufacturing. i would not trade our competitive position in the world with anyone else's. we are number one in innovation. we have been that way. we continue to be that way. number one in the world with 15 of the top 25 research universities here in the us. 60% of global venture capital is invested here in the us. and then we have this intangible, this culture of entrepreneur activity. it does not, does not exist anywhere else. we have the most productive workforce in the world. 30% more productive than germany. two to three times more productive than china and south korea. energy. a decade or two ago we would have talked about energy as competitive vulnerability. we are now the number one producer of oil and natural gas in the world. and importantly we have made real progress on clean energy since 2008 solar production is up 30 fold. so this abundant low cost energy. that is a real advantage for our domestic manufacturers is we have tens of billions of dollars in comparative advantage versus our global competitors. so the bottom line is we have the best position in the world and that is why global business leaders have ranked the us the number one place to invest now four years in a row. and why more than half of ceos who have manufacturing facilities in china are looking to bring them back to the us. it is critical that we continue to build on this foundation is a very competitive global marketplace. and all of us to need to make sure that we make our voices heard loud and clear on how important manufacturing is for our economy and for our global leadership. so we look forward to working with you to keep america the greatest place to invest in the greatest place to start a business. we have got the most desired products. we have got the best workers. we have got the most advanced manufacturing and the most innovative businesses in the world. let us do everything we can together to keep it that way. thank you. thank you. director zainst, thanks. thank you. and i think you got the timing of the oscars wrong because here you are a rock star among the among the policy crowd. and apropos the oscars were going to try to keep this on schedule. we appreciated the diversity of the presentations from the senators and their leadership on the issues that they presented today. we have the opportunity now to hear from four distinguished experts from various arrays of the manufacturing world from within it from the research side and including a pollster who has studied the public policy side extensively over the last six years. i am going to first introduce mike kaufman. mike joins us from cincinnati, ohio today as senator brown pointed out one of the leading manufacturing states in the country. mike is the general manager for composite and ceramics manufacturing for general electric aviation division and is doing some really fascinating amazing things. please give a warm welcome to mike kaufman. all right. so i hope i can live up to that billing. so i will give you a perspective not only from a manufacturer, but also personally it is twofold from a manufacturing is is critically important to the country as well as the ge. ge makes things of significance. we manufacture things. we make wind turbines. we make solar system solar energy systems. we make aircraft engines. we make wings for airplanes. we make land based power turbines. we are involved in oil and gas exploration as well as extraction. so all of that is manufactured somehow. so it is critically important to us also and i would say on a personal note i mean i am a i grew up a product of a small blue collar town and in western ohio which which thrived based on the manufacturing in the industry. right. i was able to become who i am today and what we have been able to achieve largely based on that. so i get to see that firsthand you know what manufacturing means to an economy local economy in a great vibrant middle class. so with that i do want to thank senator coons for inviting me and so i am going to highlight a facility in newark delaware in the senator's state really is a microcosm of exactly a lot of the things we are talking about. i talked about some of the things ge's doing and then i am going to finish with our view on policy so with that i would go ahead and draw your attention to the slides we have a facility in newark delaware that is grown threefold in since 2011 we have invested more than a hundred million dollars in equipment and facility and infrastructure there and on track to install another thirty million dollar equipment so what are we doing there. quite simply i would tell you we are inventing the future of flight there we are working on revolutionary material systems that are one third the weight of metal they survived temperatures almost a thousand degrees hotter than what metal can can withstand. it allows us to run the engines hotter which means the engine is not only more fuel efficient which saves fuel it also allows it to burn cleaner. these material systems are going in the next generation of propulsion technology in the advancement of that industrialization is happening in newark delaware why do we go to a newark delaware it is the same way we same reason we go any place else we go there because we have great support from the local community they have great universities there to provide stem talent they have we have great partnerships to provide. hourly talent production level talent as well as a state partnership there so a microcosm of great success that we have had so with that i want to talk about you know the significance of ge as a whole in the us. ge is one of the nation's largest employers 125,000 employees in the us supporting tens of thousands of suppliers and somebody said it earlier i think the multipliers five the one for every manufacturing job you have in the us. you have a five fold effect with the with the suppliers and the support infrastructure 22,000 of those employees are degreeed engineers since 2009 ge's announced the creation of 19,000 new us jobs nationwide over 200 plants in the united states. oh thank you well there you go. 200 plants and more than 15 that were built in the last five years more than 10,000 us veterans have been employed at ge one in 14 ge employees is a us veteran. so that is the overall ge coming back into aviation the division i work for headquartered in cincinnati ohio. we call it the eight for eight plan we have built eight plants in the united states in the last eight years i have been personally involved in three of those. why very similar to newark and the investment we are making we are investing in technology the us manufacturing can be competitive. we have got great people we hear this time and time again we go to places where we have great work forces that can be productive they are knowledgeable in the localities continue to support us some of those investments and technologies. obviously we say we are a big iron company we make big things but we are also investing significantly in what we hear term the internet of things right we say big iron meets big data in really that is the merger of our knowledge of the equipment and the technology and using the data science to help our customers operate their equipment more efficiently composites that is one of the divisions on risk of the future. the division's on responsible for that is carbon fiber resin things composites are are making their way into more and more things that are manufactured now why they are lighter they are more durable and you can do a number of things with them in that same vein ceramic matrix composites which is the newark delaware facility is using ceramics to replace metals in systems in the engines. why that is significant we have been developing and investing in this technology for almost 20 years we have invested many hundreds of millions of dollars to develop the science in it is now ready for commercial application and we will talk about this later we are not going to manufacture that outside of the united states at any point right we have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in that know how in that knowledge and taking that outside of the united states risks our our risks our intellectual property protection. additive manufacturing not just in ge but it is all over the place now right what can you do you know the printing machines whether it is 3d printing that we are we have production rate machines that are manufacturing fuel nozzles for the current for the latest and engines that we have now why that is significant it allows engineers to design things that physically cannot be manufactured any other way it allows you to push the boundaries of what machines can do. and then finally from a government support around robust long term federal civil aeronautics research you know the continued partnership whether that is through military or other vehicles through nasa that we continue to partner to advance the technology i would tell you cmcs what we were talking about started with joint funding through the united states. the us government. and in fact our new high volume production facility is a title three facility in huntsville alabama which is a partnership between the us government and general electric. so let me move on and i will wrap up with four things policy wise that i think about that are critically you know important to us many of these are not going to be new. i think the issue is finding ways to get past the rhetoric and get down to what is actually meaningful productive legislation and we heard it a couple times it is finding the ways to win win win or win together and in put aside some of the partisanism that is just that is rampant right now. so first and one thing that i think we is probably easiest to agree on is is anything that has to do with education and the and advancing the skills of our workforce and that is stem obviously from a diversity standpoint we heard senator from hawaii talk earlier about how do we get more diversity in our stem education in frankly not just diversity how do we get more people wanting to be involved in stem. next down from that is also the community colleges the two years to the associate degrees is critically important and i would tell you where we see the biggest gap in in our skills base you might find it interesting that the majority of the production of employees in our factories have at least the equivalent of a two year degree and these are the hourly hourly employees that are coming in and building a jet engine are there running an additive machine. i mean go on or the days and frankly those are the jobs that are very hard to compete or lower skilled jobs it is very hard to compete in the us versus some of these lower cost economies fortunately the biggest percentage of the manufacturing is not low skilled manufacturing certainly all the jobs that we have in the united states are not low skilled manufacturing but we do have to have a workforce that is ready and available for that so policy that supports the advancement of stem policy the board supports the advancement of our skill level of our production associates is critical. secondly and you heard you heard talk about this you know from a tax standpoint you know today's tax code does not reflect the realities of today's global market and the codes make it too difficult for us companies to invest back in the us tax reform must be an agenda item to get fixed. ge aviation is one of ge's core industrial businesses from digital industrial companies such as ge fixing our broken tax code is critical to the growth and allow ge to compete globally. current us tax system is anti competitive anti growth penalizes us companies if we want to invest in foreign earnings back in the us this has to be a priority to be fixed. next trade deals we talked about that so one of the things that i want you to think about i mean ge aviation 70% of the us products manufactured in the us are exported so blocking you know where there is only a finite number of aircraft and engines that will be sold in the united states so if we create barriers or barriers are created to the sale of that it caps the size of the market we can plan. ge's customers are located around the world ge's customers are more than 180 countries and in 2015 we won 67 billion dollars of infrastructure orders outside the us that is huge for the company but it is also huge for the employees in the us because it is the employees in the us that make the largest percentage of those products. so with that one one final thing on the trade is you as you see with the tpp these agreements have to start to address cross border data right we talk about the internet of things having the ability to transport data without tariff or without burdens and regulations is a critical part of these trade deals tpp is the first ever trade agreement include provisions for digital trade these provisions would enhance companies ability to analyze data both local and local. so we can analyze data both locally and across the borders in order to improve safety efficiency and reliability products and if you are thinking well ge's going to take the data and we are going to send it over to india so somebody in india can analyze it and send it back to us that is not what this is about many times we have the analysis centers in the us but you may need to health monitor a gas turbine in saudi arabia and not having free export of that data is a very real issue. finally and probably most passionate for me is the xm bank that jeff just spoke about before i came up and honestly i mean it is mind numbing what this is turned into from the standpoint of the battle that is taken i remember being involved in the discussions on this early on and i thought well surely this is something reasonable minds and rational people will come together and see that this is a government entity that actually makes money. so i think it is a very important thing to do is to support its business and the growth and manufacturing and this will get resolved and somehow it became the poster child for corporate welfare and has been a brutally long fight to get through. i would like to tell you you heard some of the background on it and some of the specifics i just like to talk to you about what it specifically means and the effect it is having right now. i do not know what xm the import exit bank is for us it allows for many large exporters it allows you to tender offers on global business right it does not mean that the bank is giving general electric money it means that they are backing one of our customers orders and just so that everybody understands many of these requests for proposals or things to bid on require a government entity backing the us government backing is actually critically important part of the market. so it is a very critically important part feature to many of our customers in not having that substantially disadvantages particular infrastructure projects and i tell you so the world is not standing still they recognize this is not been passed and the world of horse of vacuum so there is a need for this type of vehicle so what is what is happening around the world and literally happening right now other government entities in the world france canada great britain are using their similar banks to woo our customers or our competitors to woo our customers i will give you a very real example of something that is happening right now. the similar bank government bank in in great britain is working with boeing boeing is one of the is a key beneficiary from a contract standpoint for that willing to fund in back the sale of seven eight seven aircraft which we have an engine on in our competitor rolls royce which lo and behold is a uk company has a competitive engine on they are willing to back boeing's product provided they sell it with a rolls royce engine on it same does not happen for ge right so these are very real things you talked about the or these deals that are stacking up many billions of dollars of deals are being left on the table because we simply cannot respond to the to the tenders so it is critical importance that that gets resolved we free up those those funds and again i would just tell you that money is not going to be a real deal that money is not coming to ge and in many cases not even spend it goes to back deals that are being done so with that i thank you for your time and i will introduce the next speaker. thank you. mike thank you appreciated the perspective that you were able to provide on ge's aviation business our next speaker is pete months pete is the president and ceo of the general aviation manufacturers association which is headquarters in headquartered in dc the association represents more than 85 airframe avionics engine and component manufacturers as well as those engaged in maintenance and we are going to talk about the columbia position we think i do not want to talk about that, but i want to take a group out of engineering car oops i want to call you cut it out and submit a transcript about the reliability assistance aimingnymi so i want to share the experience that that allows you to target the service and your part of the matire program that which i would like to say and i would like to do that then for the some amazing technologies that far out seated, those of my dad who flew rb 47s and f4s, i think you had a little more capabilities. excited to hear what you have to hear today. thanks, thank you. thank you, scott. the us is an aviation nation. back in 1903, we all know the wright brothers first flew. but when you look at our heritage in manufacturing, this is an aerospace nation. and you have heard a lot of good stories today about what manufacturing and how important it is to this country. but when you look at the data and you look at the studies that have been done, we really have a crisis coming to us in aerospace as far as having the workforce available to us to be able to continue this proud heritage that we have. deloitte did a study last year and they are saying by 2025, manufacturing in our country will have 3.4 million additional jobs available to us. but only 40% of those will be able to be filled with the labor that we project right now, the skills out there. so all of these comments that you have heard about being able to attract young people to a job where you do things, you create things, build with your mind, build with your hand, build with a machine, are vitally critical to our economy. and if we can do the right things to be able to change, the mindset of parents out there to let them realize that you can send a young person to a community college, get in the door of a manufacturing company and by and large, most of the manufacturers will pay for that individual's education to continue on to their bachelors and beyond. so there is a tremendous amount of capability out there. if you take just my section of the industry there, which is general aviation, which goes all the way from the boeing business jet down to a says in our text on aviation says in 172 in the supply chain, we contribute 1.1 million jobs to the economy and about 220 billion dollars annually. so it is nothing to sneeze at. and yet we are out there with a very aging workforce and we are very concerned about what is ahead because the technology that is going to happen out there is exciting. we have talked a little bit today about autonomous vehicles. you think about the challenge of having an autonomous vehicle on a freeway with a lot of unpredictable humans going back and forth making lane changes without signaling and everything. that is a challenge. now think about working that in three dimensions. it is actually an easier problem to solve when you have also the vertical dimension to be able to put in. so if you know where other vehicles are out there in space, autonomous vehicles flying in the airspace of the united states, which the airspace is built for aviation, general commercial military aviation right now, is something that is very doable and is going to happen in our lifetime. but we need the software engineers and we need people to work additive manufacturing. as mike was talking about, which is 3d printing, to be able to build these vehicles and to be able to figure out the complex science of using artificial intelligence to be able to operate autonomously. so it is a great time to be able to get into manufacturing. and as we look at, and it was mentioned, mike mentioned what ge has for veteran employment. all of our companies are very serious about veteran employment when you look at the numbers out there. right now, there is 200 companies in the us, predominantly that number is made up of manufacturers that are looking to hire another 100,000 veterans by 2020. so in four years, another 100,000 to add to the 300,000 they have now. out of the military, come people, men and women, with tremendous skill set. and so we have been trying to tell our story around the country. and we realized as manufacturers in the aerospace sector, back after the downturn, that we have done a poor job of being able to tell our manufacturing story to key national level administrators or elected officials as well as folks in the local and state governments. so we started this set of rallies. we had senator brown came to an early one. we had no hire. senator coons was just at one in delaware last fall. and we just finished one in michigan. senator peters was our keynote speaker just two weeks ago. and in each one of these rallies, we have these elected officials be able to look out on a factory floor. and in aviation, i am very proud of the fact that they look at a very diverse workforce. our diversity is there not only in gender, but in ethnic diversity and they look out there and they are able to look in the eyes and tell people how important their jobs, these high paying, high tax revenue jobs are to the us economy. so it is vitally important that we do things to be able to fill that employment void that we have coming in front of us, but also do common sense things within the government. now for all of you that work here for the staffs of our elected officials up in both the house and the senate, one of those things is the faa reauthorization bill. now right now we are getting ready to do another extension, which is something that we are very disappointed about because in this chamber, on the senate side, a very strong, almost unanimous vote came from this chamber to say reauthorize the faa without this controversy over atc privatization. and we unfortunately have a chairman over on the house side that is not letting this move forward without this project of atc privatization, even though there is no way that this would ever pass in this congress or the next. and this is important to manufacturers because right now we need congress to push the bureaucracy to be able to allow us to bring product to market. and right now aviation, aside from maybe pharmaceuticals, is one of the most heavily regulated industries in the country. and in this faa reauthorization bill, on both the senate and the house versions, we have provisions in there to allow us to use our delegated authority to get product to market without having the bureaucracy get in the way. they have got an oversight function for new and novel technology that is needed. but when it is a company like ge that is been producing engines year after year and actually have to trick their software systems to be able to meet an faa test that is been antiquated by technology and is over 30 years old, the bureaucracy is in the way of employment. and the legislation on both the house of sunnicide that addresses manufacturing changes this. also, dresses consistency and regulatory interpretation because right now the faa is out there regulating an industry and each one of the little fiefdoms out there around the country have their own way of interpreting rules because they have no central repository to be able to go and look up what the actual rule is. and this legislation addresses that. so it is critically important for us to have you all that work here on the hill to be able to push the bureaucracy to help us innovate because when we are allowed to do that, when we are allowed to bring new product to market, great things happen. and there is a reason why companies like embryer, a great brazilian aviation aerospace manufacturer, has moved a production facility to florida. they are going to be producing more aircraft in the united states than they do in brazil. honda jet just got their certification. they are in north carolina. they do not produce anyplace else in the world except here in the united states. senator coons talked at the decile factory in delaware between the delaware facility and the facility in little rock. there are more aviation people employed in the us to finish off aircraft than there are back in france. this is an aviation nation. and we need the faa reauthorization bill to help us there. i am going to finish and i would be very remiss if not to pile on to what jeff talked about and what mike talked about with the export import bank. when you look at what was passed overwhelmingly by both chambers of congress last year, there were reforms in there. 25% of the lending under these reforms will go to small businesses. and it is very easy when you think about the xm bank to think about the boeing and ge's of the world. and you say, yeah, ok, those are big companies out there that want to be able to sell their product as mike described through the use of the lending that the xm bank allows us to do. but really, the holy grail in all of this is the supply chain that these two large companies and others have. because we in manufacturing were an ecosystem. when ge or boeing source, they source from a machine shop that may be doing things for aerospace, but they also may be doing things for farm equipment or in the automotive sector. and so we all rely on the same supply base. so by not reauthorizing the xm bank or allowing it to do deals over 10 million in aerospace, 10 million is very small dollar threshold. and it is not very useful for us. by not appointing another member to the board and having it stymied in the banking committee is hurting american competitiveness and it is hurting american jobs. and i cannot overemphasize the importance that we have to get another board member appointed, have it done soon so that we can get back in the aerospace sector in particular to be able to go and have these deals go through. so thank you very much for your time today. scott pai-ti. applause pete, thank you. it is my pleasure to introduce to you, dr. gary federer. he is the vice provost for research at carnegie mellon university. they are working on things right now that we would not have even imagined, maybe even in the future. that is how far ahead they are. but he is going to share some exciting developments and what some of the federal policy pieces are. and i would also say he was key in the first advanced manufacturing partnership, which was, i think, an excellent effort from this administration to focus on manufacturing as well as being part of the founding of america makes, which was the first manufacturing institute that director zaints point out. please give a warm welcome to dr. federer. applause thanks, scott. i really appreciate that introduction. it is a good afternoon to everyone. thank you for staying. i guess i am even more than the accountant from t.p.w.c. i am the engineer from pittsburgh. so i am thankful that you are staying for my discussion. i am the only university representative in this great program today. and so i feel that i am speaking for my colleagues in academia as well. and i want to thank scott. and i also want to thank senators koons and senator paul for the opportunity to help out when the rest of the sponsors for this opportunity. as scott was saying, the leadership from the obama administration is talking about the advanced manufacturing partnership that started in 2011. it really opened the dialogue for manufacturing in the us and has supercharged this conversation so that we can be where we are today, i think. and really the leadership from senators koons, baldwin, brown, murphy, and also the colleagues in the house, they have launched what we think is this boldest public private partnership in manufacturing innovation that we have seen in decades. the numbers are worth noting for their truly remarkable. in the last five years, we have had over a billion dollars in government funding committed to this manufacturing research and development. of course, we have had and matching funds from the partners in both universities and industry pushing this forward. this led, i like the word hubs that people have been using as these manufacturing innovation institutes have been launched since 2012. america makes third in late 2012. there is nine of them now. america makes. the others have engaged now hundreds of companies, companies like general electric. they are involved in this. they are creating a new frontier for collaborating between industry, universities, and government agencies, and also entrepreneurs and startups and small medium enterprises. this is true. it is really impacted with the university partnerships. if you look at carnegie mellon alone, our investments in this have engaged over 120 companies in the last five years with $100 million of manufacturing research. we have spun out 20 new manufacturing companies in these last few years as well. there is another five of these manufacturing innovation institutes coming down the pike very soon. some of them are in competition right now that have been announced. and we think those institutes are going to create another at least $800 million in combined federal private university investment over the next few years. complimenting those institutes, this is really, of course, important to the universities. the manufacturing university's proposal that is been championed with bipartisan support by senator coons and by senator baldwin would dramatically accelerate this progress that we have seen today by restocking the engine of basic r&d and of discovery for manufacturing. we think it is so central to ensuring the competitiveness for the us moving forward and downstream to, of course, the job creation that happens from that. so these combined actions have accomplished what we think is nothing less than the ignition of a passionate commitment to discovery that can perhaps be likened to the days of the space race. some of us are old enough to have lived through that. i was a young lad when, in nine years old, i think, when first lunar landing, for example. and now we look at faculty and students that are university and we see this. another university is passionate about starting to gain that passion for making, not just coding, right? or not just doing derivatives on wall street or whatever their passion was in the past. now, the maker culture is really taking heart. in addition, this advancement of materials discovery is becoming really at the forefront of the new manufacturing palette that we see. we think this is sparking an explosion in product development as well. this is going to completely also change the nature of the types of jobs we see. it is going to reinvent the very concept of the assembly line. i have got just a couple slides i wanted to show to kind of exemplify some of this revolution manufacturing. the first one is a spin-off from carnegie mellon, founded by jay whitaker at carnegie mellon, called acreion energy. this is a company that makes batteries using salt water. actually, on the web, you will see one place they say they make it out of dirt, cotton, carbon, and salt water. well, it is not quite dirt. it is actually a metallic glass for one of the electrodes. but it is completely green chemistry, making incredibly large, efficient batteries for the future of smart grid energy storage. but doing it in a way that is friendly for the environment, manufacturing in the us. in fact, this manufacturer just self-appitzberg in the old sony tv plant, which at the time, which is now closed, and the reason it is closed is the sony tv plant made these things called cathode ray tubes, which i know no one knows what a cathode ray tube is about this big. so there used to be tvs. we are not flat on the wall. this is replaced that. it is kind of the new thing. the next slide is a video. i do not know if you can hit it. but this is a heavy robotics, which is a new startup from carnegie mellon, run by how he chose that, just one of our leading roboticists. and he is making modular robotic systems that one can put together in a multitude of ways. and of course, while this could be a learning exercise, and you can stop here, i guess, and move on, this particular robot here is a learning exercise. but his methodologies are ones that we are going to see in the future for manufacturing of humans, people, putting together robots in different ways on the assembly line to create agile assembly work. can you just flick to the next slide? this is my last video i wanted to show. and this is something called augmented reality, which is another form of advanced manufacturing that people are very keen on. the idea is how to take computational technology, robotics technology, and use it to guide people to be more efficient, and actually have more fun with manufacturing job in ways where they are putting parts together and systems together in custom ways very efficiently. this is allowing the robot to do what it does well, which is well then boss the person around. and the person do what it does well, which is manipulate things. so this particular hum v-frame, for example, was put together by a student who got basic training and welding, along with his robot assistant, his augmented assembly assistant, in a tenth the time of two expert welders that have decades of experience. that bottom line, effectively, that is 90% cost savings in a process where one could now make what we call batch quantities of one, where you keep rolling out various varieties of these kinds of frames with that team. so this is the kind of new manufacturing jobs of the future that are coming back to the us and that we need to be certainly ready for. so you can see similar examples of this across the university labs in these innovation institutes. we see them in new creative development centers, like the one that general electric just set up a large r&d lab facility for additive manufacturing in the pittsburgh region that we are working with them on that. all these types of developments have been sparked by this national consensus on manufacturing that is been forged by the leadership here today. so my closing note is about training. i note that for the university researchers at carnegie mellon and across the country, we recognize there is great opportunities presented by the technologies that we see here. there is the power to use them in a very specific intentional way, though, not just hope that good things happen from this. there is an ability to do this with a clear vision of what is the future of work. so i will just give you some idea of the opportunity we have. if you was looking at a boston consulting group study a couple of weeks ago, where they cited that 53% of the large manufacturers that based in the us are strongly considering moving their advanced manufacturing operations back to the us from china, and 17% of them are already doing that. the trends are fueling this growth, where there is an estimate that more than 9 million jobs in stem skilled jobs for advanced manufacturing will be available in the next six years, and over 9 million jobs. that is a lot of jobs. the problem is we need to be ready to fill those jobs. even the jobs today, we cannot really fill. and the reason is we need more innovation in how we do this training. so the same core technological advances that we have seen, you see some of them here in computation, in simulation, in sensing, in machine learning, this idea of using computers to learn by themselves. some people call it artificial intelligence. they are driving, of course, these product and process advances, you see. they can also create unprecedented tools for training and engaging workers of all backgrounds, including helping with diversity, and making it fun and rewarding to learn. and that is something, of course, we are very interested in carnegie mellon and working on so a lot of my colleagues around the country. we have got to be committed to that revolution in learning and training as we are in the next breakthrough for materials and for automation. so to realize that type of potential, you need teachers, students, current workers to be partners and participants in the discovery and development process. it is gonna require to ensure that the small companies feel as welcome and engaged on our university campuses as the large multinational companies do. the fortune 500 companies. whereas great steps in that process, we are involved, a lot of people have been in these maker fairs, for example, in building maker culture down with at a grassroots level. in having open lab initiatives that connect small suppliers to advanced equipment. and to providing new certificate and apprenticeship models, it heard earlier some of the senators talking about various apprenticeship models. one of them was, for example, the first registered apprenticeship in making that was developed in collaboration with the pennsylvania afl cio, our workforce investment boards and carnegie mellon that became a great success. so in closing, at carnegie mellon, we understand that the driving force behind these new manufacturing policies, programs, investments is that recognition that we have to revolutionize the way we train the us workforce and meet the demands of the future economy. and we are ready to take on that mission and i believe that colleagues in higher education are as well. so with that, i thank you. thank you. thanks, scott. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. and that they believe jobs moving overseas is a significant threat to that most important element of our economy. these voters do favor an array of pro-manufacturing steps, including spending the credit to ships, buying american when taxpayers money is spent, and some others that we will talk about. just so everyone knows what we are looking at, as i said, we have a poll from ohio. i am from ohio too. we have a lot of buckeye here, which is great. unfortunately, there is some of them in the us mission as well, but i cannot help that. we did focus groups in columbus in january. we did a poll in february and march in ohio. also focus groups in wisconsin in january and february and march are poll there as well. so as i said, jobs, china, debt, terrorism, wealth gap at the top of these voters agenda. we asked people how concerned they were about a variety of problems. you may not be able to read this either, but at the very top, we asked people how concerned they were. they could have said it was one of the things that concerns the most that they were very concerned. some were concerned not to concern, not concerned at all. you are looking at the percentage of people who say this is one of the things that concerned the most. the mean is that average on a five point scale or five means with one thing that concerns the most. the very top of the list, we have terrorism being a threat. this was sort of around the time of paris and san bernardino, brussels and so on, so keep that in mind. we are too deep in debt to china. second on the list for ohio voters. too many jobs are being shipped overseas right behind debt to china and just under terrorism. we have too many manufacturing jobs. we have lost too many manufacturing jobs. really at the same place overall as jobs being shipped overseas. and when you look at the means for ever so slightly higher, college being too expensive. other things on the list as well. but really at the top of the list, debt to china, terrorism, too many jobs going overseas and losing too many manufacturing jobs. a lot of data here, i am going to summarize in one sentence. there is not a lot of difference between democrats, republicans, and independents, except to say that republicans give a lot higher priority to terrorism and democrats give a lot higher priority to income inequality and a few other things. we look at the same question in wisconsin. and we have a slightly different ordering. the gap between rich and poor is growing. really at the top of the list in wisconsin. you will note, by the way, that income inequality growing is something to do with manufacturing. but just for democrats who are interested in framing messages, even republicans for that matter, talking about income gaps much more relevant than talking about income inequality. but in any event, a gap between rich and poor growing the top of the list, again, too many manufacturing jobs being lost in the country, terrorism, federal budget deficit, all of those are significant concerns in wisconsin as well. again, same lesson here. i am not going to belabor it. democrats, republicans, and independents all are concerned about these job loss issues. some other issues, there is some differences on. these voters do see manufacturing as the critical centerpiece of our economy. and they see jobs moving overseas as the central threat to that poor skin to the bottle, to that at night sometimes, but usually not during the day. believe jobs moving overseas, significant threat to that. we move to the next slide. we ask people what they thought was the most important to the overall strength of the u.s. economy. gave them a number of industries. they selected which they thought was the most important, second most important. altogether, 51% said manufacturing was either the most or the second most important to the overall strength of the u.s. economy. high tech and knowledge industries were next tied with health care. everything else much lower. i love telling the press, only 3% thought the press was really important. the media was really important to the strength of our economy. but you can see that that cuts across traditional party lines for the most part, democrats do a bit more priority to health care. but the reality is everybody, democrats, independent republicans all see manufacturing as central. same thing is true in wisconsin. slightly different numbers with health care being a little bit more important relative to high tech. but the reality is manufacturing at the top of the list in wisconsin as well. so what is the threat here? where we gave people three options, three choices. the largest number 50% said the main reason that few jobs in the trade and manufacturing recently is that too many of those jobs have been shipped overseas. so 50% was given three choices. 50% half the voters in ohio say that job being shipped overseas. the rest are pretty evenly divided between few jobs would be crazy because there are two few skilled workers. and the main reasons i think have not been created are bias and the technologies have replaced many of our good manufacturing jobs. so the major threat, as far as most people concerned, job being shipped overseas, and you will know if it was a cross-party, it was a cross-party and a single demographic group that we looked at, the vast, the much larger number, in majority in most cases is saying it is job being shipped overseas, that is a threat. wisconsin's same basic point, almost identical to what we saw in ohio. so our support is support for a larger array of pro-manufacturing steps and go through some of those. one thing that we heard loud and clear in our focus groups made in america, auto mean well, made in america, and really wholly made in america, as far as voters are concerned. when i think of these are quotes from people in our focus groups, when i think made in america, i think it was actually made here, designed here, made here, everything, that is what i would think it would mean. well, if there was some part of it or part of the process that was not made in america, then that is not right. i feel cheated. another person in wisconsin, it should be 100%. i think all the parts should be made in america, but it says made in america. if you got our one piece outside the united states, but everything else is from america, okay, it does not make much difference if it says 2% overall from the out of wheels from someplace, but it was assembled here, the plant was ours, we built it here and everything else, i do not think you get 100% of a lot of things, but that is pretty close to 100%. when we gave people here a list of various proposals, and asked them how effective each of them would be at creating jobs and improving the economy. so we are not asking people here whether they favor to pose it, we are asking them how effective will it be in improving the economy and creating jobs? people are going to say that one of the most effective things, very effective, not too effective, sorry, so i am going to say that not too effective, not effective, also again, five choices, meaning over on the right, the average on that five point scale, the percentage saying that it is one of the most effective way to create jobs. at the top of the list, expanding apprenticeships and alastings to begin learning to trade at early size schools, type government spending in ohio, also in the top of the list, i am sure that tax money for the structural defense go to products made in the us, buy us workers, also at the top of the list on the ending tax and closing of award companies or shifting earnings overseas, providing tax incentives for coming to the free jobs home, counties for jobs shift overseas, crack down on foreign countries that violate their trade agreements, make college more affordable and down to this from there. i will note, in that more creative agreements, reduce the regulations on business, very much at the bottom of the list, as far as ohio voters are concerned, and again, you will see that this largely works across party, mostly the same things are important. democrats will, as i said, to do penny government spending, but basically the same pattern across the board, that it price much more into the more important in the infrastructure investments more into making college affordable. you can go on. we asked really two sets of questions about these proposals, put them on the call, teaching map, the sorosano act is how effective the things would be, effective people judge the things to be, and towards me is more effective, towards that side of the room less effective, and the vertical act is how important is it for congress to enact congress in the president to enact these policies? so things are up for right-winging climate. i think that people say both, that is really gonna work, and it is really important to me that congress and the president enact those proposals. so that is what is in the stuff for right-winging climate, and ohio is seeing that up for right-winging climate. we talked about expanding the friendship, ensuring the buy american policies, of the tax money that we spend, and the group polls for a particularly free bill received, and the private government spending, making loans to small business, tax rates for bringing jobs home, cracking ground and trade violations, and calling more affordable. those that lead to the kind of to be the most important. again, what is the least important thing in acting more for trade agreements, least important in voters' minds, and least effective in improving the economy. we look at the same map for wisconsin, said the teaching map, and again, is a similar kind of deal. standing in front of the concerned buying act and making college for affordable, small business loans. those are the things that we resonate most strongly in wisconsin, similar kinds of proposals. when it comes to china, people wanna get tough with china, even when the risks are presented. we offered two statements to people. one was, you do not wanna start a trade war, the china tax trade war is led to the greatest pressure. china's a huge market for american goods, three times more consumers than we have in america, only 33%, and we a third of the election, like rick and ohio took that point of view. the majority, almost six out of 10, said, we need to get tough with china, and every possible legal means to stop the unfair trade practices, including firms and the inflation, which will keep undermining our economy, taking away our jobs, unless we get tough now. so you possibly arguments on both sides, people say no, we need to get tough. and again, you notice that is the majority view in every single demographic group that we intend. democrats are public independence. men, women, older, younger, educate, well, educate less, well, educated. there is no group in which you do not have a plurality, and in almost all cases, a majority, taking that position. and we find the same thing in wisconsin, 52 to 37. and again, in almost every group, we find, in every group, we find at least a plurality, if not a majority, saying, about to get tough with china, even when we present the consequences. so voters, i will say at this point in the campaign, at least. excuse me, we are not. there is a voice coming back. the voters were not hearing the presidential candidates talk about these issues. we asked in our focus groups, are you hearing the candidates talk about these issues? i think a couple mentioned that our members specifics, they are talking generally what they would do, but they really have not said what they may do. i do not really remember any talk. too much of this kind of stuff. they are mostly talking about terrorism immigrants that going around the ground. i have heard too much about that. usually it is always a big thing with elections. not that i have seen, not that i know of, just have not heard the dialogue on this particular subject. but some of the messages that candidates are putting out really do hit home. we did not talk to people who made these issues. very clear about that. their pictures are for your information on them. but people even tell people who made these statements. we just offered the statements and said, how much more or less favorable does that statement make you feel about a candidate in general? but what does the top of the list, how many location president and excuse training more widespread, more acceptable, more accessible, sorry, more affordable, status more programs like one of cleveland, for i still have some work that seems to make the factory plant the game practical experience. again, some mentioned, i think. 82% overall said they would feel more favorable toward a candidate who said that. at present, i said a high bar for training reasons. it is really great, good us job. raise weight is an advanced or national security. again, in that, 80% said it would feel more favorable towards something with that who made that statement. you need a pro-growth economic agenda. you also need a pro-worker economic agenda. i grew up in the round of manufacturing. i know the positive impact. manufacturing processing jobs. i have our common family. these jobs do not just build strong families. we need to stay literally built in america. we do all of these. but basically, you have a lot of these kinds of statements that talk about the importance of occasional education, that talk about the centrality of manufacturing that really are generate overwhelmingly positive responses from the american public. and here's more of them. and wisconsin, saying kind of statements really rise to the top more or less. so just a few of the few points in conclusion. voter seed manufacturing is a central core of our economic strength. nonetheless, they see manufacturing on the decline. importantly, because those manufacturing jobs are being sent, shipped overseas. they want to see the threat from china address. there is strong bipartisan support for expanding apprenticeships, for renewed focus on vocational education, for ending tax policies or award companies for shifting earnings overseas, loans or small businesses, spending taxpayers money here at home, voters are not hearing much on these issues, but they do want action, real action, not just talk on these issues. and i conclude just overall by repeating something i have been saying all along, which is what is unusual about this in a highly polarized, highly partisan world that we live in. the fact is, most of these attitudes cut widely across partisanship, widely across the different parts of the political spectrum that so often divide us more like 90-10 than they do here. thank you very much. applause mark, thank you. and i would add that the complete results are available on our website for anybody who would like to peruse those a little further, including all of the various cross taps that he mentioned. well, we have gone a little over two hours here. we started late, so i really thank you for indulgence. for your indulgence, i just wanted to conclude with the following thoughts. and first, it is to thank the audience, those folks who had to leave, but especially you have been able to stick around. i want to thank the panelists for the incredibly engaging and informative points of view from industry, from academia, from public opinion. i certainly want to thank these senators who have led and lent their leadership to this effort, manufacturing jobs for america is exciting. in addition to senator kuhn, senator baldwin, and the colleagues you saw here today, there are about 10 to 15 other senators engaged in this. we are adding more all the time, and we really appreciate their work and their advocacy. i do want to thank the staff of aam, as well of senator kuhn's and senator baldwin for putting together a great program for having this in a great room. i actually started my public service with an internship right next to here while the iran contra hearings were going on, which is another famous event that happened this room way back in the 1980s, so i am dating myself now. one of the takeaways that i have from this is that there are a lot of really solid policy ideas that have an incredible amount of support for them. this idea of expanding apprenticeships, and you saw what the administration has done, we see both labor and business taking advantage of it, mentioned the steel workers in the uaw, and i know the afl-cio and the machinists and others have these labor management partnership and apprenticeships with their employers. we have seen the amazing federal support for research that is enabling the types of inventions at carnegie mellon. it seems like we need to pass a few more of these bills that make a lot of sense. seems like we need to change a few minds of people to get them engaged in manufacturing. and i really do not know a better way to do that than to say you can be part of making these autonomous vehicles, which is like a once in a generation technology. you can be part of making something that is going to end up on a permanent mission on mars. i mean, if you were not inspired by the movie, the martian or anything like that, that is one thing, but what an amazing opportunity for someone getting engaged in manufacturing now to be developing something that is going to end up on the next frontier. or you can be part of reviving a tradition that has helped drive america for most of the last 200 years. and i think these are all worthy ambitions. so we stand ready to help in any way. we appreciate all of your attention. in time today, we look forward to continuing the conversation. and we in particular want to thank senator coon, senator baldwin, and the rest of their colleagues for their leadership. thanks again. sean