i guess i would say three things. number one, and i say this, it was serious in a senator, who is just sort of a model public service leader. he is everything the truman scholarship embodies. he is principled, he is pragmatic, he is focused on how to make things happen, how to get things done, not just sort of being present. and i think he kind of embodies the maximum of president truman that it is amazing what you can get done if you do not care who gets the credit. that is number one. number two, he has been in ways you all cannot even imagine. instrumental in making the truman community come together over the entire course of his professional life. he was one of the founders of the truman scholars association, was active. i think it is still incorporated in delaware because of him, as everything should be incorporated in dollar. i had lunch by total chance today with a truman scholar who is my year. and i mentioned that we were going to come and see senator coons this evening. and he said that senator coons has been helping him as he starts to think about what he wants to do next in life. and in fact, it made two phone calls. sent him a job announcement recently. and he said, and this is a direct quote, he is a friggin senator. how does he have time for this? so he continues to embody everything that we care about. and the last thing i will say is he is from the best state in the country. i am telling you. so thank you. thank you. thank you. well, thank you. thank you, executive secretary indy rich. thank you for a longer, more full-sem introduction that i needed or deserved. and thank you for noticing over many, many years, the truman community has sustained my work in public service as i suspect you know, way back in the ancient days when the truman scholarship was really first getting started, which is when i earned it in 1984. the programming was virtually nil. i flew out to kansas city, found my way to independence, spent a puzzling afternoon listening to people talk at us. i got a trivet and a photo with margaret truman daniels and left. that was it. there was no summer institute. there were no all-bright fellows. there was no tslw. there were no dinners. it was a very bare bones, but deeply appreciated scholarship for graduate study. and given how much that investment meant to me and given a very aggressive former executive secretary who successfully browbeat me about why are not you yet in public service, i then volunteered year after year to go to tslw to be a part of summer institute, to meet with fellows. and it is been great. it is been, i have gotten so much more from the truman community than i have ever expected or deserved. there were trimmings in my wedding. there were trimmings who work on my staff. there are trimmings who are personal friends and advisors. it is an amazing community. so congratulations. you thought you won a scholarship. what you got was a lifetime community that will support you, encourage you, challenge you, go do, and hopefully occasionally amuse, inspire, and sustain you. so the journey of public service is not a solo trip. as you may have picked out. i do not know how many of you were the only person you knew like you, but my favorite trimmings at tslw's year after year were the ones who literally had never met anyone else like them. and who came to this week at the small college in western missouri and went, wow, there is others. and we just run around saying, like, you started a homeless shelter too. and taught inner city kids and developed a curriculum for a new math program and published three books. i thought i was the early person who did that. people whose entire extended families did not know what to make of them and barely tolerated their whirlwind of energy and commitment to service. the folks who i had a little more trouble with were the ones. and there were some occasionally year-in-year out who felt like they had been born to be truman scholars. that every extended member of their family was either nobel prize winner or an internationally-known photographer, or i would recently watched them testify in front of a committee or something. those folks also in the course of the week and then in the course of getting to know other truman's realized that although they were spectacular and impressive and world historical and inevitably going to ivy league institutions, they also had something to learn from the folks in the truman community who also found their way there by different paths. it is an amazing group of people. unlike any other i have ever been a part of. and i think i serve in a pretty interesting institution. so institution probably would be the right emphasis. but i think what the truman community has to offer you in terms of advice and guidance and support, both your current class and those who have preceded you and those who will succeed you is spectacular, is rare, is frankly irreplaceable. so by way of making fun of myself, i thought i would bring a throwback thursday photo of me. that is honestly me getting the truman scholarship from margaret truman daniels. i showed that to one of my children recently and they could not pick out which of them was me. because i look so dramatically different in that photo. it is just a reminder, this is a note from your future self to you, you will look different some point, 25, 30 years down the road. but the earnestness, the hopefulness, the excitedness about meeting other people who were committed to public service, who were excited about making a difference in the world, that kind of edgy enthusiasm that dominated my one day and my trivet receipt ceremony in kansas city and independent so many years ago still stays with me today. i live on delaware avenue in wilmington, delaware. every morning when i get off the train and walk up to the capitol to my office, i walk up delaware avenue. and harry truman's home was on delaware avenue. thank you. you all knew this. i mean, come on. it is a little trivia thing. a little state that is actually, i think, contributed a great deal to american political culture. let me just say a few things about running for office in my experience of public service in delaware, if i could, just by way of leaving some breadcrumbs. and then i am much more interested in your questions than i am in me talking any longer. hey, guaranteed sign that i am still a relatively junior senator. i do not want to simply talk the entire time. i got into public service, meaning elected office, which is a very narrow definition of public service. but i ran for office for the first time in 2000. in no small part, because i was asked to, my response was in gracious. the county party chairman took me out to lunch, sat me down, and very gravely said, there is an ethical crisis in county government, and we need you to run for county council president. and i am not usually this rude. i laughed in his face. he is a very nice older gentleman. he is very committed to county government. he is been involved in local politics for two generations. he served on county council with joe biden in 1970. and he is the chairman of the delaware democratic party today. so this is a guy who is been involved a long time. he ran for congress in 1970. i went home and i said to my wife, you know, i am stupid, but i am not crazy. county government is an ethical swamp. it is a morass. it is a mess. nobody pays attention to it. it is this isolated little thing. they are in the middle of constantly fighting with each other. they have got all sorts of problems. why would i want to do this? and my wife who had spent seven years working in county government under the previous county executive looked at me and said, i did not should grow up here. did not you tell me about how your youth group at church met in a county park weekend in wicca? did not you tell me about how county police came? and like broke up fights that you almost were on the receiving end of. did not you tell me about how your mom, and she was a single mom for a while, and needed something to do with the kids, dropped you and your brothers off at the county library. it is like, yeah. clearly she would been paying more attention to these details than i had. and she said, you have spent your whole life taking what county government has built. is not it time you did something? is not it time you actually helped? and i am like, ok, i get it. yes, we are going to do this, are not we? the good news, have you ever watched parks and recreation? the characters in that show really were the characters with whom i served in county government. and the character who is the most optimistic, most forward leaning, most excited about service, that is my wife. i found the enormous, unexpected, and undeserved blessing of an amazing life partner who is as committed to public services, i am probably more. someone who actually really believes that making a difference in our neighborhood, or improving parks or libraries, or dealing with response time from our paramedics, or improving police community relations is the most exciting, most important thing i could possibly do. i spent years before meeting her, sort of going from thing to thing, working for this nonprofit, working for this organization, going to this graduate program, sort of wandering and trying to find what was exactly the right thing. and i suspect much like some of you might be doing, staying up way too late with other truman friends, trying to scheme out and exactly measure what like, should i do this job, or this degree, or should i go here or should i go there? what i did not know then, and what i wish i could have told that much younger self, is that none of that mattered. all that mattered because i knew in my heart for me what was right was a family. and that is what i cared about more than anything else, was to find the right person to do it with. i have had friends try to pursue a career in public service, married to somebody who is not supportive of it, who is not committed to it, who is not interested in it, and it does not go well. and i have seen people transformed by a life partnership that shares a common set of values. i have also been deeply puzzled by folks who i have met, like james carville and mary matlin, who have wildly opposing political views, and i do not know how they make it through a week. but my work running for county council president, serving as county executive, running several times, county-wide, and getting up early, working late, and doing the kind of stuff that is exciting and makes a difference in matters, i just at the outset had to say, was really only possible because i got fortunate enough to meet someone through americorps. that is how we met. i was running an americorps program, and she was on the americorps commission. so you never know what volunteerism and service might bring you by way of unexpected joy. without her, i do not think any of this would have been possible. at the early stages of your career, the level of experience and opportunity you can get in state and local government is unmatched. i know you are, i have read your resumes. i know you are having unbelievable experiences in federal agencies and organizations, and this is a great summer, and you have had really unrivaled undergraduate educational opportunities. but i am just making a brief pitch. when i got asked to run for council president, my initial reaction was so negative because nobody grows up dreaming of being in municipal government. relatively few people grow up thinking, right? that what i really, i mean, we are in the senate, right? you are in washington because it is washington, it is big, it is pretty, it is marbly, it is got lots of crenellations and whatever these things are called, on tops of columns and stuff, you know? obviously it did not take architecture in college. and this place is run by 25 year olds. but your ability to actually make a difference on a relatively short time frame and affect people's lives in small local nonprofits and in community governments is impressive. i had a remarkable experience there. if my entire elected service had begun and ended in new castle county government, i would have had a complete and fulfilling life. this time is different, serving in the senate is different from being in a little county government and little old delaware. but the hardest decisions i ever made, i made there. and the lessons i learned about how to serve your community and how to actually respond to voters needs and how to actually care more than you thought you could, i learned there. so i could go on an enormous length, i am gonna stop. i just wanna say i am thrilled to have some time with you. every year that i get a chance to be with truman scholars, i come away again having gotten more from you than i think you get from me. so let me encourage you to take the time we have got left to ask me really pointed questions. ask me questions that you know, you hope you wish that somehow you 30 years from now could tell you now or ask me questions that you have always wanted to ask a senator and given that i am being recorded, i probably should not answer, but i will. or give me some advice on how to get through this. because frankly part of the problem we are having right now is adapting to the rate of change. the ways in which you communicate, you have always communicated. it is not new to you. when my boys asked me the other day, what was my favorite website when i was their age? right, i had to remind them that since i was raised in a cave, there was no internet or email or video games when i was their age. they cannot conceive of it. i view our country as facing a fundamental challenge in that we cannot listen to each other. we cannot compromise. we do not have conversations. we are constantly texting and tweeting and instagramming and facebooking and we have come unglued and we have lost the capacity to actually listen to each other. but it may not seem that way to you. if we are to be the most diverse, most robust, most open and most sustainable democracy in the world, we have got to figure out how to actually listen to each other and work together. and i am confident that in the truman community is the full range of political views and opinions and backgrounds that represents our current country. so since we are having a hard time figuring all this out in the senate, perhaps you can offer me some advice. so with that, please, i would love to take your questions and let us have a conversation. please. and if you would tell me your name and what state you are from, that would help me. i will walk. i am roger rock. i am roger rock. i am molly from connecticut. and i guess i just had a question about your climate global climate governance. mm-hmm. how do you handle the still-meaning of the public service to the citizens who you may not have necessarily not agreed with but citizens who would be meaning that we are really not good or saying things that are truly really people who are really problematic in the community? how do you handle the still-meaning of the public? i will take a stab at it and then tell me if i am misunderstanding your question because that is a problem in the senate as well as, i mean, here's the good news, bad news. i commute home virtually every night. i am in delaware all weekend and many evenings and most fridays and mondays. and so it is not significantly different from when i was in county government. it is a tiny state. we have fewer than 900,000 people in the whole state. and i represented 500,000 of them for 10 years in county government. you can get from one end to the other in little under two hours and from one side to the other in 15 minutes. from, it is 13 miles. it tells you how fast i drive, does not it? it is one of those algebra word problems. my boys are working on these days. in 15 minutes, the senator can go 13 miles. he is driving how high above the speed limit? from my home, i can be in three states in less than 20 minutes. so it is a different kind of place. it is also midwest nice. i mean, it is a genuinely oddly midwestern state, right? a delaware. i mean, stuck in the mid-atlantic, in between new york and philly and baltimore and washington, this is a little corner of kansas. we are ohio or something. so people were not that aggressive obnoxious difficult. it is extremely rare. it is almost never happened. i mean, every couple of months. that someone is so in my face and so obnoxious that i either i have safety concerns or i just feel like, ok, that is enough. i do not have to take that much vulgarity. that is very rare. i have no security. i have nobody with me. and i have lots of people come and talk to me. whether i am at costco or at me, after church or walk in my dog, whether i am standing on the side line of a soccer game or going for a run with my wife. i mean, people come up and delaware is very approachable. vice president biden is joe. everyone calls him joe. he is not vice president biden to anyone. i mean, i do not think i have ever heard him call that in delaware. so i am also chris and senator harper is tom. and our governor is jack. and i mean, there is a different culture. but there are people who occasionally have real problems in their lives or real anger issues who feel like it is your problem and your issue. i think i owe them a certain amount of respect and a certain amount of their opportunity to unload on me. but there have to be limits. i mean, this is true whether you are a teacher or an electrician or a minister or a, you know, running a grocery store. like there is a certain amount of, hey, i am really upset about the spoiled milk that you were selling in this grocery store today. and then there is a certain letter, a four-letter word, anger and threatening to burn down your house. we are like, ok, this is just a gallon of milk here. people call my office pretty regularly, really angry about something. the folks in my office who answer those phones more often than not say as long as they just listen respectfully and stay on the phone and let them know that someone from delaware who is going to tell me about the call cares, 90% of the time they come way down. i disappoint people regularly. that is part of being elected. i will vote for the iran deal or i will vote for tpa and i will have people who have known me and supported me for decades. tell me to my face how upset and disappointed they are. or i will vote against a certain nominee, i will vote against a certain bill. and i will have people who i know and care about tell me how deeply upset or disappointed they are. that is one of the real challenges of the job is to not harden your heart to that, to recognize that, like, i work for them. like, this is my boss talking. and so to continue to be open and to accept the criticism and to learn from it and to try and respond to it, that is the essence of public service. and where i can make a difference when i can solve their problem to be excited about it and to engage with it. if it were not for the constituent work we can get done in delaware, i do not know that i would still be doing it this fun. because this is really not running very well right now. but that is what i hang on to is the ability to actually help people individually in delaware and make a difference. so sometimes it does not go so well and they complain. but most of the time it is very positive. and i really enjoy it and that is what i feed off. please. hi, i am brandon from the pacific. hey, brian. what if my question is transitioning from your own position in the county government to the position and the tenant, obviously, do you feel like you have had to make the personal or professional compromises? and if so, how does that kind of shape your ideology and change the amount? ok. if i were not willing to make, well, maybe a misunderstanding would compromise. let me start. i think our biggest problem in the senate today is that we have a small but significant number of senators who have come here thinking compromises a bad word. they are compromising with the other party, that compromising with our president, that compromising with the house is bad. and that is not what you are supposed to do. i think it is actually in the job description. if the founders had written a job description for senator or member of the house, compromise would be in a one sentence version of it. so yes, i have compromised. i think that is my job. i have put a huge amount of time into building real friendship. i am about to go out of dinner with a conservative republican senator from the south. he is the chair i am the ranking on an appropriation subcommittee that is going to make some very hard decisions about financial services in this country. who knows? maybe we can get something done. but if we are not willing to talk to each other, we absolutely cannot. what you may have meant about personal or professional compromises is more like the ethical compromise for the every day that i choose to go to work rather than spend that day with my three children is the day i am compromising on my role as father and husband. so i will tell you that is something that weighs on me. i mean, my wife often says, you are a great and engaged dad, forgive yourself. but if you were not doing this job, you would be doing something else where you would be knocking yourself out helping people. but i always count the costs. i mean, my boys are teenagers, my daughters now a teenager. there is that inevitable process where they are beginning to be more interested in their friends and to be more focused on things outside the home. and i terribly miss the wonderful time we used to have. i go home almost every night so that i get some time with my kids. but this kind of work takes me away from my family regularly. i am on the foreign relations committee. the last four years i chaired the africa subcommittee. i have taken quite a few trips to africa. that is often a whole week away from my family. so those are real compromises. if i did not have an amazing spouse and understanding and supportive kids, i would not do this. yes, you inevitably have to compromise. two areas that i will mention briefly, meaning in terms of the compromise your principles. i wish it were possible to read every bill and to actually know what i am voting on and to actually know every bill i am signed on to. it is not possible. it is literally not possible. there are thousands of bills. even in a relatively low-performing, low productivity senate, there are more bills than any member could possibly read. when i first got on county council, and i was highly suspicious of what the county administration of the time was doing later justified by the federal criminal investigation. there were some early warnings there, but i read every single bill. i was up all night. and i had another full-time job. and three kids under three. so i was finding reading the packet of legislation for every other week for a meeting pretty hard. i started doing triage. i realized, i dug into and realized that there is a formal bureaucratic process by which this is really arcane. certain neighborhoods would impose upon themselves a light tax in order to pay for streetlights. the actual text of the bill to do that would be 40 pages, 30 pages. i sat down with the relevant folks in the legal department in the public works department, understood the process, looked at it and came away and said, okay, that is something where the risk of corruption or the risk of misuse or misappropriation is extremely small. it is being run independently, it is being run well. okay, so out of that packet, i am now not reading the light tax bills. there are similar things you have to do as a senator. there are whole areas where you say, you know what? i am not on that committee. i am not being asked to vote on controversial bills in that committee. i have a staffer who is capable and bright and young and she is gonna stay on top of it and tell me when there is an issue i really need to get involved in. i have 40 full-time staff. they are spectacular, gifted, hardworking and insightful. if it were not for them, there is no way i could stay on top of the range of things i am asked to be involved in. but it has been very rare that i have felt that i have even been asked to compromise on a basic principle. that is much less a part of this work than i think is imagined. what is the tv show with frank? house of cards. it is fiction. it is just not that exciting. most of what happens here is more boring and grinding than it is people shoving someone in front of metros. so just a word of caution. it is not that hammer and tongs, you know, it is sort of good and evil. it is more keeping up your standards, doing all your reading, being attentive and thoughtful to your constituents, being attentive and engaged in the hearings and actually being willing to make hard choices and make the compromises that you should to get legislation done. that is the hard part and being a good husband and father. balancing all that? yeah, that is a full play. and we are gonna go back over here, please. why did you set up your goals at the point that you thought of in new york? first of all, say thank you so much. you did sign up with us. happy to. so we should have a good one with it. i also would say i am working on an application to work with both of us. what is it? it is a free thing. it is not a free thing. it is important distinction. it is so exciting. i want to thank you for doing your office and on the last comment more of the companies that bring them up to the key to the moment. yeah. so my question for you is, how do you, in that way, how do you, in the number of operations do you have in that way? do you have any questions? do you have any questions? how do you? that is an enduring question for us as a country, as well as for me and my office. because i think those are often intentioned. i just, i have met a number of times with folks who are representing or working for amerihekmadi, who is an american marine of iranian ancestry, who is in prison in iran. and there is been a lot of questioning or challenging from some quarters about, you know, how could the administration conclude a deal with iran that i support for trying to restrain their nuclear weapons program and not have secured the release of three americans who are currently being held, including a washington post reporter. and one of the, to me, most memorable experiences i got was to go to visit alan gross in prison in cuba with senator leahy before our relations with cuba changed. and frankly, the release of alan gross was one of the key barriers to that relationship moving forward and his release and the opportunity to meet with him in my office after he returned was a real moment for me of grace. we have to hold these intention. to me, the challenge is first to always make sure that human rights and that our basic principles are commitment to democracy, to transparency, to inclusion are in the room on the table, discussed and debated, and part of the conversation that we do not let national security or economic interest just automatically trump that we do not go through the process of evaluating honestly, can we make a difference here? is this someone whose release we can secure? is this a country whose behavior we can meaningfully change or challenge? is this a moment when we are really hurting our own long-term strategic interests in the region by insisting on a matter of principle? or is this the moment to do that, to, at all costs, stand up for core principle? in a lot of regions in the world, we have a checkered history where things that we did 20, 30, 50 years ago were brought up in every conversation and every meeting with a head of state. so one of the things that i think as we look at to pick an example, guantanamo, the rest of the world pays a lot of attention to what the united states does and has a very long memory about it. we inspire, one of the best things that i got to do as a young person was to spend a semester in kenya at the university of nairobi. it was the first sort of real choice i ever made. it was something i did that nobody wanted me to do. i mean, my parents, my fraternity, my debate club, my girlfriend, everybody thought it was nuts. and it was a fantastic experience for me. and one small piece of the insight i got from that was just how much attention was being paid to everything that the united states was doing in kenya when the average american was paying absolutely no attention to kenya. and this is true and repeated across dozens and dozens of countries. what we do, how we do it, how well we do it, how we live up to our fundamental principles teaches in a very big way. we do not determine the outcome of things in much of the world. bad actions are ascribed to us that we have nothing to do with and other countries think that we have greater influence than we do. but we also are a more inspirational, more transformative and more positive force in the world than i think the average american realizes. the number of people i have met all over the world who grew up watching our movies and television shows listening to our music and thinking about what we mean and hoping to come here someday or having some relative here who they were communicating with, i am stunned. from being in a tiny little town in upcountry liberia and running into someone from beard, delaware, to being in haiti, to being in afghanistan, the number of places i have talked to people who are refugees, who are human rights activists, who are elected leaders, who are community leaders, who are challenged and inspired by america's principles, it would be awe-inspiring, i think, if the average american could know that. so we have to remember how much the rest of the world watches, pays attention to, and measures us against our self-stated principles, which are inspiring and which are world-leading if we would but live into them. i hope i answered your question. thanks. please. and where are you from? delaware. delaware, ladies and gentlemen, around of applause, go out of delaware in the house. yes, thank you. i am actually interested in hearing about your experience and running for seven in a very interesting and surprising life profile. care to comment any further on that? oh, i mean, i guess. you mean in 2010, not 2014? yes. i thought so. do you mean what was it like or how did it happen? or? now, on your, what were your experiences when you did the whole deal with some private duty to deal with the sudden via tension on the phone? yes. yes. so many of you may not know this record have paid much attention to it because it happened now five years ago. when i was asked by the vice president to run for the seat he long held in the us senate, after his son bow decided not to run, it was very late in the cycle. it was late in january of election year. my opponent was mike castle, a wonderful man, a two-term governor, nine-term congressman with 98% name recognition and two and a half million dollars in the bank. i was a second-term county executive. i just finished running for reelection two years earlier. so i had a little bit of a political network and nothing in the bank and had never run statewide. this was widely viewed as a suicide mission. as a take one for the team, let us jump off a bridge kind of mission. i discovered later by virtually everyone who volunteered to work on the campaign. i think my wife, me, and maybe my mother believed i could win. so the first six months of the campaign, i was determined to run a respectful, positive decent campaign. the very first campaign for which i ever volunteered was mike castle for lieutenant governor in 1980 when i was a junior in high school. mike and i went to the same high school. we live near each other. our spouses are actually personal friends. i like mike. i admire him. we see each other every wednesday on the drain. and he is a genuinely decent man. but his party had left him. and i saw that in 08 when i ran and he ran. i could see that both he had not had a serious challenge in years. and his own party had really moved far to the right of him. so i thought it was strongly possible that i would win. but in a very different way than it ended up happening. the day after the primary, i was campaigning up and down the state. i was busy and vigorous, active running against my castle. but it was a sleepy campaign that no one outside of delaware was paying any attention to. there was an aids walk that began. it was in rockford park, just a few blocks from my house. i was late for the event. i was running from another event. so i have got a whole bunch of people walking in the aids walk and wearing shirts. so i literally run up to the tower to meet them. and as i am running down, there is this camera crew and they are jogging along. and i am like, hi. what are you looking for? and they are like, you. i said, why? and they said, because we are so interested in your campaign. and i literally said, why? and they were from japan. a busload of 44 journalists showed up literally within 48 hours. christina donald, who was my opponent in the general election, christina donald raised $1 million in her first day as a candidate after winning the primary unexpectedly to the shock and awe of the delaware republican party let alone me. and it made for a very different sort of campaign. i was on a nationally televised wolf blitzer moderated university of delaware hosted debate with christina donald on cnn about three weeks after i was running this determined, positive, but somewhat sleepy campaign against a really nice older gentleman named mike castle. and it was terrifying because my mother and the vice president had both called the day after the primary and said, do not screw it up. and said the same thing, which is, you can lose. you absolutely can lose if you are disrespectful. most people of my generation remember very little of the presidential debates in which say, al gore, competed except the heavy sigh rolling of eyes and clancing at watch, that ultimately was all anyone talked about after the debate. and the vice president said to me several times, if you disrespect her, that is her issue. you are this yale educated super over smart elite guy rolling your eyes and having heavy size while she is speaking for the working people of delaware. and she is got twice as much money as you do. she raised $7 million in six weeks. she outspent me two to one. she had fantastic ads except for the first one. and she really could have made it a very strong race, except for all those bill mar interviews that she gave 15 years earlier. so the great news was all my opposition research was done by someone else and put on tv. we had a series of prominent debates. and it was an interesting challenge. the best advice i got was, again, for my mother. you are having a job interview. you are asking the people of delaware to hire you to go solve important problems for them in washington and to respond to their real needs in delaware. think about every job interview you have ever had. you do not sit next to the other person and say, do not hire him, he is an idiot. you do not do that. you talk about what do you bring, how do you fit the needs of the company organization, and what is it you are going to do, and what are your values and how do they align with the needs of the job that you might fill? that is it. do that. debate might castle and talk to the people of delaware and ignore the fact that over here is something else going on. and it was enormously challenging. for the 90 minutes of our debate, i could barely keep a straight face. some of the things that were said were eye-popping. but, you know, and afterwards backstage, i had no idea really how it had gone. wolf blitzer walked right past her, came right up to me, and said, how did you keep a straight face through all of that? and i thought, probably turned out okay. so, i have got more stories, but i should probably stop there. thank you. please. thank you, dennis. thank you, beth. my name is shunceler. i am a small. and she is about three hours or 20 minutes. one of our speakers from earlier this year said that she thought there should be more bureaucrats as small meters. and i am afraid it is a two-part question, i should say. do you think that is a issue that some lawmakers either connection or state level level do not fully comprehend, i guess, the implementation process of the law would go into the corporate rate as much as they are decision-making and making it more? and... i am making some assumptions about who said this. and the second part is, especially if we are all thinking about what kind of prejudice will program to want to go into law to go into business qualities of our minds, especially if we are still thinking about policymaking and public office, what do you think is, i suppose, the lack of the right thing about it? do you think it is important for people to emphasize business backgrounds and legal backgrounds? i know that it is an educational level of the law school. in theory recently, some people in the first of the business school or economics degrees are so important to you. how do i know that is important? for elected service or for working in the guts of a bureaucracy somewhere? for elected service. got it. that is what i thought you were asking, but i figured i would put a point on it. what is lacking? courage. period. it does not matter what degree you have. it does not matter where you go to graduate school. that is not what people elect you for. it was really hard to hear. the first time i ran, i had this like earnest little brochure that i would made on my own home computer. he was a picture of me and the kids and wife and my resume on the back. i went to yale law school and yale divinity school. i thought that was cool, important for people to know. it would make them want to vote for me. and someone who is very close to me who is helped me in every campaign saw that and just went a few more on through it on the ground and said, get that junk off the back of your brochure. and i went, what are you talking about? he goes, you did not go to the university of delaware or delaware state? nobody wants to hear it. i saw a bit of that. he says, yale. oh, you went to yale. he said, i will tell you exactly what you get with that brochure. like 10 people who go, oh, that is really quite impressive. and 1,000 who go, oh, yeah, get out of here. so forgive me. i mean no disrespect to your remarkable educational experiences. he is absolutely right. i would have been so much better off and saved a lot of money if i would gone to the university of delaware as most of my family did. i thought it was kind of neat going to yale. but you know what? in terms of state politics and connect, because what do people want to know? they do not want to know your five point plan for solving phil and the blank bureaucratic problem. they do not want to know that you are deeply rooted in the processes of administrative law and bureaucracy. they do not care about that. they want to know that when they call you with a problem, you are going to listen. so he was like, it needs your number, your phone number, your cell phone number, where you are going to take their call. i went, oh, that is pretty smart. he goes, and no, yale. i do a lot of door knocking training. i first started door knocking in the late 80s. i knocked doors running for the united states senate. that is delaware. what do i mean? everybody here gone door knocking sometime? my gosh, good for you. you really all do want to run for office, do not you? it is very rare you get more than one head nod when you say if you ever gone door knocking. what is it like? right. my favorite, and i will briefly review the experience with you. so i am going to a trailer park in cheswald about six months into my campaign with a great young guy who is running for state representative. he is so excited. he is got a real life united states senator walking around with him. he is not done this before we, right? and woman answers, and she is got kid, food, what? and i am like, hi, i am. and he is like, hi, i am. and more outcomes is first three points of what he would like to accomplish in dover. and i am like, stop it. and she is giving us the like, what are you doing on my stoop look? and he eventually cuts in and says, i do not know who you are. and i really do not care. and i am like, madam, is there anything we could do that would make a difference in your life? and she goes, yeah, i got an idea. come here. see that van? i have a disabled child. see that pothole? every time i back out this little driveway, it bottoms out. i have replaced three mufflers in the last year. i do not know what the two of you do, and i do not really care. if one of you can fix a pothole, get over here, fix it, and then get back to mail vote for you. thanks. goes back in. i said, there is a lesson for you, brother. like, take your name, take your card, put it in, figure out this address. i will help you figure out who is the right person within the delaware department of transportation come back to this neighborhood, get the pothole filled. that is the job. do that for 10 years. now you can talk about peace and human rights and your seven point plan for renewable energy and how a renewable fuel standard will actually be a wiser solution to south alaska, ethanol, the corn-based up-rank, blah, blah, blah. we are policy wongs. we are weenies. that is why we are truman's college, which is great. but at the end of the day, we work for the average american. and the freedom that they have to spend time really worried about their own lives and really worried about what is important to them right now, right in front of them, is in no small part because we have a country where they do not have to be terrified. where the whole thing is not about to come unglued. where security and stability and opportunity are relatively speaking woven into the fabric of this country. and they may or may not care to participate in helping you put together some great big policy proposal. what they want to know is, are you honest? are you going to take their call? are you going to deal with their problem? and what i hear from democrats and republicans upstate and downstate. do you have the courage to cast a vote against your party? and do you actually care more about them than you do about your job as an elected official? you got that? it does not matter where you go. it does not matter what the degree is. they are important. they help. yelts are really good. but it does not really matter. did i answer your question? not exactly the way you had hoped and anticipated. you have got that look of like, i did not like that answer. but maybe he is right, please. we have time for just one more question. i am out of the forest in 2012, style of new york. my question relates back to how you read out your initial comments about us from coming on glue. there was recently a really good article of the atlantic this month about how our government has so many checks and balances. it requires everyone to play along your function, where one, the house or the senate or the president, it is not playing all, and everything right, so all. given that, and given that the norms of getting things done and compromising, had to be it, is it time to revisit some of the checks and balances, not necessarily the big ones right into the constitution, but the ones embedded in, say, senate rules, that gave a lot of power to pretty small numbers of legislators. i am increasingly an institutionalist, the long-term here, because some things like the fellowbuster are structural restraints that protect the rights of the minority. what distinguishes the house and the senate is that in the house, if you are in the minority, you get nothing. i mean, you have got to show up and vote just so people at home know that you are doing your job, but it does not matter. they set the majority party, like sets the rules, run the agenda, and you literally cannot slow them down. i think we are dangerously close to a moment when some attempt will be made to eliminate the fellowbuster on legislation, as well as on judges. and i have some reservations about what we set in motion by making that change for district court nominees. the level of distrust and disconnect has gone from very, it was a small challenge, a persistent problem, to being a broader one. one of the good news, bad news aspects of my traveling around are very difficult and dangerous parts of the world in my foreign relations role, is that i have seen truly dysfunctional national governments that utterly fail to meet the needs of their people. and it is a reminder that relatively speaking, this is a highly functional, transparent, ethical, high-performing government that has articulated admirable values and lives up to them nearly every day. but it is time to start really worrying about what happens next. we are dangerously close to defaulting on the sovereign debt of the united states, which is a wildly reckless thing to say, let alone do. the government of the united states shut down for 17 days, two years ago. imagine what that says to a leader, and i know, because i have heard from them, of an african country that is trying really hard to become a multi-party democracy, where the chinese are coming around and saying, hey, by the way, that really messy, difficult democracy thing, where you have got to put up with human rights protesters and reporters asking you hard questions and competing parties, we have got a different model, and it is working great. and those guys, they just shut the whole thing down for no apparent articulable reason. so yes, i worry that we need to, and we will, re-examine some of the checks and balances. at the end of the day, there is only one hero in this narrative. there is only one superhero who can solve this, and it is the average american voter. it is not the magic of term limits, it is not the silver bullet of citizen redistricting commissions, it is not overthrowing the supreme court and rolling back citizens, united, although all of those are real interests to me in some way, some solution to those parts of the challenge. but what is striking is how the congress has sunk to its lowest approval ratings in recorded history, and yet we seem impervious to that. i am struck by how many congressmen and senators do not seem to notice, or frankly deeply care, that we have a lower approval rating than cockroaches, communism, or cancer. so i do think that people are sending us a strong message in terms of public opinion polls. i am expecting they will soon begin sending it in electoral results, and there are some structural issues. i do not think it is just the rules of the senate or how we form committees or filibuster rules. i think it may end up being more structural than that. i think at the moment we frankly have three parties. and the republican party today happens to be profoundly divided. during the civil rights era, the 1940s, 50s, 60s, and the united states, the democratic party was effectively two parties that had a fundamental disconnect on values. the republican party is in the same place today. and we will go through a period. if they lose the next presidential contest, they were dumbfounded at obama winning re-election and it met romney losing. i mean, the shock and the stun, and i cannot believe this, in my colleagues, was noticeable. if that happens again, which is a big f, if their nominee is unsuccessful this time, i suspect there will be a real re-examination within the republican party. if that is not the case, we will find ourselves re-examining some of the basic rules of operation, i suspect. i am going to take one last question. andy's trying to respect my time, but you have won. i am going to introduce you to your government, sir. i was supposed to be sharing a gathering with you yesterday that five stars in the morning were coming to our presence. it is on hardball at 7 of the clock tonight. i will not dodge that. look, joe is a different, he is just a special person. there is nothing. you probably have not. he is been a big part of the delaware political scene my whole life. and he is a big personality. he is a man with a big heart and who deeply and genuinely connects with people. and what i think he has brought to his elected service and to public life in some ways was perfect for this presidential cycle. there is no question about whether he is authentic. nobody thinks that he dial tests everything he says, because he says what he thinks. and no one questions the depth of his passion about inclusion and justice, about the middle class, or his decades of experience in national security and foreign policy, he had a lot to offer. but as a father myself, i would say the times i had the opportunity to visit with him after a bow pass were terrifying, because the depths of his grief were so profound, there was no bottom. and so he did what he is always done, which has put his family first and spent a lot of time, even though he saw a clear window where he might well have ended up being president. he took the time to really think this through with his family. and i think today he concluded that that window to be president had passed. i do not know how he will continue to contribute beyond this year. i mean, he made it clear today. i mean, that was all but an announcement speech. i mean, i do not know if you have got to see his announcement today. but he laid out a series of bold and clear and concrete ideas the things he would have fought for as president. i am hoping that there will be a role for him to contribute nationally after 2017. but being around him, my whole life has set a different set of values and priorities. he is in no small part why i commute home every night. he is in no small part why i think folks in delaware ought to be on a first name basis with me, and ought to be able to challenge me. and he is why amtrak ought to motobiles and manufacturing are key parts of what i fight for, because it is what i always heard him fight for. and i know that being a country that makes things, that invents things and grows things and makes things and sells them to the rest of the world is the only way we are going to get back to real greatness. so it would have been an amazing inventor. i went to iowa forum in 2008, and it would have been quite something. but i think he made the right choice for his family and quite possibly given the timing for the country. folks, thank you so much. thanks for a chance to be together. and i hope i am going to get to see you all again, whether it is in delaware or at a reunion or somewhere else. and the story i told, i am always happy to help as you try and discern what is the right career for you. there is no job you could apply for for which i would not recommend you, because i mean, literally, my wife sort of jokingly talks about the truman scholar mafia that runs the world. that will someday become true. you will become the illuminati of america. we did have a moment, this two or three years ago, where we had a cabinet secretary at congressman and me standing around each other and you are like, this is the first time it is ever happened. that there is a truman scholar, senator congressman, cabinet official, but it will not be the last. so get in, pitch in, make a difference. the reality is our nation really, really needs you. so do it. throw yourself into it. do it with your whole heart and be accountable to the people you represent. thanks. great being with you. thank you.