press releases hawley, warner to introduce bipartisan legislation revealing number of jobs lost to ai wednesday, november 05, 2025 washington -- today, u.s. senators josh hawley (r-mo.) and mark warner (d-va.) announced they will introduce the ai-related job impacts clarity act. this legislation would require major companies and federal agencies to report ai related layoffs to the department of labor to be compiled into a publicly available report. “artificial intelligence is already replacing american workers, and experts project ai could drive unemployment up to 10-20% in the next five years,” said senator hawley. “the american people need to have an accurate understanding of how ai is affecting our workforce, so we can ensure that ai works for the people, not the other way around.”“good policy starts with good data. this bipartisan legislation will finally give us a... read more hawley urges boeing to negotiate with missouri workers on strike tuesday, november 04, 2025 washington -- today, u.s. senator josh hawley (r-mo.) sent a letter to boeing's president and ceo kelly ortberg, urging him to negotiate in good faith with boeing's 3,300 machinists currently on strike in st. louis. senator hawley wrote, "as you know, these nearly 3,300 machinists have been on strike for fourteen weeks. that’s fourteen weeks without a paycheck and access to healthcare. a few weeks ago, i heard from joshua arnold—a decade-plus boeing defense shop steward, army veteran, and father—when he testified before a senate committee. he reported that, because of boeing’s refusal to offer the machinists a contract that mirrors their value to the company, he and his fellow machinists have been without a paycheck for over three months. further, some of... read more hawley op-ed: no american should go to bed hungry tuesday, october 28, 2025 washington - today, u.s. senator josh hawley (r-mo.) penned the following op-ed on his legislation to fund food benefits that are set to run out on november 1 due to the ongoing government shutdown. read the full op-ed here or below. the federal government has been shut down for 28 days and counting. that’s 28 days too long and already the second-longest federal shutdown ever. saturday will be another grim milestone. that is the day about 42 million americans will lose federal food assistance.congress must not let that happen. america is a great and wealthy nation, and our most important wealth is our generosity of spirit. we help those in need. we provide for the widow and the orphan. love of neighbor is part of who we are. the scripture’s injunction to... read more hawley introduces bipartisan bill protecting children from ai chatbots with parents, colleagues tuesday, october 28, 2025 washington -- today, u.s. senator josh hawley (r-mo.) held a press conference introducing bipartisan legislation to protect children from ai chatbots, the guard act. he was joined by cosponsors of the bill, senators richard blumenthal (d-conn.), katie britt (r-ala.), mark warner (d-vir.), and chris murphy (d-conn.) as they made the case for the guard act. this legislation would ban ai companions for minors, mandate ai chatbots disclose its non-human status, and create new crimes for companies who make ai for minors that solicits or produces sexual content. in attendance at the press conference were parents whose children tragically committed suicide or self-harm at the direct prompting of ai chatbots, as well as supporting advocates and... read more new hawley bill to protect snap benefits during shutdown gains cosponsors friday, october 24, 2025 washington -- u.s. senator josh hawley (r-mo.) filed legislation this week to ensure food stamps will continue to be funded despite the ongoing government shutdown. today, he has secured support from senators james lankford (r-okla.), marsha blackburn (r-tenn.), susan collins (r-maine), bernie moreno (r-ohio), kevin cramer (r-n.d.) and lisa murkowski (r-alaska.) for his keep snap funded act. the legislation is circulating in the senate as several states report pending shortfalls in the snap program due to the shutdown.“needy families in missouri should not be going hungry because a bunch of politicians in dc cannot figure out how to open the government,” said senator hawley. “650,000 people in missouri depend on help when it comes to the price of food and... read more hawley to introduce legislation to guarantee direct payments for farmers & ranchers using tariff funds thursday, october 23, 2025 washington -- today, senator josh hawley announced he will introduce legislation, the support our farmers and ranchers act of 2025, to deliver direct payments for farmers and ranchers using revenue collected from president trump’s tariffs.the program will use billions in tariff money to provide congressional authorization for the trump administration’s plans to deliver relief for farmers and ranchers after several years of high input costs and low profitability margins. during his first term, president trump provided tens of billions in a relief program to account for market conditions. senator hawley’s support our farmers and ranchers act would permit the trump administration to immediately proceed with a similar relief program for this... read more hawley introduces legislation to fund food stamps and farm programs during government shutdown wednesday, october 22, 2025 washington -- yesterday, u.s. senator josh hawley (r-mo.) introduced two bills to reinstate supplemental nutrition assistance program (snap) benefits and critical farm programs during the government shutdown. "since the democrats refuse to fund the government, i am introducing legislation to reinstate food stamps and farm programs immediately," said senator hawley."missourians should not go hungry because of the left's incompetence. our kids deserve to eat." more than 650,000 missourians stand to lose their access to food benefits next month because democrats refuse to fund the government. the vast majority of those missourians are families with children. the keep snap funded act would ensure full funding for the snap program during the government shutdown. under the... read more hawley doubles down on data center concerns in response to state legislator friday, october 17, 2025 washington -- today, senator josh hawley (r-mo.) responded to cindy o'laughlin, president pro tempore of the missouri state senate, after she wrote aletter to senator hawley calling his concerns for missourians' rising utility costs "misleading." he shot back at o'laughlin, saying she "told me to stop asking questions about data centers and higher electricity rates. not a chance." this comes after senator hawley sent a letter to ameren corporation president and ceo martin lyons calling out ameren for reportedly pursuing expensive corporate projects while thousands of missourians experience rate hikes and power shut-offs. hawley requested communications regarding ameren’s rate increases, power disconnections, data-center expansion, as... read more hawley introduces bill banning abortion and gender-transitions for minors on the healthcare exchanges wednesday, october 15, 2025 washington -- today, senator josh hawley (r-mo.) introduced the prohibiting abortion & transgender procedures on the exchanges act, which would prohibit exchanges from offering health plans that provide coverage of abortion or gender transition procedures or drugs for minor children.“it’s time to ban abortion and gender-transition procedures for minors on the healthcare exchanges. no more loopholes,” said senator hawley.the prohibiting abortion & transgender procedures on the exchanges act would: write hyde language directly into the federal coverage terms of health plans, and prohibit exchanges from offering any health plans that provide coverage of abortion, except for in cases of rape or incest, or if the mother’s life is at risk. ... read more hawley sends letter to ameren demanding answers on utility bill increases, data center deals, and power shut-offs wednesday, october 15, 2025 today, u.s. senator josh hawley (r-mo.) sent a letter to ameren corporation president and ceo martin lyons calling out ameren for reportedly pursuing expensive corporate projects while thousands of missourians experience rate hikes and power shut-offs.senator hawley wrote, “families across missouri are struggling to pay their bills. but i am concerned ameren is seeking dramatic rate increases in order to supply massive data centers and industrial users. recent reporting indicates that ameren cut electricity to thousands of missouri households in september while simultaneously pursuing lucrative arrangements with corporate users.” he continued, “​missourians deserve affordable and reliable electricity. they should not be forced to subsidize corporate projects... read more 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 ... » last »