Skip to content
About
Biography
Committee Assignments
For Alabamians
Help With a Federal Agency
Service Academy Nominations
Internship Program
Visiting D.C.
Flag Requests
Newsroom
Videos
Press Releases
In The News
Op-Eds
Priorities
Policy Priorities
Legislative Record
Appropriations Requests
Contact
Share Your Opinion
Scheduling Requests
Newsletter
Office Locations
Home
Icon-x
Facebook-f
Instagram
Youtube
Open Search
Close Search
Open Search
Close Search
Newsroom
Press Releases
ICYMI: U.S. Senator Katie Britt Joins Sunday Morning Futures with Maria Bartiromo on Fox News
November 17, 2025
‘[T]he Democratic Party has lost its way, but Republicans are showing a pathway forward’
WASHINGTON, D.C. —
U.S. Senator Katie Britt (R-Ala.) joined
Sunday Morning Futures
with Maria Bartiromo on Fox News to discuss her role in reopening the government, Republicans’ focus to address affordability, and how Democrats continue to let the radical left run their party.
On her role in negotiations that reopened the government after a historic 43-day shutdown:
“I was back home talking to people, listening to people on the weekends and the effects of this Schumer shutdown were real. It was clear that we saw the Democrats putting partisan politics and poll numbers above the people that they serve… You had people that were furloughed, people that were not obviously receiving a paycheck, were unable to make their mortgage or rent payments or car payments or, you know, childcare. I had people telling me about increases at food banks and the number of clients that were coming there. We heard about Head Starts closing, Maria. These had real consequences for real people.
“And yet Democrats … were demanding that people go without a paycheck so they could score political points, but yet they were still taking one themselves. I think that shows you that this was selfish and that it was centered on all of the wrong things. So for me, it was, how do we get the government back working and how do we make Congress operate in a way that actually achieves results for the American people? Because ultimately, that’s what President Trump wants. He wants to achieve results for the people he serves. That’s what he’s been doing. And the Democrats were trying to thwart that. And we weren’t going to let them do that.”
On how Republicans continue to prioritize bringing down costs for Americans and addressing affordability:
“[W]e’ve already been talking about affordability. You think about the Working Family Tax Cuts (Act), Maria, and all that we delivered for the American people. It was absolutely incredible. So, President Trump had campaigned on securing the border. He did that on day one. We were able to layer in more of that into the One Big Beautiful Bill … We talked about affordability and pushing money back to Americans pockets, whether it was the deductions for seniors … whether it was the child care tax credits that had not been updated, Maria, since Ronald Reagan (was president). President Trump delivered, pushing more of that hard earned money of Americans back into their pockets. We saw that with no tax on tips …
“I think people will ultimately see the results of this package soon, and we’ll continue to keep building on that, looking at affordability of housing and making sure that we’re driving down energy costs and that we’re delivering results for Americans.”
On how Democrats continue to let the radical left wing run their party:
“I think if you look at what happened in the elections … we saw that the Democratic Party, the left wing, is no longer the left wing. It is in the driver’s seat … You’ve got to be crystal clear about who the Democratic Party is. You’ve got a Democratic socialist that’s going to be the mayor of this shining city on the hill in New York City. You look at who they elevated there as attorney general in Virginia, someone who talked about taking the life of an opponent and his children. It’s absolutely disgusting and despicable, Maria. And so I think that the Democratic Party has lost its way, but Republicans are showing a pathway forward.”
You can watch the full segment
here
.
###
Print
Share
Like
Tweet
Prev
Previous Article
Next Article
Next
About
For Alabamians
Newsroom
Priorities
Contact
Icon-x
Facebook-f
Instagram
Youtube
Search