 Yeah, it's great to be flanked by our local assembly member Jim Cooper, my colleague Gerard Hathman, right? I guess two districts out for it, but represents the coast of Northern California. So Jim let me just get back to you for a second. Hey, I'm a left one, Sacramento. I think you're 52 years. You're an uproar for 26 years. Amibera is an amazing commenter. He's a big job for us in Sacramento. And I really want to say thank you guys so much. The Marine Office is always great to have the re-election for top, but without volunteers in our staff, wouldn't be who we are without you. You make a big difference in that. And like I said, even today working in the building, staff makes you volunteers make you. So thank you so much. There's so many things you can be doing today out watching football, minor is on right now, which is out here. And helping this men be elected. He's in a great job for California. And for out row in the Sacramento region, we want to see him back in Congress. So Dr. Barra, I'm most up in respect for you. You'll have near me. We both are open over at the moment, but really just to thank you guys so much. You guys, the difference is making your hard work. Every door you knock on, it's true what makes the engine go. So thank you, thank you for the new for on me and everybody else. And good job. And we can't wait to get it 48 hours to go. And it's a wrap. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're a pleasure. That's now. Jared and I came into Congress together as freshmen in 2012 and we could get a read there. Class of 2012. I am really proud to serve in your congressman, Ami Barra. And you're obviously one of the most critical battleground districts in America. I hope everybody realizes that and the gravity and the energy that should come from that. But the interesting thing is in every key battleground in America right now, really famous important people are getting the campaign trust. So I think last night Tim Kane was campaigning with Bon Jovi and Hillary Clinton was with JZ and Beyonce last night in Ohio. Today she was with LeBron James and here in Ami Barra's district, he's got all of us. So that's exciting. I think. And another thing that's exciting for all of us that kind of have been riding the roller coaster of this crazy election and you know that roller coaster took a crazy plunge with FBI director James Comey about a week ago. In case you haven't heard about an hour ago, Comey wrote a new letter to Congress said basically never mind. No charges, no new investigation. We're back on track. The distraction is gone and we can now work on doing the work that we have to do door door on the phone to bring home this victory. And the only thing I want to say about you and about Ami and about this district is if there's one place in America where you can almost guarantee a photo finish. It's right there. So you hear about these hypothetical races where it's just a few votes per precinct and you know sometimes down to these crazy small margins, you can almost guarantee that in this race. So as all of this head out and start knocking those doors in this final sprint to the finish, just know that every single one of those contexts could be the difference between re-electing on and bear up or a Republican opponent that would obviously be a shameful loss for all of us. So do that with energy, with enthusiasm, with purpose and when you're done today, do ten more doors. When you feel like you're done, when you feel like you're done, just do ten more. And think about it. If every one of you just has ten more, we're going to win by that much more. So let's do it. Let's get it. Let's get it. Let's get it. How many there? A lot of times you're using a good guy to say it. This is what we live for. And this is how we win races. If you think about how we won in 2012, we have the largest grassroots organization in the United States of America. Well, in 2014, when they threw millions of dollars against us and tried to buy this district, what we did was we put together the biggest GOTV program in those last four days, knocked on more doors, made more front calls, turned out voters, so that the morning after the election, we were down 3,000 votes. And folks were calling saying, you know, I'm sorry, we were pulling for you, President Clinton called. It's like Mr. President, wait a minute. We're going to win this thing because I know how hard folks will work in Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, up until 8 o'clock when the polls close on the next day. We were turning our voters and sure enough, when those ballots got counted, we won by 1,455 votes. Now when Jared says every vote counts, every vote counts in close races like this. Well, let me tell you, I looked at the statistics, GOTV started yesterday. We knocked on more doors, maybe about 20% more doors than we did two years ago. So the program is even bigger this year. And we know this is about getting out there. If our voters vote, we're going to win this race. And this is about what our democracy is all about. If you don't vote, you lose your voice. And what we're fighting for is a fair shot for every American, a fair shot for all of you, the young people in this room. That's why it's so important that you guys are out here because this is about your future. Our obligation or our legacy is not what we're going to do in our lives. Our legacy is going to be about how we make your lives better, how we pay it forward. And at the same time, how we honor the obligations we've made to our parents and grandparents that after a lifetime of work, a lifetime of service, that they can have that dignified retirement with Medicare and Social Security, those are the stakes here. And when we look at the values that are at stake in this election, who we are as Americans, our values are one of the qualities of inclusion. We don't build walls that separate folks. We don't have religious tests that say, well, you're American enough, but you're not American enough. That is not who we are. We're a country in what makes us great as a nation is we're this fabric that's woven together of people of different ethnicities, different backgrounds, different cultures, religions, all woven together in this melting pot that is the United States and it works. And it's worked for 200 years. And that's what we're fighting for. That America that we all believe in. And that's what it's stake. Now this morning, I had the chance to go to the church of unity and read the daily word and deliver some words from the pulpit. And what I talked about is our work isn't over at 8 o'clock Tuesday night. Our work starts Wednesday morning. We start to bring this country together. When we start to address the hate and the things that separate us and we start to come together and start to heal with the violence. That's what the selection is about. That's why what you're doing out there is so critical. And then let's work together. Let's go win this thing. And then 8 o'clock Tuesday night, head up to Carmichael for our election night party and let's celebrate. So on three, let's go win. One, two, three. Let's go win. Let's go win. Let's go win. Let's go win. Let's go win. Let's go win. Let's go win. Let's go win. Let's go win. Anybody who's still here, jump in to work photo and then we'll pick you out of here. We'll go pop. One second. Who? Hold on. Over here. Thank you. Thank you. Over here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Awesome. Thanks, guys. And if you have a second.