chairman, chair con, thank you for appearing before this panel today. congressional oversight of the ftc is an important part of the american political process. small and medium-sized businesses are the backbone and rural communities throughout american including florida's second congressional district. these include regional and local grocery stores and convenience stores, which are typically the only source of essential groceries and other consumer goods in many small towns in my district. last year as our nation faced broken supply chains and rising prices, i sent a letter to the ftc asking commission to use its existing authority to study conduct that could violate laws under its purview. my primary concern is when rural stores are taken advantage of in such unstable times. many towns and small rural communities have become food deserts after their local grocery stores were on a business in addition. many of these businesses are family owned and provide the only viable option for individuals who do not have access to adequate transportation and travel to larger chain stores, which may be hours away. the independent small and medium-sized groceries are telling me that big-boxed-star stores are forcing them out of business. so chair con, section 6b of the ftc act empowers the ftc to require companies to respond to questions about business practices. where are you currently in the 6b process on independent groceries and food supply chains and have you formally inquired about monopolistic practices, farming independent and regional groceries? thanks for that question, congressman. i could not agree more that these are especially troubling concerns that we are hearing from independent retailers, especially independent grocers. one six-speed that we launched early in my tenure was to understand whether the supply chain disruptions that we had seen were being exacerbated by asymmetries of power that we may see between the small independent stores and the big chain stores. so my question was, have you actually formally started that 6b process for inquiry? yes, we have. excellent. so last congress, then ranking members rogers and bill rockes, sent a letter to secretary of commerce ramondo. we mentioned that earlier today. requesting secretary work with stakeholders across the federal government to prevent supply chain disruptions throughout americans, especially in rural areas. and have you been working with the department of commerce on that particular effort? i am not sure if we are working with them on this specific issue, but generally, we try to take a whole local government approach to these issues. all right. so i would like to recognize and actually commend the commission's bipartisan may 2021 report called nics, the fix. it was an fdc report to congress regarding restrictions on repairs on various products. the vote was 4 to 0 on that ruling in 2021. this congratsionally directed report highlighted the unsustainable rising cost of vehicle maintenance and repair. and it prompted the need for bill, my bill hr906, the repair act, which seeks to restore consumer choice and competition vehicle repair sector. the nics, the fix report highlights the important ways in which bipartisanship at the ftc can result in positive legislative actions afterwards. so after all, the congress did create the ftc. we are glad that upon passage of that bill, vehicle owners will be able to repair their own property and repair shops can continue operating without fear of being put out of business. unfortunately, bipartisanship does not seem to be the order of the day currently at the ftc. ms. conn, i find it striking at the ftc commission or the commissioner, christine wilson, resigned in protest of your partisan conduct as chair. chairman bill iraqis, i would like to submit this february 14, 2023 wall street journal article why i am resigning as an ftc commissioner for record. without objection, so order. thank you very much. chair, commissioner wilson, skade in review of your agency cited first your violation of due process given your failure to recuse yourself from a meta acquisition case despite clear legal precedent that require you to do so. second, your colleagues and staff's excessive redactions to her written objections and dissent in your ruling in order to protect you. and third, the staggering 49% less than half of the ftc employees recently pulled will leave that senior ftc agency officials maintain high standards of honesty and integrity for comparison in 2020 just prior to your appointment. 87% thought ftc officials had high honesty and integrity standards. so you have an answer to that question, chair conn. thanks, marcus. and i will just say i am incredibly proud of the ftc staff who day after day are on the front lines of protecting americans from unlawful business practices. there is no doubt that early in my tenure, there were things we could have done better or differently. but since then, we have been taking these survey results seriously and taking steps to make sure we are fully understanding what was the source of these declines and identifying what changes we can put in place. my time is expired and i yield back to the chair. i will submit the ring or my questions for anyone who yields back.