so strategic competition with china is one of the defining issues obviously of this congress. and now more than ever we must be focused on understanding and responding. i think each of you for showing up, it is my sincere hope that the congress and the administration can work together to fulfill the mission of the sake of the american people. unfortunately, a number of the policies of this administration have only emboldened the leadership of ccp and i think, speak of mccarthy, he was correct, but he said the danger posed by our dependence on china is dire. we could go on and on about china's growing hold on the u.s. from supply chains and economic dependency fentanyl. but what we need is a course correction. however, today i want to consider one of the very real threats china poses to some of our allies and friends specifically, those in the indo-pacific region, the pacific island nations. the u.s. relationship with the pacific islands was forged 80 years ago when millions of americans left their homes to fight for freedom on the beaches of terroir, pella lune and the jungles of guadalcanal and bougainville. over 100,000 americans sacrificed their lives. and after the war, we mostly withdrew from the region. there were still some u.s. presence. i actually had the privilege of serving the pacific islands as an army surgeon and i provided care many of those nations, meeting those people under those conditions. you get to know them and these are really good people. largely, there is been a posture of neglect. the people we fought alongside have and helped liberate. we have forgotten. well, let us recall we needed access to those islands when we wanted to take the war to japan. and now they are under attack again. a poster. we have our poster. good. the poster just caught up on the screen behind me illustrates how the ccp has infiltrated our friends in the pacific island nations. the countries in red recognize beijing. countries in green recognize taiwan. there used to be a lot more green. if a country recognizes taiwan, that means it does not have a chinese embassy there. as you likely know, these embassy act as hubs and incubators from all-in activities. that is why we closed our houston consulate in 2020. the ccp is counting on the u.s. to remain passive in these countries so that they could take over. the islands are just as valuable strategically to china as they were to imperial japan. the ccp is launching a new kind of attack, mostly on the political warfare front, but the effects on the ground are very, very real. and they include economic dependency and social destruction. this is china's greater new wall, greater wall of china. we are obligated to remember our bonds with the good people of pacific islands to rebuild these bonds and to work with them to defeat the attack on their freedoms, and quite frankly, our strategic interests. secretary clinton break the then president of the federal states of micronesia, david panamelo, released three letters over the last two years that laid out in detail the prc's comprehensive and pernicious political warfare against the federal states of micronesia and other islands as well. mr. chairman, i would like to end those letters into the record. mike. thank you. the letters, by the way, the title of the article letter to company's letters is micronesia's president wright's bombshell letter on china's political warfare, authored by cleopascal and the diplomat. so his letters were a cry for help from us. in his march 23 letter, president panamelo wrote, as a result of aggressive political warfare on his country by beijing, he was in well-advanced negotiations with taipei to switch his country's recognition back to taiwan. this would have been a huge win for the free world, adding people of micronesia, but it did not happen. when you explained to me what the state department did to assist the federal states of micronesia taipei negotiations at that time? congressman, i do not know if i can respond specifically to what happened right at that time, but what i can say is absolutely agree with you about the centrality of our partnerships with our pacific island friends. under this administration, we have dramatically stepped up our game. thanks to support from congress, we are expanding our diplomatic footprint in the region. we have opened new embassies in the solomon islands in tonga. we are working on opening in most time. my time unfortunately, sparrow, i will submit other questions for the record. thank you. i yield back.