so we are going to start now with a fantastic opportunity that we have to talk with congressman dr. neil dunne. so hopefully the technology is going to work and we are going to move so that we can bring congressman neil dunne into the room. there he is. so congressman, thank you so much for joining us today. you are facing on two large theater-style screens in front of this audience. you are facing some of the premier healthcare executives, leaders, advocates, the people who make the healthcare system work here in the state of florida. so that is the audience that you have in front of you. the congressman is a physician from panama city. maybe i should let you introduce yourself here in just a moment. but a district that extends from a little bit less to panama city to tallahassee and a bit south of there, like many congressional districts, it has kind of a strange shape. thank you very much dr. smith. i appreciate your introduction. i appreciate the chance to be with you here today to talk about something that is near and dear to my heart. and that is of course a healthcare policy. and you know, we could not look at that at a different points of view. and that came out in your introduction. you know, you have around the table the doctors, the patients, the insurers, the payers, the pharmaceutical companies, the medical device companies, the governments who are as payers as well as regulators. and then of course, you have the lawyers. and i should say both state and federal. so let us take a look at this total point because it is pretty confusing. in fact, it makes the democrats versus the republicans in congress look easy. and to the fact that everybody thinks they know just exactly what is needed. oh, just a little more money for them. and that adds a lot of confusion to it. so now i am a doctor obviously. so it is easy to pigeonhole me in my attitude and say, you know, and to some extent, i certainly do bring a bias about the doctor patient relationship. but i want you, by the way, the doctor patient relationship, i think, is a concept that is enshrined in u.s. law, both in statute and common law. i want to share this group. i have spent time in most of the seats around the table, for instance, i mean, insurance chair, i sat on the advisory board of cost blue shield for a number of years. we had a very fruitful relationship, honest, mutually beneficial to blue cost blue shield, the doctors and the patients. i also sat on the board of an association health care plant that was very effective at limiting rating increases over the years and provided first class coverage for tens of thousands of families. on the payer side, i have run several companies, my own, i have offered erisa health plans to, to over 900 families at one point. and just in my medical practice, we had 750 families that we were caring for. so i have been the pay-or of this as well. on the pharma and medical device side, i have done both clinical and bench research. that is expensive to do. it is potentially very rewarding in terms of great cures. it is also potential for vast profits, which is a sore that cuts both ways, i think. we have to be careful about that. i had a nuclear medicine company for a while. we have used and distributed at eisos, possible trauma-emitting, tomography type, and so on. then we have the government side of this. and our job is to bring clarity to everyone's roles, responsibilities, and the rewards that they can expect. oh, we do it in a debt, right? that is so good, i dare say. yeah. so let us look at some of the principles that about government involvement in reform of health care. we start with a favorite topic everybody's got today. that is telemedicine. this is a big topic. it is got a great promise to leverage the essence that are in short supply and that are poorly distributed around the country. everybody wants health. everybody wants telemedicine. so who is holding up the train? well remember those lawyers we mentioned that are back at the table? they have this idea. they want the liability, the medical liability, to follow the patient, to run, if you will, with the patient. but states govern medical liability laws, which they should, that is constitutional law. so the simple answer is under the federal interstate commerce laws that we simply pass a law that says that the liability, the medical liability, runs with the state, where the doctor is practicing, where he is licensed, not where the patient is. working against the lawyers here in congress has always been kind of an upto battle. you know, there is like, that is time i looked 112 lawyers in congress. there is about 14 doctors. so proud number. i think though if we established a fundamental rule that the states control where the state of licensure of the medical practice, if we established that rule, the states can move forward with the rules that govern telemedicine. and we need some rules, we need some guard grounds. i think it will be very, very popular, what is set up. on a doctor patient relationship, i had met a little bit old school about this. we were taught medical school, but medicine is a calling. it is a vocation, a sacred relationship between the sick and the healer. that we are supposed to do our level best for every man, woman, and child that comes under our care. and we feel that relationship is undermined by fail first protocols, step therapies, pre-approval of every diagnostic therapeutic test or procedure and prescriptions. and now i would say that the payers and lawyers kind of get together and say without those protocols, it gets cost prohibitive. but the problem is the costs are okay. they are paid to everybody, they are paid to the patients and the doctors, and frankly, even the insurers do to some extent. i mean, so i could deliberate attempt to obfuscate what the costs of things are. i cannot, i believe we absolutely must have, can have, and must have price transparency. i think we can let doctors and patients and employers make their own value judgments. there is no other product or service in the world that is so mysteriously priced as medicine. and i assure you doctors really do not know the typical costs of the procedures, the x-rays, the drugs that they prescribe. and they cannot know that because of the wide variations. i am going to give you two illustrations on that. the first is ct scan. what is it cost all up to do a ct scan for a patient? that is all the overhead, the technician fees, maintenance, yada, everything. what is it cost? well, i had over a dozen ct scanners in my practice, and i would make money on scans for $1,000 or even a little less all day long. that was a profitable price for a ct scanner. i had a ct scan last year in a hospital, and it was $8,000. that is what the insurer paid the hospital. that is not the billing charge. that is what was actually paid to the hospital. that is a bad value. that is not the way it should work. i assure you, if my insurer had not known where they could get that for $1,000, they would send me there, i think. another example, drug cleavage, which is a good drug for a number of leukemias. when it first came out, it is about 42,000 a month. is it slipped down to overtime? we got there about 30,000 now that it is a generic drug. the average cost across america is about $8,000 to $12,000 a month. that is for 400 milligrams once a day. this morning i went online and i priced that drug through two of the generic suppliers. one of them is good rx. most of you know about it. so one month's supply was $113.94. i went through the cost plus drugs.com site. that is mark cuban's new generic medicine site i heard you guys pay attention to that because it is interesting. the cost per month, $47.10 to cents. that is versus an average generic cost in america, $80,000 to $12,000 a month. ladies and gentlemen, i submit to you that we are headed for price transparency. we can do this and there is a big wish for it. people are going to insist on this. they are not going to pay those kind of prices anymore. we are also working very hard at the government level to repatriate our supply chains. we have all talked about our dependence on china. we know it is toxic. we know we have got to get away from this. it is across all industries. the first one we focused on is pharmaceuticals. the government did in the cares act and rescued at put billions of dollars into api active pharmaceutical breeding plants and generic drugs. that is happening now. we incentivize, manufacture, and america and in the free world. we realize that america does not have the wherewithal to manufacture and distribute all of our drugs, but we want to have reliable sources of drugs in the free world. that is to say among our allies, we can trust you, not a little rug out from underneath this. we cannot do it alone. they are just are not enough scientists and engineers in america to hold us. this is actually a focus of nato. i sit on the parliament of nato and i can tell you that we sit around and talk about pharmaceutical supply chains and the importance of that to national security of the nato alliance. and by the way, many other things as well, everybody's first focus. i feel we are making headway there. finally, i guess i want to say that i think something we need to do is to restore faith in public health. one of the casualties of this pandemic, certainly we had a lot of casualties. the death toll is now estimated at 15 million people worldwide and millions more will have long-term sequelae. but perhaps the most lasting threat is the loss of faith in our public health systems. and that occurred by poor messaging and an unwillingness to change the message when the information changed. i think people can trust. they will trust if you say, hey, we have got new information. we have new advice. we really did not do that. so we ended up pushing some untrue messaging. and that really undermines a lot of people's faith in government. a lockdowns that we pursued, nobody i know has shown any evidence that they actually had any benefit on the disease. and they crushed economies around the world. the estimated damage to the free world's economies, please notice, i am just dealing with the free world here, is 100 trillion with a t, trillion dollars. you know, our children, our great grandchildren, will be suffering from this damage economically. so we simply cannot do this again. we have to face it. we have to face that with each other. i think we need transparent and honest, old leadership and medicine. and i think we have to be humble enough to admit when we have made an error and changed course. so those are sort of the major things that i think right now are on our plate there. we obviously have a lot of smaller laws. we are nibbling at the edges of. we have a very divided congress right now. it is very thinly divided. and so you can only take little bites around the edges, but i would like to think that we can reach some consensus and make some bold leadership changes. dr. smith has asked me to leave some time for comments and questions. and by the way, i am happy to have your comments and your ideas. so you do not have to just ask questions. you can tell me what you think. and dr. smith, i will turn that over again. well, that is fantastic. what a great start. so we will just make sure that people in the audience know that in a moment we are going to be going to questions so that we can take congressmen up on his offer so that you can have a chance to ask a question. dr. smith, maybe just me, but you are breaking up a little bit. you are breaking up on your microphone. ok, i will speak a little closer. is that better? i hope so. so i am wondering if we could maybe talk a little bit about some of the mental health issues. the integration of mental health and physical health has become an issue for sure. this is an issue that you have spoken of. i noticed a tweet during mental health awareness week. you tweeted, i thought this was terrific. we want to remind you that you are enough. you are valid. you are strong. you are kind. what a terrific tweet during mental health awareness week. i wonder if you can speak a little bit more about that. i know after hurricane michael, that was a big issue in your area among school children and others. and veterans health also is a place where that comes into play. you say a little bit about that? yes. so mental health is a lot of static. yeah, we are not hearing static here. so i am sorry that it is on your end. ok, let me just go ahead. so the mental health, i think the principal damage we could during the pandemic was to kid. you know, our kids desperately need to have more confidence in the genetic confidence from the air from their teachers, from the people who lead them during their life. and they saw a lot of fear, a lot of uncertainty. and that really left the kids doing poorly and actually reflected in the attempted suicide and suicide levels and driving these levels that are showing up in the emergency room. we really know fully need to pay more attention to our kids. now the adult suicide went up as well, but only fraction as much like 5 or 6% versus 50% for kids. this is a dramatic rise. i want even father to talk about the drug problems with fentanyl. fettanyl is the number one cause of death for americans, age 18 to 45. that means if you are playing with drugs, then you never know if the drug is a waste fentanyl or a risk to life. so, the mental health is a big deal. we think we can leverage telehealth in the mental health field, but we really need to get off our art here and start moving that out to the states where they could make a difference. there are issues around veterans health. you have a tendle air force base there in your district. i know we have a place on panama city beach and we see the aircraft flying close by while we are there. but veterans health has been a focus of yours. can you say a little bit about that? yes, i was formerly the chair of veterans health subcommittee. yeah, and obviously veteran myself has been a long time in and multi-generation veteran families. very close to my heart, veterans health issues. they are much more closely akin to the ptsd and the traumatic brain injury type problems. war is rough and we deserve to help each other with these issues. i think we can, honestly, i think we have some very, very good ways to address all of those problems. i think that we are beginning to codify that in the va system. we made a lot of headway with that when i was on that program and i know we will continue to do that. there are really good structural ways to address ptsd and depression and veterans. one of the best things i will have to say is i am vietnam was my era. it was tough to come home and not be liked. we treat our veterans a lot better now that we used to. the bhb proud. i have one more question and then if you can raise your hand out there and they will bring a mic to you so the congressman can hear your question as you ask it. congressman, you serve on the energy and commerce committee which is the key committee for medicare and medicaid. you are on the health subcommittee on that. can you tell us a little bit about the key issues that are before the energy and commerce committee and the health subcommittee as they relate to medicare and medicaid? that is a great question. back to when i jump off this conference i am going into a committee meeting to mark up a series of health care bills in e&c. i think you find they are interesting. they are the ones we nibble around the sides so we are looking at things about rear-embracement issues and the servicing issues or medical defices and some things that actually we would have to call it nibbling around the edges of medicine rather than the old changes we would like to see. you make your headway where you can when you are in the committee. you have to do things that you can get 218 votes for and getting 218 to get counting to 218 turns out to be kind of a tricky thing to do here at congress. but i think it would be pleased with the bipartisan array of bills. we will probably talk about a 17 bills today and i expect fully 15 of them to get out of the committee. very good. who has a question here? it is a little hard for me to see in the lights. who has the first question? i see it. okay. congressman, thank you for joining us. i am actually one of your constituents from the panhandle. so thank you for being here. thank you. i wanted to ask about the end of the public health emergency. so we had a major deadline pass this week where we thought we might get 60 days notice that the public health emergency was ending which has major implications for medicaid continuous coverage. so do you have any thoughts or are you hearing anything about how long we think the public health emergency might continue past july? so we try to take that. go ahead. no, go ahead, congressman. so we try to take it up to days, no matter if fact, and we could not get consensus on it. obviously, we would like to be that. i think need that kind of surety. i mean, people cannot plan no business and can plan if he has shifting sands under his feet. that goes for hospitals and clinics as well. so we would really like to make that kind of forward looking plan available there. but we seem to get stuck on what we call the christmas tree phenomena where people keep hanging ornaments on the bill, ways itself down, and you cannot get across the finish line. but i think that'll come. i think that'll come just not today. okay. thank you. who has the next question here? is there another question? while someone's gaining the courage to raise their hand, i must say, congressman, you know, i come from a quicker tradition. i am perfectly comfortable with the silence in the room. so we will, we will, so is there a question here i have one? so i am wondering if you could look into the future, congressman dunn. you know, we have an election coming up. what are the issues that are going to be most important in the next congress? so i think i think people feel most right now is economic. that is the personal pain they feel. but everybody has always been looking at healthcare coverage. you know, that is a perennial subject. we thought we were going to take care of that when i came up here six years ago. and we came, well, pretty close, we thought. but we did, we obviously did not make the consensus. so it is a harder thing than you think to find consensus on healthcare. should not be, should not be because we all want good things for the patients. i think what we do is we just agree about, you know, who is going to actually do those things. if we get price transparency and that is where we are working towards, everybody can make better value judgments. and i really think that that is a key, key, key element moving forward because we can have affordable good healthcare and we can do it with the market based system. but we have to be able to see the prices. and then we also have to be able to measure the value in transparent ways. but we can do that. i think the harder thing is the prices. nobody, i mean, how many doctors out there, how they actually know what a ct scan cost, almost none, almost none. and yet we all want to do ct scans because we need. so price transparency is a huge step forward. you know, when we talk about prices, a lot of people think first of the cost of prescription drugs. what can be done maybe from the federal level, maybe from the state level to address the cost of prescription drugs that i am really excited that you see a way to do this is the generic drugs. so let us be honest, because we moved about 80% of prescriptions to generic drugs now. and that was a huge savings across the country. cms they have untold amount of money on that. now if we can take the generic drugs and make those prices transparent, then i think we do very well. i mentioned earlier the cost plus drugs dot com, which is a new effort. it is been put out by this guy mark cuban who owns the basketball team. so controversy, right? but he committed to acquiring or manufacturing drugs and charging 15% over what he cost. just simple. and he is just opened this up. i have been working with the ceo of that company very, very impressed with how they brought the price of generic drugs down from where they were. so i would tell you across the board that the cost of their drugs runs about 10 to 15% of the typical generic cost. so it is not just generic, it is generic now at a good value. all of a sudden that is value price and that is transparency. it is a brand new effort. i think others are going to join in behind that. i think it is going to be a great thing for the cost of medicine america. you still have the brand new innovative drugs. they are very expensive. they are expensive to develop. maybe we could streamline the fda process a little bit to help that cost come back down. but that is an inherently very expensive project, which is why it is difficult to find a lot of these innovative drugs in other countries around the world. they simply will not pay that money to have those drugs available in other first world countries. so probably 40% of the drugs that are available in america are not available in europe simply because of the cost of these new innovative biologics and things like that. so one of the expensive drugs that is recently developed and on the market is the alzheimer drug. do you have any thoughts about that and its availability and the fda approval process for that drug? so the alzheimer drug market is an interesting market. it is a busy market. there are probably 30 or 40 drugs that are under investigation, probably four or five that are close to approval. one that has gotten across the finish line with fda approval, but the approval was frankly because it was handled in a way that was very not unnormal. so i mean, it went beyond was a committee of scientists who looked at the drug and it was 12 members of the committee. 11 voted against approving the drug, one abstained and the fda director approved the drug. so you have this drug that has a kind of a tainted history as it goes through the approval process. and so in response, when cms, this is the people who actually buy the drug now, right, typically we always think that if the drug is approved by fda, cms is going to pay for it. that is the kind of rule of thumb. it is not a rule of law, it is a rule of thumb. so then cms says, well, okay, we are going to pay for this drug only if you join an experiment and have 100% reporting on your use of the drug and adverse reactions, et cetera. so they actually created another experimental model. now that is not what cms is designed to do. cms is designed to pay for drugs and distribute drugs. fda is the one that is supposed to approve drugs. so we confused the issue enormously by the process that the fda used on this drug. i would hope that in the future, what we do is we see the fda give conditional approval rather than cms say conditional coverage of a drug. and so, you know, as you help suffered from it, what was, i would argue a poorly thought out process in government in the fda, honestly. and that that taints the process. they should be able to say, okay, it is approved, it is not approved, or it is conditionally approved. and under these conditions, because they raised a lot of hopes for people who, you know, if you have a family member with alzheimer's, you know how sad and difficult this is. but that is not the only condition to treat it. and also treated down syndrome, treated traumatic brain injury. i mean, there is a lot of things out there that we sort of snatch the rug out from underneath those people. that does not let confidence in the government's public health efforts. so one of the proposals which seems to be gaining some momentum is for medicare to be able to negotiate drug prices. that is something that is not ever happened before. what would you comment on that proposal? well, so the easiest area, you know, medicare actually sets the price on these new medicines. so that is something that is negotiated between cms and the company that is innovating the drug on the front end. and that is a process that was fairly complex and nuanced in and of itself. but the idea is they look at what is it saving and what cost has the company come up with. the real promise for negotiating drugs with cms is when they go to the market and negotiate for generic drugs. if 80% of the drugs that cms are paying for are generic drugs, all they have to do is find a good reliable source of generic drugs with good substrates, right, making good high quality medicine and then make a deal with them. and i would argue that those prices are coming down, tummoing down rapidly right now. so that is where you want cms to really start saving money. and they can. they can save a lot of money. so did we have a question here? we have a comment here, but we need to have a microphone right over here. and here's the microphone. yes, go ahead. thank you, dr. smith. congressman, an honor to have you here today. and thank you for inviting us to make comments and not just questions. my name is jennifer sweet. i am the ceo of etna better health of florida. we are a medicaid managed care plan. my comment is to thank you, first of all, for starting your discussion today about the crisis and mental health. and i want to point out that our data completely supports the headlines in a most alarming way. we have, for example, 50% of our behavioral, critical behavioral diagnoses falling to children between the age of five and 13. and of those, 27% aligned to suicide ideation. this is a crisis. we have a hard time reaching these members and helping them. we have a dearth of providers available to help them. we have not enough funding, for example, to support programs where we could deliver services in schools. and so my comment to you would be to please take that knowledge forward as you go to committee meetings and talk about medicaid and the potential opportunities to really think about the headlines as children in distress. and there are very real things we can do. we are all standing by to help you with ideas and programs and anything we can to support getting help to these children. thank you. thank you very much, jennifer. and you actually said something that i think is key. what do you engage kids the most in the answer to schools? i mean, that is where we get almost all of them, you know, five days a week. we have got to get them in the school and then we have got to also engage them there at the school. it is the logical place where we can engage these kids because they do have suicidal ideation. it is at an all time high. and you know, we just have to go to where the kids are, i think, to reach out to them. and i do not know the right program yet, but i am pretty darn sure that is where we are going to find those kids. yeah. yeah. thank you, jennifer. thank you, congressman. that is such an important issue. we will be talking about that later today. another question. do we have another hand? hello. hello. my name is mario gonzalez. and congressman dunne, thank you so very much for being here with us this morning. i work for aqua germanology and represent not only the germanologists in terms of provider groups and physicians, but having been in health care for quite some time. there is a lot of provider groups across a lot of specialties that struggle with this. and i know that you had mentioned reimbursement as being on main topic. and obviously, expansion into medicaid is one of the things that the physicians constantly struggle with and obviously on the reimbursement side. certainly the state acknowledged that several years ago as they brought medicaid for pediatric patients up to parity, up to 100% of medicare. and i am wondering from a federal level, is there any initiatives that are occurring that would bring medicare parity for medicaid recipients from a reimbursement standpoint? so that is a mixture of state and federal law there. let me say that the federal law we have, we have been living for decades now under this sustainable growth formula that is, you know, is out of date. we have pretended that the medicine can be budget neutral and not increase any pay. at the same time, we have looked at inflation for everything else across the economy. so i know that the doctors, you know this too. you said you have been into this for years. you know, the used to be doctors went out and they worked for themselves or for their patients, if you will. the patients paid them, the insurance companies paid them directly. now 76% of american doctors are working for somebody else, an employer or a hospital system, a clinic, somebody else is paying them, not the patients. so they are, you know, they are dissociated from that pay. and it is a reason it is very simple. cannot make a living. cannot make a living. so only the people, only the systems that actually have a large enough captured population to negotiate income reimbursement can actually make a living doing that. every kid coming out of ike should say, get every doctor coming out of residency today is going to go to a hospital or a really large clinical practice, one of these, and a lot often, at least partly owned by private equity, somebody who can, who can make deals for them. we have to have a fair reimbursement for it. or you are never going to have doctors that are going to be working for their patients. and that was a patient doctor relationship i mentioned earlier, you know, it is important that the doctors actually feel like the patient is the most important thing in the relationship and there are well-being. and if we are taking orders from somebody on what we can do, what we cannot do in every single minute situation, i am not sure you are arriving at the right answers for them, but in fact, i am sure we are not. so i think we need to update or jump the sustainable growth formula. you know, realize that inflation has hit medicine as well as everything else. and let us start to re-examining what we are paying. we have to save money in medicine, but i do not think saving money by driving doctors into the arms of employers is a good way to do that. i think we can address it on the pharmaceutical side. i think we can address it on a lot of diagnostic sides. i mentioned my cat scan. what does that make sense? value value as cost transparency. thank you. i think we have time for another question. i mean, just one, because i have a 10 of the clock committee meeting. exactly. and we do as well. is there one last question? let me finish with this, congressman. what else would you say to us about the key issues in health care now? cost seems to rise to the top quality, access, value. where would you put all of those and where should we be going into the future? let us finish with that. so that, you know, that is a balance. right. the value, the cost, and you know, you do not be easy to spend all the money in the world on every single patient up, but you cannot do that, right? you can give a good value based equation, but you know the best way to do that has always been let the patients make their own value judgments. and they cannot do that if they cannot see the price. now, the other thing i need to see is an honest assessment of how good their care is. and you know, we do that with advertising and reputation and most of it by word of mouth. we count on most, so i was a specialist, right? what do i count on? i count on the opinions of the primary care doctors as to am i a good specialist. and you know, if i do not impress my colleagues with my quality of care, then they are not going to send their patients to me. and that is always been the system we relied on. i think it was a pretty good system. now if we have patients who are captive in systems, they can only go in that is inside of a system. and i appreciate it when a doctor tells me, hey, listen, i could do your knee, but i am not as good at your knee as this fellow over here is doing knees. why do not you go see him? i think that is a great doctor, he is honest. i like that. and of course we do subspecialize. and that subspecialization makes people better at it. and that is true across the board. pediatric mental health is different than adult mental health. there is different than veteran mental health. so i would like to see, i would like to see as a return to a little more professional referral program and actually pay people for what they are worth. that is a terrific place for us to finish up today. first, we cannot tell you how much we thank you for being with us today. you are so generous with your time and we really appreciate you taking the time to share with us today. so thank you. let us get around to applause to congressman dr. neal duh. thank you, sir. thank you. appreciate you. god bless you. thank you.