the general lady yields the chair recognizes the gentleman from florida, dr. dunn, for five minutes of questions. thank you very much mr. chair. as a doctor, he pains me to read about the code patient. it could touch him while being prepared for donation obviously, woke up and thrashed him around and felt terrified. fortunately, one of the doctors performing a pre-dotation procedure expressed as discomfort. but the opo who is present to actually disagree with him shot him down to say, the opa's staffer notes indicate he was accusing him of euthanasia. embarrassingly, on the honor walk for this patient, the patient was regaining consciousness and when he brought the operator, he was actually curled up at a ball. his knees on his chest. thank goodness for the doctor and the operator. this is a story that seems to be more fitting for a movie than a congressional hearing, frankly. mr. massey, here's the ceo of network for hope. less than a year ago, you merged with coda in what capacity does the former ceo of coda serve in your organization? the former ceo of kentucky organitarian affiliates currently serves as our coo. we made several changes in the executive. so, and you have other coda organ operation staff, perhaps surgeons still with you? they are, but not in their same role. everybody within the executive team took a much more focus on the company. i am trying to concern that anyone involved in this misconduct is continuing to work with you in the field, frankly. as a medical doctor, i find the recent increase in donations after circulatory death, as opposed to brain death, particularly concerning. we always use brain death as a criteria when i was in the business. and very death confirmed by multiple physicians. concerned of the current safeguards in the dcd process is simply not enough to secure patient safety. dr. mcbride, i am under the impression that you know this place are all with encouraging patient organ procurement, through the dcd type recovers us a circulatory death. and i want mr. chairman, i would offer into record two articles. the first says, 26 opas joined new you-nose lead collaborative to increase dcd donor recoveries. and that one stated 21, april of 21. and the second one is you know this using collaborative improvement model to increase dcd long trips plantation. i ask unanimous consent to have these placed into the record. so ordered. thank you. i obtained these by the way through the wayback machine because they are no longer on your website. they have been taken down. it is suggested that there was a reason you took them down. what is their doctor me? thank you for the question, congressman. those reports refer to a collaborative work project that was done under the direction of hrsa and in partnership with the optn. okay, so i am going to just be claiming my time because we are running out. you know last year's hearing on this subcommittee after that the association of your corbin, like organ procurement, or pen the letter openly criticizing this congressional committee for advancing false misleading and unsupported allocations after reviewing and hearing all the data here today. do you still agree with that? congressman, i disagree with the way that letter has been characterized. i believe the letter actually called for an open conversation with congress, with experts in the organ donation. let me just say i think it is disturbing to me that anyone would consider the congressional oversight, which is one of our jobs, is somehow damaging to public trust. a congressional oversight does not harm public trust. what happens to public trust gets harmed when our trusted partners in organ procurement district guide process and put patience in danger. several of you lectured today on the importance of transplant surgery and transplant donors. i promise you we understand the importance of transplantation. doctors and laypeople in congress alike, but it is not right, it is not moral, it is not ethical to kill a patient who can potentially live and take their organ. and if america fears that your opo is doing that, you are going to lose your pool of donors. simply, america should be confident that you are performing your own oversight and we are too. i commit that we will continue to provide oversight and we will do everything in our power to make sure that bad actors in this field do not continue to behave this way. thank you. are you gentlemen?