well, here at ewtn news nightly, we are profiling recently elected catholic congressman and up next florida representative neil dunn. congressman dunn, welcome to ewtn news nightly. thank you very much. it is great to be with you. in the wee hours of the morning, congress took the first step toward repealing obamacare and the hope is that defunding planned parenthood will be part of that process. talking forward, what else does congress need to do to support life? well, let me say that we have been assured that the defunding of planned parenthood will be a part of that process. it is near and dear to the hearts of the entire caucus. so we will be certain that that is in there. there is a lot of work to be done to repeal that and replace it, but we are ready for that. we have a plan for that. it is going to be a smooth transition. there will not be any gaps in coverage. there is going to be... nobody is going to lose their coverage or their care, whether they are just paying for coverage or in the middle of cancer treatments. everybody is going to have a smooth transition. you are a physician and a military veteran and now a new member of the veterans affairs committee. donald trump has nominated david shulkin, a current veterans administration official to be secretary. what needs to happen to fix the va? the veterans administration, i have dealt with it. i have actually served in it as a military physician. we took care of an awful lot of those patients. still took care of a lot of those patients in private practice, but that is a system that really needs to be fixed. i think the first thing we do is we provide the veterans with more choices for their care. and what does that mean? well, so they do not have to go to a veterans administration hospital or clinic to get their care. they get their primary care where they live, as opposed to 90 or more miles away someplace, which often happens now, then that just has to provide better care. more continuity of care, too. if they see the same doctor, the same clinic, people who understand and develop a relationship with the patient. how would that work? the money from the veterans administration must follow the veteran. so if he gets treated locally by a physician, then that money follows him. he chooses to go to the veterans hospital. fine, because to the veterans hospital, let us look at the veterans guide us on the pathway to what is the best source of care for them. and before we let you go, as we are asking all of our new catholic congressmen, how will your faith define your service? well, so i have been, i am catholic. i have been all my life catholic, and that means i am pro-life, and i am pro-life all my life, too, not just for the campaign. and i think that that is a definition. we have seen a real effort to secularize government and secularize our laws. but when we look back historically at the constitution and how our government was founded, i think as you will see that there was a great deal of faith in the divine providence that oversaw the birth of america. and i think that is an integral part of our heritage. representative neal dunn, thank you so much for joining us, a republican from florida. thanks very much. i look forward to seeing you.