Transcript of JD Vance’s speech, “Challenges at Home,” at Teneo Network conference, 
September 2021
 
JD VANCE: I guess I'll throw out the standard campaign speech. It's one of the crazy things 
about running for oCice is you give the same speech many, many times, and actually just 
try to level with you guys about what I do see is the big — a few big problems that are in our 
country right now. And I'll talk a little bit about more, or some of them in greater detail, but I 
only have about 10 minutes. So, I don't want to take up too much time. 
So, first is, look, I think that for all of us, we're all part of the conservative movement in one 
form or another. I think we're leaders in business, in politics, in government and 
bureaucracy. Wherever we actually find ourselves working, this is our movement. 
And one of the very brute facts that we all have to confront is that we have lost every 
institution in American society. This is the first big challenge. 
So, if you look at, for example, the list of the Fortune 10 CEOs in 1990, I believe every single 
one of them was a Republican, a Republican donor, at least mildly aCiliated with the right. 
And in 2021, if you look at that same list of people, it's a diCerent group of people. And I 
think every single one of them is a major Democrat donor. 
So, we've not just lost the academy, which we've lost for a long time; we haven't just lost 
the media, which has been on the side of the left for a long time; we now find ourselves in a 
situation where our biggest multinational corporations are active participants in the culture 
war on the other side. I believe Vivek Ramaswamy, a friend of mine from law school, 
actually is going to be here later. And I think Vivek has written the most comprehensive set
of — the most comprehensive statement about the fusion between socially progressive 
ideology and our big corporations. So, I won't talk too much about this. I think all of you, if 
you can, should listen to him, him speak about it. 
Because, you know, for a long time, I'd like to say a lot of us have been talking about this 
problem. But it's really been a few of us over the past few years who have recognized that 
the big corporations have really turned against conservatives in a very big and powerful 
way. And we see this in a number of diCerent ways. 
One is recently this Texas abortion law. Okay, Texas tries to pass a law that protects the 
right of the born to live their lives. And set aside the legal technicalities about whether that 
law is ultimately going to survive legal challenges. I don't know; I went to law school, but I 
went to Yale Law School so I'm not a very good lawyer. But the fundamental problem 
revealed itself because virtually every major big corporation in this country felt the need to 
issue a statement in support of not the unborn babies, but in support of people who might 
want to abort them. A few major corporations actually put a lot of money behind the eCort 
to make it easier to achieve an abortion. And the one CEO that I'm aware of, a medium-
    
sized tech company who actually spoke up on behalf of the unborn, was fired three days 
later after he issued a statement. 
If we're unwilling to make companies that are taking the side of the left in the culture wars 
feel real economic pain, then we're not serious about winning the culture war. And ,that is, 
that is challenge number one.
So, challenge number two is just basic truth-telling. We live in a society that is terrified to 
tell the truth. And it takes a number of diCerent forms. On the left, people are terrified to 
actually point out the obvious — that men and women are diCerent, that they want diCerent 
things at least as an average matter, and that there are real biological, cultural, religious, 
spiritual distinctions between men and women. I think that's what the whole transgender 
thing is about, is like fundamentally denying basic reality. That's a problem, that you can't 
speak the truth. 
But it actually takes a diCerent form on the right, which is, I think, those of us in this room, 
especially people who have been trained in conservative institutions as part of the 
conservative movement, we've like lost our ability to even think about some of the big 
challenges. Because, you know, we sort of want to speak in this like politician or 
bureaucratic gobbledygook, instead of being very honest about what's really going on. 
So like a couple of examples of this. Recently, of course, we have this terrible disaster in 
Afghanistan. And I understand that I myself have participated in this movement to blame 
the Biden administration for the terrible chaos in Afghanistan. But too few conservatives 
are willing to admit or even acknowledge that, three months ago, it wasn't just Biden. It was 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of StaC. It was some of our military leaders that were 
talking about white rage in the military, the terrible scourge of white rage in the military, 
even as they were presiding over a massive disaster in Afghanistan. 
I served in the Marine Corps. I was an enlisted guy and so I didn't talk to the top-level brass 
that often. But one of the most consistent things you would hear when you met like a real 
Marines-Marine colonel, when you met a guy that the troops, the enlisted guys, really loved 
is people would say, "Well, he'll never become a four-star because he's not political 
enough." 
Well, why is our bureaucracy so broken that some of our best military leaders are actually 
prevented from becoming four-star generals instead of encouraged to become four-star 
generals? There is something broken, not just about the Biden administration's foreign 
policy — yes, it is broken; yes, we should talk about it — but the entire Pentagon 
bureaucracy is itself broken. 
I talked to a doctor at Ohio — I'm running for Senate, so I talk to a lot of people in Ohio 
— and I talked to a doctor a few weeks ago, who is terrified that if he speaks out against 
gender reassignment therapies at his hospital, he's gonna get fired. Right? 
    
Speaking the truth, saying the obvious things, is really important in this moment, and we all 
have to do that. We have to do it in our businesses, in our personal lives. Just being honest. 
Don't fall for the consultant lines. Don't fall for the gobbledygook. Actually just speak in 
direct truth. We have a society that's terrified of it. And that's why we need more people to 
actually do it. 
The third challenge I want to talk about is we're horrified in this country. And I see it on both 
the left and the right. We're horrified of unconventional people who say and believe 
unconventional things. I got myself into a little hot water last week, because I made what 
seemed to me a plainly obvious observation that Alex Jones, the Infowars guy, is a better 
source of information than Rachel Maddow, the MSNBC gal. 
Now, some people said, ‘Well, JD, you're just trolling.’ Well, yeah, of course, I was just 
trolling. But that doesn't mean what I said is in any way untrue. Look, I think there's a not 
terrible chance that one of you is going to be sharing cellblock 12A in Premier Harris's 
prison detention camp in a few years. If we're going to all end up in that place, we might as 
well have a little fun while we get there. It's okay to troll when you when you make and 
speak fundamental truths. But look, I do think that — I do think what I said was correct. 
Yeah, I was trolling; I was also speaking a truth. 
Because look, if you listen to Rachel Maddow every night, the basic worldview that you 
have, is that MAGA grandmas who have family dinners on Sunday and bake apple pies for 
their family are about to start a violent insurrection against this country. But if you listen to 
Alex Jones every day, you would believe that a transnational financial elite controls things in 
our country, that they hate our society, and oh, by the way, a lot of them are probably sex 
perverts too. Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that's actually a hell of a lot more true than 
Rachel Maddow's view of society. 
But then the second criticism that I get is, well, he's a crazy conspiracist, right? He doesn't 
believe that 9/11 actually happened or he believed 9/11 was an inside job. And look, I 
understand this desire to not be called terrible names. It's like, yeah, okay, this person 
believes crazy things. But I bet if you're being honest with yourself, every single person in 
this room believes at least something that's a little crazy, right? I believe the devil is real and 
that he works terrible things in our society. That's a crazy conspiracy theory to a lot of very 
well-educated people in this country right now. Even though, of course, they participate in 
it without knowing about it. But that's a separate, a separate matter.
But ladies and gentlemen, the most important truths often come from people who are 
crazy 60% of the time, but they're right 40% of time. I don't know Elon Musk very well. I 
know him a little bit. I've had a couple of private conversations with him. Elon Musk 
believes some crazy stuC. I'm very close friends with Peter Thiel. I think Peter Thiel is one of 
the most important sources of non-conventional truth in our society. Peter Thiel believes 
some things that are considered crazy by opinion makers. We have to get away from this 
    
weird tension that we feel in our chest when somebody says, “This person believes 
something crazy. Therefore, you must denounce them.”
One of the weirdest things that happened — I'm in Ohio. It's funny, because I think we're in 
her district right now. But I'm regularly asked by donors in Ohio whether I'd be willing to 
denounce MTG, Marjorie Taylor Greene, the congressman from if not this part of Georgia, at 
least close to close by. And I say, “Why? Why do you want me to denounce this person?”
“Well, she believes these crazy things.”“Who cares?”
Believing crazy things is not the mark of whether somebody should be rejected. Believing 
important truths should be the mark of whether we accept somebody, and if they believe 
some crazy things on the side, that's fine. We need to be okay with non-conventional 
people. This is a big problem for you in this room. 
This is the last point that I'll make. We are trained among elite circles. If you go to elite 
institutions, if you study at elite places, we are trained to reject anything that falls out of a 
very narrow Overton window. But if we've just learned anything in the last year and a half, I 
mean, a year ago, it was a pretty crazy truth the idea that maybe the coronavirus came from 
a Wuhan lab, not from like some random dude’s bat soup, right? Turns out that was 
probably true. 
A lot of the things that are ultimately gonna get revealed as truths are going to be advocated 
originally by crazy people. Doesn't mean you have to be best friends with them. Doesn't 
mean you have to defend their craziest views. But by all means, if this movement is going to 
survive, we need to speak for truth. And that means standing up for non-conventional 
people, even when they sometimes say things that we disagree with. 
The final point that I'll make is, look, we have very real challenges in this country. And it's 
easy to get pessimistic about what's going on. It's easy to feel a certain lack of hope about 
the future. But if this movement is going to survive, it's going to require leaders like the type 
of people who exist in this room. And so, I thank you all for being here. I thank you all for 
having me. 
And importantly, the last, and very final, actual final point that I'll leave you with, is that we 
are part of a movement. Okay? Many of you in this room either currently do or will sit at the 
head of the movement. You'll serve in the organizations and the think tanks and the 
businesses and the governments that actually enact the policy of this movement. 
But don't forget that there are a lot of people out there who may not agree with us on every 
issue. Who may not agree with you on every issue. Who may not always talk the way that 
you talk about issues, but they are part of our movement. Right after the 2008 financial 
crisis, I saw a poll that a large segment of the Democratic base believed that [makes air 
quotes] the Jews caused the financial crisis. The media did not demand that the leaders of 
    
the Democratic Party reject every single member of the Democratic base because a lot of 
them believed the Jews caused the financial crisis. 
Don't take the bait that disconnects us from our own voters and our own people. Just 
because you don't always agree with them, just because they don't talk the way that you 
talk, they are our people. And if this movement exists for any reason, it's to defend them, to 
advance their interest, and to make it sure that they can live a good life in this country too. 
Thank you.
EVAN BAEHR, TENEO PRESIDENT:
My big takeaway, you can be a truth teller and a troll. That's awesome.
VANCE:
You have to be.
BAEHR:
We've got a quick little chat here. I want to dive right into something that might be a little bit 
hard. I want to read a passage from an article and how do you kind of respond to —
VANCE:
Oh God.
BAEHR:
You guys may have seen this. This morning is about "in the arena" guys. And we talked 
about last night when you're in the arena, it's in some cases literal, some cases 
metaphorical blood and sweat. How about this blood and sweat? This is a passage, guys, 
millions of people read this. Opening paragraph: "What do we call a man who turns on 
everything he once claimed to believe? For a practitioner of petty and self-serving duplicity, 
we use sell-out or backstabber. For grand betrayals of weightier loyalties, country and faith, 
we invoke the moral, the more solemn terms of traitor or apostate." 
That's the opening paragraph, The Atlantic, two months ago, Tom Nichols, on a piece called 
"The Moral Collapse of JD Vance." Take us to where did you first learn about that article and 
just talk about that. People have said crazy things about you. What is it like that to read stuC 
like that?
VANCE:
Yeah, well, first of all, a lot of it I don't read. And one of the, when I was thinking about 
running for Senate, one of the first people that I actually had my wife talked to was Tucker 
Carlson. Tucker, I think, is one of the most important leaders in our movement. And one of 
the things that Tucker told my wife is "If you read everything that they write about him, and 
you try to assume that it's in good faith, it's going to destroy your life." 
    
And if that's true for my wife, and it's definitely true for me, right. And so, I certainly heard 
about that article, because so many people have shared it. And if I hadn't heard about it, I 
guess you just told me about it right now. 
BAEHR:
Sorry, sorry. 
VANCE:
But I guess that, you know, the thing that bothers me about this is, look, I've clearly — I 
changed my mind on things, right? And I changed my mind on Donald Trump. I did not like 
Donald Trump in 2016. I pretty enthusiastically supported him in 2020, both with my vote 
but also going out on there on TV and defending certain parts of his policy agenda. 
And I think that what is true about Tom Nichols, and true about a lot of anti-Trump 
conservatives or liberals and their criticism of me, is that it's not oCered in good faith. They 
don't actually care about the arguments that I'm making. They don't actually care if I maybe 
really did change my mind. They don't care about the fact that, you know, if you paid 
attention what I was saying three years ago, it's pretty obvious where I was coming down on 
a lot of these things. They just see it as opportunity to deploy a powerful argument against 
the political enemy. 
And I unfortunately think there's something to learn about this. I don't think that we want to 
take all of the bait of the left or follow their tactics all the time. But I think about this a lot 
with the accusation of racism that gets thrown around Obviously, racism is out there and 
it's bad. I really don't like judging people based on the color of their skin. I think we should 
reject it. But if you look at how frequently progressives deploy the term racist against just 
normal conservatives, right, you start to realize they don't give a damn about minorities or 
ethnic groups of any particular part. They realize that the American people are 
compassionate. And they want to use that compassion as a rhetorical weapon against 
arguments that will reduce their power. That's what's really going on. 
I think that's true for a lot of arguments that our opposition makes is they don't actually 
believe the same things that they say they believe. They know that we often do. And ,they're 
trying to use our good faith against us. I try not to let them.
BAEHR:
Well, I hope I didn't break that news story to you. It would get a little awkward. 
VANCE:
You did not, trust me. I am well aware that Tom Nichols is not a fan of me. 
BAEHR:
Okay, let's go back a little bit. So, you have in some sense, earlier in your career trajectory, 
some similarity to some Teneans. You go to Yale Law School, you're working for Peter Thiel, 
    
you're kind of at a hedge fund, then you choose to write a book, and then you're starting 
your own venture capital firm, and you choose to run for oCice. I think a lot of us here might 
be in kind of more traditional careers in the marketplace, investing or running a company 
and sort of think like, how should I get in the arena? And just to be clear, running a company 
can totally be in the arena. 
VANCE:
Absolutely.
BAEHR:
One is not better than the other. But just wrestle through that a little bit. You and your wife 
processing that, you kind of started down this path, you chose — how did you process that?
VANCE:
A lot of is just the opportunities that are presented. And so, I really knew I didn't want to be 
a corporate lawyer. And right at the time that I was thinking I didn't want to be a corporate 
lawyer, I got introduced to Peter Thiel. So, Peter Thiel oCered me a job. 
So then I'm in Silicon Valley. The book comes out. I was sort of working on the book part￾time, really; it was never something that I did full time. The book took oC like crazy. There 
was sort of opportunities to launch my own fund. And so, I did that, right. And that's kind of 
how that happened. 
A lot of it is just the opportunities that present themselves. I've been talking a lot about 
politics and public policy the last five years, and then a senator in my home state decides 
to retire, leaving open what is increasingly a red-state Senate seat in the state of Ohio. So,
like a lot of things, it's just the opportunities present themselves. And I think you have to be 
willing to walk through the door. 
But if we're trying to translate that into useful advice, because obviously diCerent 
opportunities open for diCerent people at diCerent times, I really do think that, you know, in 
the business world, especially, we need more passionate conservatives, people who 
actually have the courage of their convictions. 
There are all of these things that I'm very hopeful about. But one of the things that really 
does worry me is that we have very few oligarchs on our side. And I don't mean just rich 
people. I mean people who are smart about deploying their resources in a way that 
advances the cause. Maybe only Peter Thiel, on our side, I think. Maybe a few others. 
BAEHR:
Right. 
VANCE:
    
The left has a lot of oligarchs. They have Bloomberg, they have Soros, they have Gates. They 
have very wealthy people who aren't just rich; they're very smart about accomplishing their 
objectives with their resources. We need a lot of that. We need a lot of it so that young 
conservatives have places to work where they can actually speak their values. But we also 
just need resources to fund the institutions that will be necessary, so the next time we 
really get a chance at governing, we really take advantage of that shot, because the left has 
shown over the past couple of months that they really don't want to give us that shot ever 
again. And I don't think that that impulse is going to change.
BAEHR:
Hey, my team just let me know breakout 107 is now “Becoming an Oligarch.” So, if you guys 
want to check out. There’s a how-to guide. 
Hey, about a month ago, we had a fun chance. I called JD. I said, “Hey, I'm driving to Ohio 
with my son on a road trip. And we got to walk with you in a July 4th parade.”
VANCE:
Was fun. 
BAEHR:
Which was a really cool opportunity. There was a line from a woman who was there for the 
parade that I want to get your feedback on that I appreciated. She said, "JD, I love your 
book, and I hate your party." 
Talk a little bit about, when your book came out, tens of millions of people read it. It just 
spoke to the situation of working-class Americans, of hollowed-out small towns, and I think 
in a lot of ways set oC a lot of these more some would say populist conversations in the 
movement. A lot of those people are trying to figure out are they Republicans. Or react to 
that line: when someone says I love you and the book, but not the party?
VANCE:
Yeah, I remember that woman very well. And the problem is, that woman can have two 
viewpoints and because we were literally still marching in the parade — it was towards the 
end, right? 
BAEHR:
Yeah.
VANCE:
Like I like run oC and keep on going. But she could have been one of two types. She could 
have been like a moderate Democrat. And this is in Lebanon — there aren’t a lot of 
Democrats left in Lebanon. So, I don't think she was this type. She could have been a 
moderate Democrat who maybe liked the book for one reason or another, but just really 
    
hates the party. Those people: tough to reach. You know, you gotta try. I definitely want to 
be a candidate for as many people as possible. 
But very often what I find in that is, she really loved the book. She doesn't watch 
mainstream news. She doesn't even watch like Fox News or Newsmax. Her main source of 
news is Steve Bannon's War Room. And she hates the party. But she loves the movement. 
She loves the ideas. She really cares about our country. 
And I think that we have to accept that that is one issue that exists in our movement right 
now is a relatively disconnected, very discouraged group of people who feel burnt out after 
2020 and they don't see a path forward. They don't see leaders actually oCering solutions 
to their problems, like, Oh, my God, this guy who defended this Texas abortion bill just got 
fired. What do we do about that? And so, I do think that a lot of our people, a real concern 
that I have is they feel discouraged. And we've got to energize and provide folks a little bit of 
hope, because the energy is there, we just have to actually marshal it and send it in the 
right direction.
BAEHR:
On the policy front, you've given some talks lately, they're fantastic, I highly recommend 
listening to everything JD has to say. You talk a lot about a real interest of yours is that a 
middle-income family, a middle-income family on one income, can have an easy, 
comfortable, reasonable life. And in some sense, like, Duh, haven't Republicans been 
saying that for a long time? But some might look at the eight years of George W. Bush and 
say, you know, W is probably saying some of the same things. But we get into Iraq, we get 
into Afghanistan, we grow the size of the federal government. So, when you talk about the 
flourishing of this middle-class family, what are the levers here? What are the things you'd 
actually materially change to make that life more possible?
VANCE:
Yeah, it's interesting, somebody sent me — was it yesterday or the day before — this sort of 
policy briefing from the Family Research Council, Tony Perkins' group in the late ‘90s. And I 
was looking at it and it was so crazy to me how similar that is to a lot of the issues that 
those of us on sort of the populist right are talking about. 
It was anti-normalization of trade relations with China. It was anti-free trade. It was pro￾family policy. It was super-hard-restrictionist on immigration. There's a lot of interesting 
stuC in there. And it made me realize that I think maybe George W. Bush was a really big 
missed opportunity, because a lot of these ideas were percolating in the movement, and it 
just didn't really ultimately materialize. 
So, I guess I think that, you know, look, the basic principle of we want normal people to be 
able to live a good life in this country. We want people to be able to support themselves on 
a single middle-class wage. I mean, it actually includes a lot of stuC that's unspoken, right? 
Okay, a single middle-class wage means we need really good jobs for middle class people. 
    
It also means that we need people who can speak their mind at their workplace without 
getting fired. That's an important cultural concept to I think economic stability.
I think it means that we need something like traditional families. And I've got a dear friend 
who's a very socially conservative guy; he's a stay-at-home dad, his wife works. I'm not 
saying it's always going to be the man working, the woman not working. But you really do 
need a two-parent household if the single-income model is going to work out really well. 
So, there's a lot built into that assumption, a lot of policy levers that I think we can push and 
pull on to make it more possible to happen. But I think that should be our guiding light. And 
so many normie Republicans hear folks like us. Probably, I assume very well-educated 
room, a lot of fancy credentials. We love to talk about Locke, and Montesquieu and Hayek 
and Friedman; we love to talk about these big ideas and abstract principles. But most 
people deal with politics at the level of “I really love my country, and I want to be able to live 
a good life here.”
BAEHR:
You've given me glimpses of this. I want you to share with the crew the experience around 
you write this book, and you get this call about during the movie. Would you take us to that 
dinner with your family where you guys were meeting the cast?
VANCE:
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, got a lot of calls from producers. I didn't want to do a movie out of 
the book. I just felt a little bit worried that you give it oC to somebody and it becomes 
something that you don't control anymore. And it's funny because I start talking to my 
family about it. My family that was sort of pretty apprehensive about the book and a lot of 
diCicult conversations, as people who've read the book can probably appreciate. They're all 
just like, “Are you kidding me? We should definitely do a movie.”
BAEHR:
Real quick, we're marching in the parade. JD's family was there, and it's your sister from 
California?
VANCE:
That's my cousin. She's like my sister, but yeah, she's your cousin.
BAEHR:
So, she comes over? She says, “You remember the cousin from California in the book? That 
was me. They were awesome. JD's mom was there.
JD Vance 24:42 
Yeah, they're now in rural Texas, which is so funny. Basically, what we what we try to mean, 
you know — I had this conversation with Ron Howard and I really liked him. I didn't like 
most of the producers that I talked about. He just you know, he's like, I really want to tell a 
    
story about normal Americans who are struggling in the post-industrial era. I don't feel like 
many stories have been told on the big screen about families like that. He was really into 
the idea really was into the relationship between my mom and my grandma, which is, I 
think, a very perceptive way to read the book. That it's really about the interaction between 
my mom and my grandma in a lot of ways. 
And so anyway, so the family loved him. We ended up sort of talking to him a lot. He came 
and visited us in Eastern Kentucky and southern Ohio, and did all this stuC. And so finally, 
we're doing this movie. But yeah, the cast wants to meet my family. And so they all fly in to 
do what, in hindsight, was actually research on the way that my family acts and the way my 
grandma held her cigarette and what her glasses looked like and all this crazy stuC. And it 
was just a lot of fun for my family to sit down and talk with these actors and actresses 
about like what was mamma like, and what were some of the crazy things she said. 
My cousin Rachel told Glenn Close that one of my grandma's favorite sayings was, “Grab a 
straw.” And I won't even repeat it here. But if you're interested afterwards, I'll tell you. But 
it's just incredibly vulgar. And I guess like people have told me that Glenn Close will 
sometimes say to people, “Grab a straw,” because she thought that's just the most 
hilarious thing that she had ever heard anybody say. So anyway, it was a cool experience in 
a lot of ways. I am waiting for the point at which the entire cast and crew of Hillbilly Elegy
the movie issues a denouncement of me personally. I'm sure it's coming. But I think when it 
happens, that's when I'll know I'm about to win the Senate race.
BAEHR:
In our final minute or two, a lot of Teneans, I feel this way, it's a nice set of people. It's a very 
pleasant, cordial. We want to have dinner conversations. You have been criticized by the 
Dispatch and some other parts of the conservative movement about taking a more 
aggressive approach or maybe using tools of the left or levers that traditionally 
conservatives would not use. Would you just talk a little bit about how you think about what 
tools you have in your toolkit? Have conservatives been too unwilling to take out tools that 
the left might be willing to use? And just encourage us how we think about picking up the 
right tools for this fight.
VANCE:
Yeah, absolutely. So, first of all, rhetorically, there's nothing wrong with dinner 
conversations. There's nothing wrong with discussing abstract principles. I think it is 
important for us to be a philosophically rooted movement. And that's an important thing. 
So, I encourage everybody to do that. 
I think there's also a time and a place for it. And when we're sort of dealing with Nancy 
Pelosi, this $3.5 trillion package with an amnesty bill built into it, it's probably not the time 
for dinner conversations. And so diCerent approaches for diCerent seasons is an important 
principle for us to keep in mind. 

But I guess just one thought on this. So, Republicans believe in lower taxes. That's a basic 
Republican principle. I believe in lower taxes. I think it's good for economic growth. I think 
it's important for people to keep more of their own money. 
But one of the things I've noticed in the tax conversations is we assume that Democrats 
believe in higher taxes. If you actually look, they believe in higher taxes for their enemies 
and lower taxes for their friends. So, the Harvard University endowment: Democrats aren't 
trying to raise their taxes. The biggest foundations in our country, the Ford Foundation, so 
forth, which by the way, one of the reasons capital has gone so woke is because the 
deployers of capital — big foundations, big endowments, hundreds of billions of dollars in 
money — are increasingly putting left-wing pressure on these institutions. Foreign direct 
investment. All allies of the left, all pay eCectively no tax, right? The biggest tech companies 
in Silicon Valley, all allies of the left. Amazon, Google, Apple, Facebook pay a lower tax rate 
than like a midsize manufacturer in Middletown, Ohio. 
So, I think that one of the things we have to realize is the left isn't playing the game we think 
that they're playing. The left is playing a game of rewarding friends and punishing enemies. 
We need to be willing to actually defend our friends. And the old slogans aren't going to 
work anymore. So, maybe we should be raising the tax to the Harvard University 
endowment. In fact, I think we should be. Things like that, that require a new approach and 
a new way of thinking. Yes, occasionally, the Dispatch and folks like that don't like it. But as 
I say, look, if they're bringing a bazooka to a fight, we can't bring a wet noodle. We have to 
bring something bigger and better.
BAEHR:
Yeah. Say no to wet noodle. Round of applause. Thanks for JD Vance. Thank you, guys. 
Thanks.