SENS CURTIS, SCHIFF INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN BILL TO CREATE FIRST-EVER RESPIRATORY PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL FIREFIGHTERS
Washington, D.C.
— Today, U.S. John Curtis (R-Utah.) and Senators Adam Schiff (D-Calif.)
introduced
the bipartisan
Healthy Lungs for Heroes Act,
legislation to create the first-ever respiratory protection standards for wildland firefighters. For decades, federal firefighters were prohibited from wearing respiratory protection despite a growing body of evidence warning about long-term health risks of wildfire smoke. This bill would ensure the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and U.S. Department of Interior (DOI) take long overdue steps to protect the health of these heroes. This legislation is also co-sponsored by Senator Tim Sheehy (R-Mont.) and Alex Padilla (D-Calif.).
“Our wildland firefighters already face some of the most grueling, dangerous conditions imaginable. The least we can do is ensure access to materials that will protect them from the long-term health consequences of breathing toxic smoke. This bill ensures we bring common sense, science, and basic decency to how we equip our firefighters,”
said Senator Curtis.
“Firefighters are heroes, and it’s critical that we do everything possible to ensure they’re protected from the health risks associated with wildfires. I am proud to introduce this long-overdue bipartisan bill with my Senate colleagues to minimize the toxic exposures that firefighters face when they’re bravely defending our communities and public lands. I’m going to push for Congress to pass this commonsense proposal,”
said Senator Schiff.
“Wildland firefighters deploy in the most extreme conditions to combat wildfires, preserve vital ecosystems, and save lives. These heroic men and women should not be forced to face long-term illness or premature death due to smoke exposure on the job. Our bill ensures that firefighters are given the critical protective equipment they need to stay healthy during the long, grueling hours on the front lines protecting us all,”
said Senator Padilla.
Federal wildland firefighters often work 16-hour shifts in grueling conditions, inhaling toxic smoke. Despite this, federal wildland firefighters were prohibited from wearing respiratory protection despite evidence warning about health risks of wildfire smoke. Studies have shown exposure to wildfire smoke is
linked
to adverse health impacts, including more than a dozen kinds of cancer. The life expectancy of firefighters is 10
years
less than the average adult due to lung damage.
In September 2025, USFS posted guidance acknowledging for the first time that respiratory protections can protect firefighters against harmful particles in wildfire smoke and reversing a decades-long rule that banned federal wildland firefighters from wearing respiratory protection while performing wildland firefighting activities. The legislation reinforces this action to ensure the agencies develop respiratory protections for firefighters.
The
Healthy Lungs for Heroes Act
specifically would:
Direct USFS and DOI to work with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to develop appropriate respiratory protections that take into account the unique needs of wildland firefighters.
Direct USFS and DOI to provide protection to wildland firefighters and require its use when smoke exposure exceeds NIOSH and OSHA exposure limits.
The bill is endorsed by National Federation of Federal Employees (NFFE), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), International Association of Firefighters (IAFF), Grassroots Wildland Firefighters, FireGen Collaborative, and former U.S. Fire Administrator Dr. Lori Moore-Merrell.
“We strongly support this legislation to modernize and standardize respiratory protection for wildland firefighters. As wildfire seasons grow longer and more dangerous, our federal wildland firefighters deserve safety standards that reflect the extreme conditions they face. Equally important is the bill’s mandate to determine appropriate equipment and regularly review and update all relevant PPE standards. This ensures that respiratory protection keeps pace with evolving science, operational demands, and the realities of modern fire behavior. Wildland firefighters risk their lives to protect our communities. Establishing clear exposure parameters and reliable respiratory protection is the least we owe to those who stand between our nation and catastrophic fire,”
said
Randy Erwin, National President, National Federation of Federal Employees (NFFE-IAM).
“The
Healthy Lungs for Heroes Act
represents a critical and long-overdue step toward protecting firefighters from prolonged smoke exposure during wildfire. The science is clear: structural and wildland firefighters are routinely exposed to dangerous levels of toxic compounds that far exceed permissible limits, and the International Agency for Research on Cancer has reclassified their occupational exposure as carcinogenic to humans. Senator Schiff and Senator Curtis’ bill addresses the gap for all firefighters fighting wildfire regardless of landscape.  From the wildland to the interface to community conflagration, firefighters have no respiratory protection as they cannot wear the typical SCBA worn during structural fires.  By requiring appropriate respiratory protection aligned with NFPA 1984 standards through collaboration with NIOSH, OSHA, and the National Wildfire Coordinating Group, this Act can close the gap. As we face increasingly severe wildfire seasons, we cannot ask our firefighters to sacrifice their long-term health. This legislation honors their service by ensuring they have the tools to protect themselves while protecting our communities. I strongly support this bill and urge Congress to pass it swiftly,”
said Dr. Lori Moore-Merrell, Former U.S. Fire Administrator.
“Grassroots Wildland Firefighters would like to thank Senators Schiff and Curtis for introducing legislation that recognizes real environmental hazards wildland firefighters face. For too long the physical health and wellbeing of these responders has been ignored by their own agencies. We enthusiastically endorse the
Healthy Lungs for Heroes Act of 2025
and urge all committee members to support this bill. Wildland firefighters’ lives literally depend on it,”
said
Lucas Mayfield, President, Grassroots Wildland Firefighters.
“The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) commends Senators Schiff and Curtis for leading the introduction of the
‘Healthy Lungs for Heroes Act’
, and thanks Senators Sheehy and Padilla for their critical support. With two-thirds of ﬁre departments reporting insufficient wildland PPE, many ﬁreﬁghters face dangerous gaps in protection against escalating wildﬁres. This legislation is a vital step to help ensure every ﬁreﬁghter has the gear they need to stay safe while safeguarding our communities,”
said
Jim Pauley, NFPA President and CEO.
“FireGen Collaborative strongly supports the
Healthy Lungs for Heroes Act of 2025
. As early career fire personnel, we understand the health disparities we face, and the importance of protecting our health to maintain our longevity and livelihoods. Yet, wildland firefighters face some of the most hazardous working conditions in public service, including chronic exposure to smoke and particulates. This legislation takes a crucial step to ensure that those who protect our communities are protected themselves, with strategies and evidence-based safety standards for protective equipment. We commend Congress for prioritizing the well-being of wildland firefighters and we urge swift passage of this critical measure,”
said
Ryan Reed, Program Director, FireGeneration Collaborative
Full text of the legislation is available
here
.