CURTIS, LUJÁN, KIM INTRODUCE BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION TO DEVELOP AND DEPLOY INNOVATIVE WILDFIRE PREVENTION TECHNOLOGIES
Washington, D.C.
– U.S. Senators  John Curtis (R-Utah) and Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.) introduced the Fire Innovation Unit Act, bipartisan legislation that establishes a deployment and demonstration pilot program for new and innovative wildfire prevention, detection, communication, response, and mitigation technologies. The Fire Innovation Unit Act requires the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior to create a Fire Innovation Unit to coordinate among federal agencies to ensure that piloted wildfire technology is carefully evaluated, deployed, and scaled, including through public-private partnerships. U.S. Representative Young Kim (R-Calif.) leads companion legislation in the House.
“Wildfires are growing more intense, and our response must grow smarter. The Fire Innovation Unit Act would give us the tools to develop and deploy cutting-edge technologies that can better protect our communities and first responders. Utahns understand the importance of preparation, stewardship, and innovation. This bill reflects all three. I’m proud to be a part of this bipartisan effort to move from reactive to proactive wildfire management,”
said Senator Curtis
.
“As wildfires continue to wreak havoc on communities across New Mexico and the country, we must find innovative tools and technologies to combat the ever-changing threats posed by wildfires,”
said Senator Luján
. “That’s why I’m proud to introduce my bipartisan Fire Innovation Unit Act, legislation that would allow us to develop and deploy innovative wildfire prevention and mitigation technologies. I look forward to working with my colleagues to get this legislation passed and boost our wildfire prevention and mitigation capabilities.”
“Too many in our community know the devastation of wildfires firsthand, and our first responders are already stretched thin,”
said Rep. Young Kim
. “Our first responders deserve every tool possible to protect lives, property, and our communities. From early detection systems to AI-enabled modeling, innovative technologies can transform wildfire response. The Fire Innovation Unit Act creates a public-private partnership so proven technologies can get into the field faster.”
“We need to advance and invest in wildfire science, data, and technology to confront the megafire crisis,”
said Matt Weiner, Founder and CEO of Megafire Action
. “Senator Luján has long been a champion for the use of technology to prepare for, prevent, and recover from devastating wildfires. Megafire Action is proud to endorse both the Responsible Wildland Fire Recovery Act and the Fire Innovation Unit Act sponsored by Sen. Luján, Sen. Curtis, and Rep. Kim to leverage cutting edge technology to protect communities and lives and to recover in a smart and responsible way when disaster strikes.”
“The Association of Firetech Innovation (AFI) applauds the leadership of Senator Ben Ray Luján and Senator John Curtis for introducing the Fire Innovation Unit Act. This legislation marks an important step toward accelerating the adoption of innovative technologies that enhance wildfire detection, prevention, and response. By establishing a pilot program, the bill will help ensure that frontline responders and communities at greatest risk have access to proven, life-saving tools,”
said Alexis Oberg, Association of Firetech Innovation
.
This Fire Innovation Unit Act is based on an amendment Senator Luján successfully secured to the Fix Our Forests Act, which was reported favorably out of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
Full bill text is available
here
.