 Go on to your left. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Go on. Testing one two one two check check one two Testing one two one two check Testing one two one two check Testing one two one two check testing one two one two check first question.iasm 1 too check. one two check. Testing one two one two check. Check check check one two one two check. Testing one two one two check. Testing one two one two check. That's the DG1 for your interview and just yeah yeah okay. Not yet we're checking audio real quick and then check one two. Testing one two one two check. Testing one two one two check. Testing one two one two check. Testing one two one two check. Check one two one two check. Testing one two one two check check One two, one two check, testing, one two, one two check, testing one two, one two check, testing one, two one two check, check check check, check check check check check hey Okay, so who's gonna do it? Okay. Okay. Okay. That is so cool. That's my making. Looks good. I'm going to throw up my nose. These are little skins here. So you're right, I'm sorry. Okay. That's that giant. How about that giant? Okay. The little teeth. It's wet. You have to turn your body, you can find facing here. Okay. We're doing a live interview and 10 seconds. Mr. Moore, how are you feeling tonight and how has the campaign been going? Well, the campaign, how am I feeling is incredible. I mean, the support we've had, you know, to be able to mount the kind of campaign we ran and ran the kind of race we've run. You just have the grassroots oil for us and to spend relatively a small dollar and to be blessed the way this campaign has been blessed. I'm just really humbled by the process and by the people they got behind us. I can't explain it, but I'm brave. Okay. Okay. How are the numbers going for you and how are you feeling tonight? I heard the first part of the question. The numbers are going really well. The precincts we're getting in, we've heard really, really well in our home area, well in the river region and even in Houston County, we're doing real well. So that's, I think, is key for us picking up those Elmore, or a Toggle County, Northern District, Montgomery area, and then of course doing well in home. And so far, that's what we're here. So we're really, really blessed and we're excited about what we're here. How hard has your campaign team worked? Well, you know, we didn't really have a lot of paid staffers. You're living in a campaign that didn't have a general manager. We didn't have a fundraiser. We just had grassroots and a couple campaign staffers and people that love this and support this and a great social media team. And so, you know, they've worked so very hard. And it's a roller coaster, but we learned over the years that it's never as good as you think it is. It's never as bad as you think it is. It's a roller coaster ride, but you just got to trust and walk in faith and that's what we've got. Have you talked to anyone today that's talked about how the voter turnout looked? How the voter turnout looked? You know, I haven't heard a lot in the areas. I've heard it's been low. So I assume, you know, I think the Secretary of State said maybe 17%, but we really haven't had. No pipe counting was a little low or a while ago. I was shocked by that number, but the rest of the air really haven't heard. I think everybody's just running about 17%. That's a guess. I don't know the truth. What are your next steps if you win? Well, you know, I guess the next step is trying to figure out, you know, how do we get ready to go? And for going into November, prepping our team for that, maybe bringing a few more people on to help us get our message out. And you know, walking faith, that's a lot of what we do. And so, I hadn't thought that far ahead, honestly. Thank you for your time, Mr. Moore. Thank you. Okay. So, I'm going to be in a corner. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for your time, Mr. Moore. Thank you. Okay, so you just want me to do it right there. Now your training is about to stop and have all your trades. Do you want to check? I'm not the only one who's been here. I'm not the only one who's been here. I want to check. What is the light for the world without? The day the world is blind. And you know, in a tent cell without, you did this tent cell without pushing the all because of the warning y'all. And so he does a lot of us to I'm standing here and I'm in a total shock. I'm in a trouble. Well, that's it. I see all that I'm not, but I have a surprise as you all. I'm just a workman tell. I can't say that. I've got a little parents meet, I got a lot of people on the same thing. I'm on the bed, I'm on the wall, I'm in the car waiting for a lot. It's really bad in here. But it will not have how I pray this will tell us the pray. And you can be out there. They call the praise of order to be here to this news announcement. So I am doing again, you know, giving us what I'm about to do. All right, congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We're going to go to the next video. And this is a work, we're going to have a kind of a cause for. Amen. You got to let it warm. We've got a shop. Real loud, put your hands together. Thank you. Hey, you have a ears. We're about to raise a handphone. We're about to have a handphone. Oh, God, we love you. We thank you Lord. It's your name. This family to do this work. And this time, we God that you've been with them. And you've directed them. And you've placed your faith on their life Lord. And tonight we give you our God. All body, all the praise, all the glory. And we declare it today in Jesus' name, and we will God. And everybody's here today, man. Amen. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm ready to give you a hug. Thank you. I was very happy. I'm a hug. I'm a friend of yours. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm glad you're back. Thank you. Thank you. If you enjoyed this video, please share it with your friends. Please. Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to give them the horse to laugh. It's a six-year-old. She's got one. You got a good one? It's a good one. I don't want to give you one. It's a good one. No, one. Take that one. You can bounce. Now, what else do I need? You can come out and hit her. I want to hit her. I want to hit her. I want to hit her. You can go. Love you. Do you want to hit her? Love you. Love you. Love you. Love you. Love you. Love you. Love me. Love you. Love you. I don't want to hear that. It's not so good. I don't want to hear that. No, you don't. You just know I need that. You just know I need that. It's all just. You're coming. I'm going to hold down this time. What? I'm getting kicked in this time. I'm going to hold down this time. I'm going to hold down this time. I'm going to hold down this time. I know. I hear. I'm going to hold down right over there. I don't want to hear. I'm going to be like right here. They all go crazy. Randy and George. Randy and George. Randy and George. Randy can go. It's a good idea to find names. I'm wearing a fake one. It's a good idea to find names. It's a good idea to find names. I'm not going to stand like Randy or the other one. I'm going to get my name back. I'm going to get my name back. Wah! Wah! Wah! Wah! Wah! Wah! Wah! Wah! I think it was a big one. We got time. We need to get started. Not yet. The boss man said. Now I don't know what to do. I got to stand up here for two or three minutes. Let me tell. Can I? Hey Jonathan, can I tell the backstory? Not yet. Okay. We got to wait eight minutes. This is my boss right here. I'm going to tell a little backstory about Jonathan. I'm going to tell a little backstory about Jonathan. I'm going to tell a little backstory about Jonathan. This guy we met on the floor of the Republican National Convention and Cleveland O'Hau. He was my alternate delegate. But more than that, we've called this a David and Goliath story. That is my Jonathan. He was my armor bear. He and his wife, when I tell you they carried the media load for this, this guy didn't charge me hardly anything for what it was worth. It was how we were able to do it because he would it didn't matter on social media. It didn't matter if he had to drive through the night with a van to do a live event. He did it. He's my Jonathan. And so the Lord brought Jonathan in my life at the National Convention and what night's the dental at that time. And for us to be standing here tonight, Jonathan, that's unbelievable brother. I'm unbelievable. And so he stays behind the scenes. You rarely ever see him. But I tell you all, he was kind of like a campaign general manager. What am I supposed to call you now? Consultant. Consultant, whatever. He was a jack of all trades and a master. No, that's what Jonathan was. But he was great. And so he and I became fast friends. His wife actually during the primary was walking around the building praying the whole time. Joe, come on up here. Joe, come on up here. So they have become when you end the churches and you fight those fights, those battles that those friends become family and they have become family really for us. So anyway, Jonathan, tell me when I can start. All right. Let's go five minutes. We got five minutes. Oh, we got five whole minutes. So. Yeah, no questions. No questions. Oh, yes. I hope everybody voted today. I hope everybody voted today. But anyway, so yeah, it's been an interesting, interesting road to hope for us. And so I got to say enough about my family and my friends and like said, the team. And we'll talk about those guys a little bit. Randy Higman on the end. And George Trider, those two guys, one on put 13,000 miles on one of my trucks driving around. So. Come on up, friends. Joe, y'all come on up, man. Come on up. Everybody come on around. Don't worry about the cameras are getting with the need. You don't need to be behind the cameras. You don't need to be happy. Feeling on the side, Joe. Yeah, come on, man. Y'all come on up, brudson. Y'all come on up. This is my grassroots life. Bring your friends. Come on up, man. Oh, yeah. Come on up. Look at Mr. Cole. Woo! Woo! Woo! You're right over there, right? You're right over there, right? Yes, man. Yes, man. Good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Come on up, man. Yeah. Come on up. Come on up, man. Yeah. Oh, my God. Hello. I'm sorry. John, John, John. We're going to get that. He's going to walk up. Oh, you said one minute. Yeah. Oh, man, Mr. Chair. Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, man. Oh, man. Everybody ready? Here we go. Woo! Very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very. Well, well, man, you know, guys, thank you all so much for being here. It is a blessing to have you on my team and have the support and prayers that we've received. I've got to thank Ketchum's restaurant tonight. Were they not incredible, Daniel? Oh, yeah! Oh, yeah! Oh, yeah! Okay, so first thing I'm going to do is read a couple Bible verses. And these were kind of the ones that the Lord just gave us through the fire and over the last 770 days since the last primary. So, first Jesus said, look at them and he said, with men it is impossible, but not with God. With God, all things are possible. Amen. I'm Mark 1027 and Psalm 37, which has kind of been, it's the verse of the Lord gave me through the most difficult time in my life, but that 2014, if that had not happened, I would not be standing here in front of you today. The Lord just, he'll cut you off to the root sometime and let you build from the ground up. And that's kind of what he did with our family and that's what he did with me and my walk in faith. And so, this was a walk in faith. It made no sense to man. But you know, the obedience is counted. It's counted as righteousness. It's instant. You know, obedience is the greatest thing you do. It's greater than any sacrifice you make. So, we always try to walk in obedience and this was a prayerful campaign. It was a grassroots campaign and God has blessed us. So, the second one is Psalm 37, 5, 6 and some of y'all may have heard me read this before. If you watch much network TV, you probably did. It says, commit your way to the Lord. Trust him and he will do this. He will make your righteousness reward shine like the dome. Your vindication like the New Day sign. And so, this to us was about, we just wanted to run a clean race, you know, we wanted to give God the glory and that's the first thing I wanted to do tonight. That's what we were instructed to do. And at end of the day, I'll tell you all this, there's a God and we're not him. You know, we're not him. And he could do amazing things. I wrote in my journal a few months ago, it said, an improbability is a possibility if you don't let your capabilities get in the way of God's availability. And that was a word the Lord gave me. In other words, these impossibilities are always possible if you don't ever limit God. And that's how I approached this. And so, he has worked in miracle. This was truly a David and Gly. This was a David and Gly. We were outspent, I don't know, we spent maybe three or four hundred thousand on our race and they spent two or three million. But like I said, improbabilities are possibilities when God's involved. And so, I want to thank a few people I've got to certainly think my wife Heather. Chathleen, this is my daughter. Youngest Trump delegate in the nation, by the way, Claudia. Jeb, he's a caboose and Jeremy. My mom and my dad, my mom is, she's a prayer warrior, she's behind me here somewhere, I'm sure. My mother-in-law, I tell you all when she prayed over me, she lives with us and she prayed over me often. And I felt those prayers. I mean, sometimes she would actually come down to the morning when I was doing my Bible study and pray over me. And so, that gives you a certain amount of comfort when you go in the battle. You know that you're covered in the blood. And so, we've had just so much support in prayers. And so, of course, Sherry McCormick, about the only true page. Sherry was super hard worker, you know, super hard worker. And about the only full time paid staffer I had the whole time. She was just grassroots. You know, we've always believed that if you campaign among the people, you will govern for the people. But as you campaign from an ivory tower, you will govern from an ivory tower. And so, Sherry was good at getting out and meeting people and meeting needs. When we got shut down with the COVID-19, we served people. We helped people. And so, she's been big in that. Randy Hickman, I mentioned earlier, Mr. George Trotter. No body. These guys, I don't know where they find their energy, but these guys bring it. When I tell you they bring it, Mr. George be calling you yelling on the phone about he got you two votes today. And Randy was just, Randy was up there wearing a wheels off of that truck. He, he, he, 13,000 miles he drove that truck. And so, just with a very more sign in the back of it, you know. And so, it's just down the line. Shaggle pride, shaggle. Yes. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. My treasure, Steve Cape, Henrietta, Mr. Lewis Coles, Mr. Lewis Coles. That man right there drove me when we were working really, really hard for endorsements. We drove many a night. I think we did 15 counties in meetings, and he drove me, and just drove me, and encouraged me. Good night since some bad nights. His jokes get old after a while. He'll tell you the same story over and over. Andy Carver, yeah. Johnny McCoy, Frank Wilts, those are veterans. Those are the guys that worked so hard for the veterans in Northern part of the district. Scott and Don Johnson, Missou New Wine. I don't know if she's left yet or if she's still here. Missou New Wine. It's Su's fault that I stand before you today. She got me in the politics in 2008. She asked me to consider serving. And I went to the state house at that time, so it's her fault. John Roberts, Carol Bolston, Miss Virginia Howard's a prayer warrior friend of mine. God, they're all wonderful. Shannon Smith and her family, those kids, and they have worked so hard. I think they were waving signs today for us. So Mr. Jim Coals and then Andy Gamble. And Andy Gamble, Mickey Beverly Jordan, Tyler Burns. Tyler. Tyler was kind of, he was a Johnny come lately. I mean, we hired him. He had worked hard on it. I guess a couple of races and y'all were in good shape. And so he reached out to us and he worked at Northern part of the river region. You see how sunburn he is? That's from, that's from walking door to door and waving signs and 100 degree day in and day out. And Emily helped him a lot. They did a wonderful job. My brother, Novi Bracken, y'all don't hurt him, pray as he here tonight. Novi don't like any kind of tension, but he's called to the Lord of what he does and he just helped God us. When I tell y'all we ran a perfect campaign, we ran a perfect campaign, but it wasn't anything we did. It was the Lord's God us through Novi Bracken and prayers. And he would give me words about not to go negative. He would tell me how to approach it. And so that's Novi was the God. He was my prayer warrior, my buddy. And he gave me peace at times when I didn't always have it. So anyway, so Novi, Randy Hard is not here, but Randy's a good friend of mine. He's a prayer warrior. And I'm sure we'll see him eventually around, but dear friend of mine, Bill Harris. Bill here is the other. He had to go back north. Bill's a good conservative guy from the northern part of the district. And he was my, I guess you say Joshua. He's the one that got me to step into 2018 and run. He said, he said, Barry, you know the Lord didn't part to water till the priest put the feet in the water? That was Bill Harris. And so we ran, I told Heather that day I said we're going to step in this congressional race and run against an incumbent, but we felt called to do that. Have we not laid the groundwork in 18? We would not be standing here in 2020. So the Lord, he'll build you that way. He'll start you in 14. He brought us through 18. And then he called us into this thing again. In 20, we're like, Lord, really? But you know, he's been faithful. And I, when I see a garbage man from Baton's Crossroad, Alabama, going to Congress and standing up here talking to a bunch of people and TV cameras, that tells you that we're living one of the greatest nations in the world. And, man. There we are. There we are. We were against seven candidates in the primary. Seven people. Y'all know how discouraged and that can be. Especially when one of them's got $2 million. That can be discouraging. But you know, it was just we stepped in and we ran and we worked hard and here we are. And so I tell you, we're still the greatest nation on earth, but things like that. Tiffany Tata, one of my pair of warrior friends, and then Jason Howles, a prayer friend of mine. He's down the panel of Florida, but I made him a long time ago. He's a spirit filled man. Okay, and my media warriors, they worked so hard. Y'all, we knew that grassroots was key. We knew that's how we would get the load out. And so that's what we did. They worked so hard. I want to thank them and Wendy and John, Sector Monica Howard and Sean, Wendy Penson, Dorothy Robbins, volunteer of the Dothan area. All my employees at BMI, they kind of held the fort down all I did. Yeah. Warren Byron, his wife and his family have always supported and safe come to everything. And of course Paul Daz, he's worked so hard. So Paul's kind of one of my guys. He shows up and he'll go door-knock do whatever you ask him to do. He'll ride with me and drive me, and that helps a lot too. So anyway, I just want to thank y'all so much. And tell you this, Jonathan brother, I love you. You've been my armor bearer through this thing, man. And so he has been a, I tell you, nobody has worked any harder than him to help us match the big money. And we did it without the big money, because of his hard work, him and his wife. And so guys, I appreciate y'all being here. And I can't tell you, it hadn't hit me yet, and we did this. And honestly, as much as you like to trust the Lord, sometimes you still go, Lord, are you sure about this? You know what you're going to say? But he has been so faithful and he's been so gracious. And so thank y'all, I love y'all. I love our community. And the president needs a little help. I've been with him since the day one, and I tell you this. Y'all keep me in your prayers, because I told the kids early on, I said, the winning this race and running this campaign, that's the easy part. Going to DC and facing the kind of stuff that we've got going on in this country, it's a spiritual battle for the future of the nation. I just tell you all that. It's not Democrats, it's not race wars. It's a spiritual battle for the future of our country. We've got to have men who are willing to bend to me and look to heaven. And it's stand up and fight. And so that's what we're going to do. And so y'all keep us in your prayers. And God bless you. We love you guys. And I don't know what else to say except, I love you and I appreciate it. I'm serious. I'm serious. I'm serious that I didn't need to get a shout out to my veterans. The veterans really got out and worked so hard for us. They're soldiers anyway, but they were great foot soldiers. And so me being a veteran, me and only veteran in the race, that's been tremendous support for me all over the district. And so thank you guys. God bless you and y'all have a good night. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Lets get to extinguish their roof, yeah. Oh, Alright, look. I'm gonna put it down here. You know what, you're gonna put the camera in the same place. You're gonna let me do it. Ready? Are we ready? Go. You gotta stay at last. You can do it, do it. Do it, do it. Just say it real loud. Ready? Go. Alright, alright. Thank you. Yo, I wanna talk about the magnetic pin right? What about it, friends? I saw you over there, man. God bless you, brother. Thank you for your attention. Congratulations, man. Thank you, brats. God bless you, brats. Thank you. Thank you, brats. Thank you. Thank you, brats. Thank you, brats. Thank you, brats. Thank you, brats. Thank you, brats. We take you home. Hi. I'm here with the mic. The whole party was closed for me. It's a joke. It must be the person who said it was... I Ask Davie said we'll figure that out when we get there Unless I won't be just You're too low-bright yourself Oh We got a new job we got a new job now I gotta get the hell out of you Oh Where is why do we get her first How is I don't see a problem with the customer! Ha ha ha Oh I can feel bad for the younger I mean he's got a putty inside the bag. He did. So I mean I would. That's an old piece of metal. He's got a little bit. He's got a little bit. You know this one. It's an old piece. You always cut that too. It's $1. Hey. How's it going? You know what I mean? Wait. I'm going to stick up. No. It's going to be a little bit. The original sock. The sailboat. So anything from the big race beat? Okay. Okay. We need to get a sailboat from the big race beat. Just sit in there. Yeah. Yeah. You're going to be alive, everything's gone. You know what I mean? I'm going to be alive, everything's gone. You know what I mean? I'm going to be alive. I'm going to be alive. I'm going to be alive. I'm going to be alive. I'm going to be alive. I'm going to be alive. I'm going to be alive. I'm going to be alive. Hey. What's the rest of the last bar fight? What's the rest of the last bar fight? The rest of the ride. What's the name? What's the last word? Three, six, zero, one. Three, six, zero, one. Three, six, zero, one. Three, six, zero, one. Three, six, zero, one. Check, check, check. Check, check, check. Check, check, check. One, two, testing, one, two. Check, check, check. Check, check, check. Check, check, check. Check, check, check. Check, check.