november 6, 2025 u.s. senate – u.s. senator steve daines today attended the c5+1 tenth anniversary business conference in washington, d.c., where he delivered opening and closing remarks. over the past 20 months, daines has travelled to all five central asian countries and met with their presidents. yesterday, daines introduced a bill to end the outdated jackson-vanik trade restrictions that impact the region- read more here. read daines’ closing remarks as prepared for delivery below. there are few parts of the world that offer the opportunity that central asia does. closer ties between our nations can bring greater economic opportunity to millions of people and secure some of the west’s most vulnerable supply chains. building a closer relationship between our countries is not simply desirable but is a strategic imperative for the united states. the trump administration has made these relationships a priority; the new special envoy for central asia position in addition to the c5+1 vehicle, the concurrent critical minerals dialogue, u.s. industry trade missions, and other diplomatic and commercial avenues provide the necessary forums through which the united states and central asia can build the capacity and trust necessary for long term cooperation. collaborative resource and infrastructure development will be the bedrock of central asia’s future economy. earlier this week, the senate passed my resolution honoring the anniversary of this diplomatic platform with unanimous bipartisan support, demonstrating congress’ commitment to these relationships. but the job is not done. there is still much that can be done to facilitate closer connections between our countries. i am working with bipartisan partners in congress to repeal the outdated soviet era jackson-vanik trade restrictions through legislation introduced in both the house and senate this week. it is long past time we relegate these outdated restrictions to the ash heap of history and bring our relationships into the 21 st century. central asia is endowed with rich natural resources. collectively, the five nations represent over 31 billion barrels of oil reserves, 250 trillion cubic feet of gas reserves, and over 40% of global uranium production. as we look to a new day for europe, one wherein the continent is not dependent on a bellicose adversary for energy supplies, central asian nations can be the partners of the future; providing consistent flows of resources necessary for baseload power without the concern that those energy imports will be weaponized. even three years after the invasion of ukraine, the u.s. is still importing uranium from russia despite profound national security implications. central asian partners can instead offer a more reliable source of the element necessary to the development of artificial intelligence, data centers, and other energy-intensive industries. in addition to energy resources, central asia holds impressive deposits of almost every critical mineral necessary for technological innovation. from antimony, gold, cobalt, copper, lithium, aluminum, and zinc, to one of the world’s largest rare earth deposits, the region contains enough primary building blocks for advanced technology to offset many of the united states’ current supply chain vulnerabilities and ensure our technological development is free of foreign coercion. this is not to say that resource extraction is the sum total of our relationship; but instead, it is a vehicle for our nations to strengthen existing relationships. collaborative investment creates a tide that will lift all boats; building more vibrant economies and better opportunity for the citizens of central asia and ensuring a steady supply of the inputs that power the west’s economy. there is no reason successful development cannot lead to increased engagement in central asian nations as the partners and markets of the future, making advancements across the agricultural, technological, financial, and energy sectors. american capital comes from reliable partners who are actively invested in a project’s successful completion without complex political prerogatives or expectations. increased public-private partnership through the development finance corporation and other investment vehicles will harmonize private interests with shared national security and development prerogatives, bringing the two missions parallel into one holistic strategy. major developments within the wider region also offer promise for long-term investment prospects. following the successful conclusion of the azerbaijan-armenia peace deal signed in august, central asia’s resources for the first time will have a westward trade route. the trump route for international peace and prosperity and its associated infrastructure will finally unite central asia with western markets and allow sustained, long-term investment. the long theorized middle corridor is well and truly underway; brezinski’s dream of uncorking central asia’s riches through the south caucasus is coming to fruition. a region long beset by destructive rivalry fomented by the soviet union and subsequently russia has collectively decided to march forward toward a future defined by increased partnership and economic cooperation. under soviet rule and later russian influence, the central asian countries were discouraged from fulfilling their nation’s potential; powerful southern neighbors did not serve russia’s interests. russia still feels similarly about developing the region but is too occupied with ukraine to meddle along its southern flank and has lost its ability to deny those nations their future. putin’s war has opened the door for a more reliable partner in the united states to engage the eurasian heartland, one that can provide reliable, stable foreign investment without complex political prerogatives. other nations offer attractive investment to central asia but are missing the cornerstone of u.s. investment. the u.s.’ most valuable asset is trust; i believe it was secretary colin powell who said that in all the wars it has fought, the only land the united states has ever asked for is land to bury our dead. america’s track record as a trusted partner for peace and prosperity is something only our nation can offer. we may take our time in arriving, but once we are there, we are truly invested in mutually beneficial investment and follow through on our commitments. this year’s tenth iteration of the c5+1 will hopefully facilitate further joint development of natural resources, increased foreign direct investment, and greater high-level contact between our countries. a region submerged between russia, china, and iran has chosen to forge an independent path dominated by none of their neighbors but instead defined by regional consensus and multilateral diplomacy as well as international partnership. central asia will no longer be denied its future or its birthright, and america’s pivot towards the region is already well underway. i look forward to working with president trump, secretary rubio, and everyone in this room to build on the successes we have already had and to create a brighter future for all the people we serve and represent. … thank you all very much. ### contact: matt lloyd, gabby wiggins