november 21, 2025 u.s. senate— u.s. senator steve daines recognized retired brigadier general dale stovall for his courageous actions during the vietnam war as montanan of the month. through his “montanan of the month” initiative, every month daines highlights a montanan by submitting a statement of recognition in the congressional record, the document that reflects the official proceedings of congress. to recommend a montanan click here. the following is a statement submitted to the congressional record: tribute to brigadier general dale stovall mr. daines, mr. president, today i have the honor of recognizing brigadier general (ret.) dale stovall of missoula as montanan of the month for his extraordinary courage, lifetime of military service, and heroic actions that saved the lives of his fellow airmen during the vietnam war. earlier this year, ret. general stovall traveled to washington, d.c., where he received well-deserved recognition from president trump for the daring rescues that he carried out decades ago in vietnam. his story is one of unwavering bravery, humility, and dedication to his country. during his service as a helicopter pilot in the united states air force, then-captain stovall flew some of the most dangerous missions of the war, going deep into hostile territory under heavy enemy fire to rescue downed american airmen. one of his most legendary missions was the rescue of fellow airman roger locher, a mission so dangerous that stovall recalled the sky filled with explosions as he maneuvered his helicopter through relentless enemy attacks. despite the danger, stovall pressed on. his extraordinary flying skill and refusal to give up saved locher’s life and many others. over the course of a single combat tour, he completed 12 rescues behind enemy lines. on each one, he risked his own life so that another american could go home to their family. for these acts of heroism, general stovall received the air force cross, the distinguished flying cross, and two silver stars, making him one of the most highly decorated air force academy graduates in history. but in true montana fashion, general stovall is always quick to shift the spotlight away from himself. he reminds us that rescue missions are a team effort of pilots, crew members, and rescuers united under the jolly green motto: “that others may live.” after vietnam, stovall continued to serve our nation with distinction, ultimately retiring as a brigadier general after 31 years in uniform. his commitment to service, courage under fire, and lifelong dedication to his fellow service members make him a hero of the vietnam era. general stovall, you make montana proud. your legacy of valor, humility, and service will inspire montanans for years to come. it is my honor to recognize you as montanan of the month. ### contact: matt lloyd, gabby wiggins