[congressional record volume 170, number 9 (wednesday, january 17, 2024)] [house] [pages h150-h151] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] a call for humane treatment of migrants the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from illinois (mrs. ramirez) for 5 minutes. mrs. ramirez. mr. speaker, i rise today as the proud daughter of guatemalan immigrants, the wife of a dreamer, and the representative of illinois 3, a district proud of the contributions of the migrants who call it home, and a member of the humboldt park united methodist church, a church that is formed by immigrants, a church that has been serving the community for decades, and a church that built me and taught me to put my faith into action and to advocate for our shared humanity. as a methodist, i would like to share a call for prayer and action from ``metodistas asociados representando la causa hispano americana,'' ``methodists associated representing the cause of hispanic/latinx american,'' the national plan for hispanic/latino ministry of the united methodist church, and the general board of church and society of the united methodist church. as we just celebrated the season of epiphany, we are reminded again of the story of those three wise travelers who journeyed through many lands and over borders in search of a newborn king. we are reminded that after they found the infant jesus, his mother, and joseph, the true peril of their mission began. herod's anxiety and paranoia led to one of the worst infant massacres recorded in the gospel text, and their earnest pilgrims' story transformed the holy family's existence into a family like so many today seeking asylum in other lands and, in particular, at our southern border. therefore, we join in a call for the humane and sacred treatment of migrants, refugees, and those who seek asylum at our borders as a recognition that the same jesus who traveled with his family on that fateful night, can still be found in the faces of all of the families we see on our tv screens and our social media spaces. along with this, we stand in opposition to the state of texas sb 4 law, signed by governor greg abbott, which allows police officials to arrest and charge migrants with misdemeanors or more serious offenses if they do not agree to leave by order of a state judge. this law incentivizes racial profiling and further limits the rights of due process for migrants fleeing unthinkable violence, poverty, and death. furthermore, we oppose the inhumane treatment of migrants, refugees, and asylum-seekers by governor abbott in transporting migrants to other states without their knowledge or consent, only to abandon them on cold streets without concern about the extreme cold weather and safety issues they would face. we call on this administration to honor the principles of so many of the world religions that call us to mercy, to compassion, and to welcome and hold sacred lives of immigrants, refugees, and asylum- seekers when engaging in budget negotiations and stricter border security measures. we urge the administration to consider prayerfully those measures that will lead to a safe and just resolution with a path toward effective immigration solutions, funding to be able to process asylum and refugee claims faster and more effectively, and intentional steps to work with countries of origin to understand and combat the reasons for this mass migration. we call on our colleagues, members of the house and senate, to negotiate in good faith with this administration, not in the hopes of gaining political points, as we have seen, but in the spirit of their shared citizenship in the world and with a deep conviction of what it means to be a beloved community. the gospel of matthew tells us that herod tempted the wise men to carry out his evil intentions toward the christ child and his family. however, in a dream, an angel warns them not to return to herod. instead, they chose to return by another route. their courage and conviction should inspire all of us to choose another route, one filled with compassion, with justice, with mercy, and the belief that we are all made in the image of our creator and endowed with certain inalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. we call on all methodists and all humans everywhere to join us in the call of action for prayer. may we lead differently. may we recognize our shared humanity. may our faith lead us to action. may we be reminded that we, in fact, have a shared humanity and a responsibility to act justly and mercifully. [[page h151]] {time} 1015 mayor josh moenning retiring mr. flood. mr. speaker, i rise today to express my sincere gratitude to my hometown mayor, josh moenning, of norfolk, nebraska. after almost 12 years as mayor, he has decided to retire at the end of his term. during his tenure, mayor moenning saw norfolk through dozens of projects that made our city a more desirable place for families and young people. mayor moenning said his time as mayor centered around three things: enhanced quality of life, improved infrastructure and city services, and economic growth. he accomplished those three objectives and more by renovating johnson park, revitalizing a wide variety of businesses and housing developments, and expanding infrastructure. mayor moenning took the city's ideas and needs, and he put them into action. because of his service to our community, norfolk is an even better place to live, work, and raise a family than it was 12 years ago. on behalf of the city of norfolk in the first congressional district, i extend our appreciation to mayor moenning for his leadership over the past 12 years. in honor of angie muhleisen mr. flood. mr. speaker, i rise today to honor angie muhleisen. for the better part of three decades, angie has led union bank & trust of lincoln. she has recently announced she is stepping down as ceo. when angie started at union bank, it was a $50 million financial institution. through the years, she has helped grow it into an $8 billion organization with over 1,000 teammates. from lincoln's inspire woman of the year to the chamber's burnham yates citizenship award, angie's leadership has earned significant recognition from community organizations. even as she steps away from her role as ceo, her heart for service is not slowing down. she recently became the board chair for the university of nebraska foundation. she also serves on the board of assurity and is involved in numerous other organizations. angie's greatest legacy is her family. her son jason is stepping into the role as ceo and will do an outstanding job building on her work. best wishes to angie on this next chapter. school choice week mr. flood. mr. speaker, i rise today to highlight national school choice week. school choice allows parents and children to choose the school that best fits their needs. whether it is a public school, a private school, a home school, or a hybrid of these options, parents have a right to direct the upbringing and education of their kids. last year, nebraska passed its first school choice law, helping more families and kids to pick a school that best fits their needs, but there is still more we can do. here at the federal level, i am a proud cosponsor of congressman adrian smith's educational choice for children act, which would bolster school choice across the nation. this legislation would help more kids from low-income households access the education of their choice. i urge my colleagues to pass this. back home in nebraska, our legislature has been working to fund students, not systems. i am excited to see how they build on their school choice success. keep up the great work. housing week mr. flood. mr. speaker, i rise today to highlight housing week, as declared by me, in nebraska. a recent survey by lending tree found that 94 percent of americans identified owning a house as part of the american dream, but just over half of those `` . . . who do not own a home say they are worried they never will.'' next week, i will address a workforce housing summit hosted by the columbus area chamber of commerce. if we want to keep the american dream alive, we must address the high cost of housing, help more americans save for a downpayment, and break through other barriers. we must also take care of the housing stock in our communities. later next week, i will be hosting a housing improvement meeting in clarkson. this meeting will help brief community members about programs that can help weatherize and improve existing homes. next week will be full of small, but important, steps toward addressing this shortage. while there is no silver bullet, through the work of local, state, and federal partners, we can help more americans find the home of their dreams. 100-plus days of israel-hamas war mr. flood. mr. speaker, it has been more than 100 days since hamas launched a vicious war against israel, committing inhumane acts of violence. since october 7, israel has worked to eliminate hamas in response to their horrific killing and torture of over 1,000 innocent people. right now, there are still more than 100 hostages being held by hamas, including as many as six americans. over the last few months, we have witnessed numerous protests across the country sympathizing with hamas, which is nothing short of shocking. the messages of these protesters is often at odds with supporting the only democracy in the middle east, and they do not reflect our nation's values. let me be clear. america does not negotiate with terrorists, and we support the right of israel to exist. america will continue to stand with israel as they work to end hamas and free every single hostage. we will not back down. may god bless the continued friendship between israel and america. ____________________