[congressional record volume 162, number 8 (wednesday, january 13, 2016)] [house] [pages h355-h356] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] providing for congressional disapproval of a rule submitted by the corps of engineers and the environmental protection agency the speaker pro tempore. the unfinished business is the vote on passage of the joint resolution (s.j. res. 22) providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, united states code, of the rule submitted by the corps of engineers and the environmental protection agency relating to the definition of ``waters of the united states'' under the federal water pollution control act, on which the yeas and nays were ordered. the clerk read the title of the joint resolution. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the passage of the joint resolution. this is a 5-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 253, nays 166, not voting 14, as follows: [roll no. 45] yeas--253 abraham aderholt allen amash amodei babin barletta barr barton benishek bilirakis bishop (mi) bishop (ut) black blackburn blum bost boustany brady (tx) brat bridenstine brooks (al) brooks (in) buchanan buck bucshon burgess byrne calvert carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot chaffetz clawson (fl) coffman cole collins (ga) collins (ny) comstock conaway cook cooper costa costello (pa) cramer crawford crenshaw cuellar culberson curbelo (fl) davis, rodney denham dent desantis desjarlais diaz-balart dold donovan duffy duncan (sc) duncan (tn) ellmers (nc) emmer (mn) farenthold fincher fitzpatrick fleischmann fleming flores forbes fortenberry foxx franks (az) frelinghuysen garamendi garrett gibbs gibson gohmert goodlatte gosar gowdy graham granger graves (ga) graves (la) graves (mo) griffith grothman guinta guthrie hanna hardy harper harris hartzler heck (nv) hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. hill holding hudson huelskamp huizenga (mi) hultgren hunter hurd (tx) hurt (va) issa jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (oh) johnson, sam jolly jones jordan joyce katko kelly (ms) kelly (pa) king (ia) king (ny) kinzinger (il) kline labrador lahood lamalfa lamborn lance latta lobiondo long loudermilk love lucas luetkemeyer lummis macarthur marchant marino massie mccarthy mccaul mcclintock mchenry mckinley mcmorris rodgers mcsally meadows meehan messer mica miller (fl) miller (mi) moolenaar mooney (wv) mullin mulvaney murphy (pa) neugebauer newhouse noem nugent nunes olson palmer paulsen pearce perry peterson pittenger pitts poe (tx) poliquin pompeo posey price, tom ratcliffe reed reichert renacci ribble rice (sc) rigell [[page h356]] roby roe (tn) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rohrabacher rokita rooney (fl) ros-lehtinen roskam ross rothfus rouzer royce russell salmon sanford scalise schrader schweikert scott, austin scott, david sensenbrenner sessions sewell (al) shimkus shuster simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (tx) stefanik stewart stivers stutzman thompson (pa) thornberry tiberi tipton trott turner upton valadao veasey vela wagner walberg walden walker walorski walters, mimi walz weber (tx) webster (fl) wenstrup westerman whitfield williams wilson (sc) wittman womack woodall yoder yoho young (ak) young (ia) young (in) zeldin zinke nays--166 adams aguilar bass beatty becerra bera beyer blumenauer bonamici boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brown (fl) brownley (ca) bustos butterfield capps capuano cardenas carney carson (in) cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) chu, judy cicilline clark (ma) clarke (ny) clay cleaver clyburn cohen connolly courtney crowley cummings davis (ca) davis, danny defazio degette delaney delauro delbene desaulnier deutch doggett doyle, michael f. duckworth edwards ellison engel eshoo esty farr fattah foster frankel (fl) fudge gabbard gallego grayson green, al green, gene grijalva gutierrez hahn hastings heck (wa) higgins himes hinojosa honda hoyer huffman israel jackson lee jeffries johnson (ga) johnson, e. b. kaptur keating kelly (il) kildee kilmer kind kirkpatrick kuster langevin larsen (wa) larson (ct) lawrence lee levin lewis lipinski loebsack lofgren lowenthal lowey lujan grisham (nm) lujan, ben ray (nm) lynch maloney, carolyn maloney, sean mccollum mcdermott mcnerney meeks meng moore moulton murphy (fl) nadler napolitano nolan norcross o'rourke pallone pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters pingree pocan polis price (nc) quigley rangel rice (ny) roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger rush ryan (oh) sanchez, linda t. sanchez, loretta sarbanes schakowsky schiff scott (va) serrano sherman sinema sires slaughter smith (nj) speier swalwell (ca) takai takano thompson (ca) thompson (ms) titus tonko torres tsongas van hollen vargas velazquez visclosky wasserman schultz waters, maxine watson coleman welch wilson (fl) yarmuth not voting--14 ashford bishop (ga) conyers dingell kennedy knight lieu, ted matsui mcgovern neal palazzo richmond smith (wa) westmoreland announcement by the speaker pro tempore the speaker pro tempore (during the vote). there are 2 minutes remaining. {time} 1155 mr. veasey changed his vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.'' so the joint resolution was passed. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. stated for: mr. yoho. mr. speaker, on rollcall no. 45, on s.j. res. 22, i missed the vote. had i been present, i would have voted ``yes.'' personal explanation mr. knight. mr. speaker, on wednesday, january 13th, i had to return to the district to attend to urgent constituent business related to the aliso canyon gas leak. had i been present for the day's vote series, i would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall no. 44, the passage of s.j. res. 22, providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, united states code, of the rule submitted by the corps of engineers and the environmental protection agency relating to the definition of ``waters of the united states'' under the federal water pollution control act; and ``yea'' on rollcall no. 45, the passage of h.r. 3662 or the iran terror finance transparency act. ____________________