[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 12 (Tuesday, January 23, 2024)]
[Senate]
[Pages S208-S209]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I would like to turn briefly to another
urgent topic. We must restore order at our southern border and enforce
our immigration laws in a fair and humane way. That is why the Senate
has been engaged in bipartisan talks on a path forward for weeks.
The Republican Governor of Texas takes a much different view. He has
implemented cruel--even deadly--and ineffective immigration policies
that sow chaos, risk lives, and prevent Federal border officials from
doing their jobs.
Last week, a woman and two children tragically died in the Rio Grande
River while Mexican authorities rescued other migrants in distress. The
U.S. Border Patrol could not reach these migrants in need because the
Texas National Guard actively blocked access to the Rio Grande River.
This is just the latest tragedy resulting from Governor Abbott's
policies.
As part of its so-called Operation Lone Star, Texas has strung razor
wire along the border which has seriously injured migrants, and it has
dropped migrant children off at truck stops in Illinois in subzero
temperatures. We warned him. The Governor of Illinois warned Governor
Abbott of Texas that if you haphazardly drop these migrants off in
Chicago at this time of year, terrible things can occur. A few weeks
ago, a little boy died. God knows who others were in danger because of
the Governor of Texas and his strategy.
Texas passed a new law that makes it a State crime to cross the
border without inspection and recently began arresting immigrants who
crossed the border, placing them into State custody. Governor Abbott
defends these policies, even though there is zero evidence they deter
migrants from crossing the border.
We must discourage migrants from risking their lives by approaching
the United States between ports of entry, but we cannot stand by while
Governor Abbott increases the likelihood of injury or death. Despite
their desperation to reach safety, most migrants wish to enter the
United States lawfully. Many wait months at our border for appointments
to make asylum claims.
In defending his policies, the Governor of Texas recently bragged:
[T]he only thing that we're not doing is we're not shooting
people who come across the border, because of course the
Biden Administration would charge us with murder.
This is a direct quote from Governor Abbott.
His actions are not only dangerous and cruel, they are
unconstitutional. Under our Constitution, States do not have the right
to pass their own laws preempting Federal laws on immigration.
Just yesterday, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Federal
Government, allowing Border Patrol agents to cut through or remove
razor wire that the Governor of Texas installed on the border.
As former Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote in his opinion in Arizona v.
United States, which found parts of Arizona's anti-immigration law
unconstitutional:
[T]he history of the United States is in part made of the
stories, talents, and lasting contributions of those who
crossed oceans and deserts to come here.
With that sentiment in mind, Congress must do its job and pass
immigration laws that honor our history as a nation of immigrants and
provide the critical resources necessary to address the challenges at
our border.
I guess I pretty well know, as chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee in favor of immigration--legal immigration--to this country,
I believe immigration is a critical element of who we are and what we
will become. It is part of our past, and it should be part of our
future.
My mother was an immigrant to this country, and I have never
forgotten it. I am lucky to be standing here today as a U.S. Senator,
because her parents had the courage to come to a country where they
didn't speak the language in the hopes of a better life for her and her
children. One of her children is now standing in the U.S. Senate.
I believe that is part of America's history, but there are certain
elements which we must acknowledge. No. 1, the United States cannot
absorb all of the people who want to come to this country at this
moment. We have to have an orderly process that makes sense not only
for the migrants but that also makes sense for America, first and
foremost. We have to be cognizant and sensitive to our Nation's safety
and security. That is No. 1. We should never knowingly allow anyone to
come to this country who would cause us harm.
Secondly, we have to make sure that those who come will add to
America, and I believe most will. If given a chance, they will become
part of our economy, even starting at the lowest levels and working
their way up. It is the story of immigration in America.
In addition to that, we need to work with other countries to regulate
the flow of refugees. The refugee crisis in the world today is the
worst it has ever been, and we are seeing it evidenced in the fact that
those who present themselves at our southern border are often from
places like China and Asia and Africa, and they find their way to the
Mexican border with the United States in the hopes of a future. We need
an orderly process.
We also need to make sure that we have the legal authorization of
people to come to this country to work. I can't tell you how many
people in Illinois have come to me and said: We are desperate for
workers. Americans won't fill these jobs, and we need people who will.
All the way up from farming to industry, that is the story, and that is
the reality.
[[Page S209]]
What we need to do is come to an agreement that is sensible here, a
bipartisan agreement, and do it quickly. The numbers approaching our
border are so overwhelming, we have no choice but to do that.
I want to work on a bipartisan basis with those in good faith and
good will who will recognize that immigration is not only our history
but our future, but it must be in an orderly fashion. That is what I am
looking for, and I think America is as well.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so
ordered.
____________________