[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 13 (Wednesday, January 24, 2024)]
[Senate]
[Pages S237-S240]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
U.S. Supreme Court
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam President, let me get to the point at hand. I
[[Page S238]]
am back now for the 27th time to call attention to the rightwing
billionaires' scheme to capture and control our Supreme Court and
connect it to things that are going on at the Court right now.
The billionaire elite that captured our Supreme Court wants to use it
to attack Americans' ability--our ability as a people--through
regulation, to protect our own health and safety, and the goal, mostly,
is to benefit the big polluters in their midst.
A word on regulation: As modern innovations have raised the standard
of living in the United States and around the world and corporations
have grown to international behemoths and billionaires have claimed for
themselves a larger and larger share of the world's wealth, regulation
has come to have a very important role.
Big corporations' well-known motive to maximize profits, I should
say, inevitably causes dangers to society. If you think of a big
industrial plant that without oversight would leach chemical byproducts
into the soil and water, poison wells, and spread cancer, you have got
an idea of why regulation is needed.
Over many decades, Congress created administrative Agencies to
perform this task, staffed by scientists and other experts to use their
expertise to manage and rein in these industrial dangers. The American
system of regulation made our society safer and more prosperous.
Period.
As heavy equipment and dangerous chemicals came to mines and
factories and construction sites, regulators implemented workplace
safety standards. The meatpacking jungle led to sanitation requirements
in production facilities. Automobile highway carnage produced seatbelts
and airbags. Stockjobbing ``boiler rooms'' and insurance fraud provoked
regulations to protect investors and insureds.
What has been the result? Workplace illnesses, injuries, and deaths
declined. Foodborne illnesses that used to kill thousands of people per
year have been practically wiped out. Highways are no longer carnage;
boilers rarely explode; and medications and stock offerings and
insurance policies are all safer for consumers.
And, by the way, in this environment of safety, corporate profits
soared. The S&P 500 has returned an excess of 7,800 percent. Clean air
and clean water and safe food and cars are actually good for business.
Regulation is good. Regulation is a public good.
But a gang of recalcitrant polluters is in the crew that captured the
Supreme Court. And they want not only to pollute for free, they want to
pollute without expert regulation.
Well, even Republican Congresses wouldn't go for that so they turned
to their captured, unaccountable Court.
First, they got the Court to create a brandnew, so-called major
questions doctrine, basically a too-big-to-regulate escape hatch for
big polluters. And now they are using their captured Court to attack
another precedent, the legal doctrine known as Chevron deference, which
is pretty simple: Unless the law is clear, on technical matters courts
defer to the Agency experts.
This arrangement makes sense. Congress isn't suited and usually
hasn't the expertise to make fine, technical determinations. So to prop
up their attack on this commonsense principle, polluters have invented
some fake arguments.
A few years ago, these industries and their rightwing front groups
began arguing that Chevron deference has a separation-of-powers
problem. It may make all the sense in the world, but it has a
separation-of-powers problem that courts must attend to because they
say it gives unchecked and disproportionate power to the executive
branch.
The problem with that argument is that it is just not true. It is
flatout false. Congress's legislative grant of administrative authority
to Agencies comes with significant checks and balances. I am not going
to go into all the details, but for starters, Agency heads are
appointed by an elected President and confirmed by an elected Senate.
And Agencies may not promulgate rules willy-nilly; they have to take
public notice and comments.
And Agency rules are subject to judicial review to make sure they are
consistent with the rules and the Administrative Procedures Act and the
public information and comment and the evidence. That helps make sure
that regulations by law have to be both reasonable and consistent with
the evidence and the facts.
And in Congress, when all that is going on, we exercised direct
oversight over these administrative Agencies. We do it through our
oversight committees that have specific jurisdiction on specific
Agencies. We do it through the appropriations process. Very often you
see appropriations riders to control Agency behavior.
And we do it through the expedited review of the Congressional Review
Act, which we are seeing a lot of now in the Senate, and it allows for
a very quick review by Congress of a challenged Agency rule. And, in
fact, Congress has used that process to overturn Agency rules 20 times
since 2001.
The legal vehicle for the polluters' attack on Chevron comes in a
case called Loper Bright Enterprises. As usual, where polluter
interests are involved, this case brought out a rogue's gallery of what
I would call the ``usual suspects''--front groups that have spent
decades trying to dismantle the government's ability to regulate the
big industries that secretly fund the front groups.
They arrived at the captured Court at the end of a long process that
began with industry-funded think tanks that reverse-engineered fringe
ideas and legal theories that will serve rightwing donor interests.
Then those fringe ideas and legal theories cooked up in the doctrine
factories get taken into other think tanks and around captured trade
associations and bounced around and put more and more into the public
debate and, ultimately, once they have been credentialed by this echo
chamber of front groups, they get pushed--these manufactured legal
theories get pushed into courtrooms around the country, very often,
through coordinated flotillas of secretly funded amicus briefs.
There is a whole ecosystem of secretly funded corporate front groups
that manage this whole process. It seems complicated, but it is less
complicated than a piano and people know how to play pianos.
Now, much of this is funded by the Koch Brothers--now one is
deceased--but the Koch Industries, a political influence operation,
which is a powerful, rightwing, dark money political network.
Look at this Loper case. The lawyers who represent the petitioners in
this case are working for free--supposedly--ostensibly for a public
interest law firm called Cause of Action.
This supposed public interest law firm discloses no donors and does
not report any employees. As the New York Times discovered in this
article, those lawyers actually work for Americans for Prosperity, the
central battleship of the Koch Brothers' political front group armada.
That armada, by the way, is very cozy with some of the far-right
Justices of the Supreme Court. Indeed, ProPublica has reported that
Justice Clarence Thomas has repeatedly flown out to serve as the
celebrity draw for the Koch political operations fundraisers, including
funding that landed at Americans for Prosperity. As is now standard
practice in these cases, a flotilla of dark money front groups appeared
as amici curiae--purporting to be independent but actually with
enormous common funding and orchestration. These front groups are
frequent flyers that spout anti-regulation arguments before the Supreme
Court regularly, like, for instance, the major questions doctrine I
mentioned earlier. From the creation of these doctrines in rightwing
hothouses, through their amplification via rightwing front groups, to
their insertion into legal arguments by rightwing amici, the common
thread through the whole process is massive, secret funding from
billionaire special interests.
The amici supporting petitioners in the Loper case include the
Buckeye Institute, the Cato Institute, the Competitive Enterprise
Institute, the Landmark Legal Foundation, the Mountain States Legal
Foundation, the National Right to Work Legal Defense Foundation, the
New Civil Liberties Alliance, the Pacific Legal Foundation, and, of
course, our friends at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. All of them have
received hundreds of thousands, sometimes millions of dollars from
these rightwing donors--from DonorsTrust,
[[Page S239]]
from Donors Capital Fund, from the Koch family foundations, from the
Bradley Foundation, and in some cases, from good old ExxonMobil itself.
These two--DonorsTrust and Donors Capital Fund--are donor-advised
funds that allow ultrawealthy interests to direct funding anonymously
to their pet projects. They are essentially identity laundering
operations. The money comes in from the donor who wants to be secret.
It lands at DonorsTrust. They in turn give it under their own name. The
recipient gets it, and there is no record of who the true donor was.
DonorsTrust has been described as the ``dark-money ATM of the
right,'' and, with Donors Capital, it has laundered over a third of a
trillion dollars--a third of a trillion dollars--into climate denial
operations.
Many of these same amici also received Koch Family Foundation funding
and Bradley Foundation funding. Those are two other top-10 funders of
climate denial. Fossil fuel corporations like ExxonMobil have also
directly funded some of these amici.
This is an operation. This is a part of a scheme.
ExxonMobil has given significant money to the Cato Institute, the
Competitive Enterprise Institute, the Landmark Legal Foundation, and
the Mountain States Legal Foundation, as well as the Pacific Legal
Foundation--and that is what we know. There could be other money that
went through DonorsTrust, for instance, and into these groups and the
ExxonMobil name was laundered off the funding.
Some of these amici also received funding from groups affiliated with
Leonard Leo. Leonard Leo has been the operative for the billionaires in
the Court-capture operation.
This is a chart of some--some--of the front groups that Leo
coordinates.
This question of capturing the Court in order to undermine public
safety regulations? Trump White House Counsel Don McGahn actually
called these two operations ``two sides of the same coin.'' We have it
from inside the White House that these schemes are coordinated.
The Loper amicus, Advancing American Freedom, received $1.5 million
from Leonard Leo's Concord Fund--this group--between 2020 and 2021.
Leo's Concord Fund operates under the fictitious name Judicial Crisis
Network and, operating under that fictitious name, spent millions of
dollars on Court capture--for instance, on advertisements for the
rightwing nominees to flood the airwaves with TV ads supporting them.
By the way, it also supports Republican State attorneys general, who
then challenge Federal regulations the billionaires don't like before
the sympathetic judges who were put on courts through this operation.
Just to give you an idea, the Concord Fund and the 85 Fund are the
two kind of base entities. They operate out of the same location with
overlapping staff and funders and directors. I would argue that the
corporate veil between the two could be pierced with a banana.
The operation of these two entities--a conjoined 501(c)(3) and
501(c)4--then has these different legs. Each one of these six legs is a
fictitious name--a fictitious name filed under Virginia corporate law--
through which these entities operate. It is not a separate thing. It is
just a fictitious name for--in this case, Judicial Education Project
for the 85 Fund.
So these eight organizations are, in effect, the same organization,
and out of it, money gets pumped up to these entities, which are
Leonard Leo's means of extracting wealth for himself for his services
provided in making sure that this piece of his operation can go forward
and help capture the Court.
So that is the background of all of this.
So when the Judicial Crisis Network shows up here, it is a pretty
significant tell that there is more going on here than just independent
organizations bringing their views to the Supreme Court.
It is not enough to flood the Supreme Court with this fake onslaught
of coordinated amici curiae; there has also been a coordinated
editorial campaign. In fact, it has been hard to miss the editorial
campaign launched to create favorable ideological terrain for the
captured Court's Justices to end Chevron deference.
The rightwing apparatus has cranked out op-eds in just about every
major publication across the country in the past week. It has been a
surge of propaganda pushing that falsehood about unaccountable
bureaucrats.
One particularly odious editorial appeared in the pro-polluter Wall
Street Journal editorial page. I refer to it just generally as ``the
polluter page'' because that is its reason for being. It was written in
the Wall Street Journal editorial page by Mr. David Rivkin.
Mr. Rivkin is described as follows by the Wall Street Journal:
Mr. Rivkin served at the Justice Department and the White
House Counsel's Office in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush
administrations.
But he has done so much more. For instance, he is Leonard Leo's
personal lawyer. This guy, with what my office refers to as the ``Leo
bug'' of phony front groups, has this guy, who authored the Wall Street
Journal editorial, as his personal lawyer.
By the way, Rivkin is the same guy who several months back gave
Justice Alito a very friendly interview right in this Wall Street
Journal editorial page to justify Alito's undisclosed travel on a
private jet on a freebie trip accompanied by--oh--Leonard Leo, no less.
He is the same guy who, in a current case before the Supreme Court,
before Alito, who has not recused himself, is attempting to secure an
enormous tax giveaway for billionaires.
Rivkin's cosigner, Mr. Grossman, Andrew Grossman, is described as ``a
senior legal fellow at the Buckeye Institute and an adjunct scholar at
the Cato Institute.'' OK, that is a pretty fair description.
By the way, if you go back here--there is the Buckeye Institute, and
there is the Cato Institute. They have already briefed the case. The
lawyer who writes the brief is now just pumping his own amicus brief in
the Wall Street Journal editorial page with the lawyer for Leonard Leo,
who did Justice Alito the big favor of trying to head off a Senate
investigation into Alito's travels. So it is a pretty rich mix.
If you look at all of this, what you discover is that this whole
scheme is actually pulled off by a very small number of people on the
billionaires' payroll. They are very busy constantly switching hats and
running multiple front groups out of the same enterprise so that it
looks like there is more, filing multiple briefs in a Supreme Court
case so it looks like there is more, but it is actually a pretty small,
billionaire-funded operation. It has just been diabolically effective,
and it has begun to pay off for the billionaires.
In West Virginia v. EPA, the Supreme Court hobbled Agency authority
to regulate for our public health and safety by adopting what they
called the major questions doctrine--the same one I mentioned earlier--
and that in turn has prompted an onslaught of challenges to
administrative regulatory authority from which the administrative law
legal landscape is still reeling. There is enormous upheaval from that
novel doctrine imported by the billionaire-selected Justices of the
Supreme Court into American law.
It would actually add insult to that injury for the Court to break
even more precedent by attacking Chevron. Frankly, they may not really
even need to because the major questions doctrine is such a powerful
weapon in their hands against administrative safety regulation that
they may not actually need to do much damage to Chevron. They have a
weapon. But it looks from the argument like the Court is actually
poised to attack Chevron deference. If it does, it not only will add to
the dangers to Americans' health and safety, against which regulation
protects, but it will also move the unaccountable Supreme Court further
into the policymaking function properly left under the American system
of government to the elected political branches.
In short, it is a power grab by the unelected judicial branch at the
behest of and for the benefit of polluter billionaires, and they have
done this on the specious grounds--the false grounds--that these
administrative Agencies are unaccountable.
Well, even if that claim were true, it is hardly solved by moving the
locus of decision to the least accountable part of the government--to
the U.S. Supreme Court. If your problem is that
[[Page S240]]
decisions are being made in unaccountable fashion by bureaucrats, then
moving it to even less accountable judges is not a solution to the
problem.
But the fact of the matter is that they are wrong about the
bureaucrats because of the CRA, because of the Administrative
Procedures Act, because of the appropriations process, because of
congressional oversight, and because of executive appointment to the
control of these Agencies. It just ain't so, but it is a lie that is
repeated and repeated and repeated and begins to be echoed by the
Justices of the captured Court.
To sum up, by all appearances, a Koch operation-funded legal theory
supported by Koch operation-funded amici is about to be deployed by
Koch operation-funded lawyers to convince Koch operation-funded
Justices to achieve a longstanding goal of Koch industries: the ability
to pollute more easily and more cheaply.
To twist American law through those techniques for that purpose is a
deeply degraded thing. It would be a tragedy for the American people.
But do you know what? It is the scheme in a nutshell. It is why all the
effort was put together--the hundreds of millions of dollars were
spent--to capture and control the U.S. Supreme Court for the benefit of
a small cabal of creepy billionaires.
To be continued.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. LEE. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.