[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 13 (Wednesday, January 24, 2024)]
[Senate]
[Pages S227-S228]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Supplemental Funding
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, well, the latest round of Ukrainian
security assistance was a $250 million package that included 155mm
rounds, Stinger anti-aircraft missiles, and other critical weapons that
have been crucial for Ukraine on the battlefield. That announcement was
made on December 27. That is 28 days ago--4 weeks. Since then, no more
aid--no more aid--has been sent to Ukraine. And there won't be more
unless Congress acts.
In the meantime, it has been reported that Russia is beginning to
restock its own supplies with help from North Korea, including North
Korean missiles.
Right now, Senate negotiators on both sides are working furiously to
approve another round of Ukraine aid by finalizing our national
security supplemental package. This package would not only deliver a
lifeline for Ukraine, it would secure our border, send aid to Israel,
provide humanitarian assistance for innocent civilians in Gaza, and
shore up security in the Indo-Pacific. Our supplemental is a
prescription for addressing America's top security threats around the
globe.
Now, it has been a busy and productive week for the negotiators. They
have continued working nonstop on issues that are still outstanding.
Each
[[Page S228]]
day, we get a little closer, but there are still issues to be resolved.
But one thing is certain: We are going to keep going to get this done.
I have remained in touch with my Senate colleagues, with Leader
McConnell, and the White House every step of the way. The goal, of
course, is to come up with a proposal that can get at least 60 votes in
the Senate. That means both sides must accept they won't get everything
they want. It means that maximalist demands, stonewall tactics, and
attempts to sabotage negotiations before they even finish must be
shunned by the membership of this body. There is too much at stake to
play those games.
There are some on the fringes who are, unfortunately, though, trying
to do precisely that: to sink this supplemental package from afar. But
in the Senate, both sides have an obligation to ensure those voices
stay in the minority. Many of the voices who are making suggestions
that they don't like are not voting for this anyway--anyway.
It is not going to be easy to get over the finish line. But Senate
Democrats are going to stay the course--stay the course--until the job
is done.
President Biden, on numerous occasions, has stated he is willing to
work with Republicans in a big way on immigration. And for over 2
months, Democrats have shown we are serious about reaching an agreement
by remaining at the negotiating table. So we will keep going because
Senators don't need to be reminded of the consequences should we fail.
Like I said, the last round of Ukrainian aid happened on December 27.
If we don't act, Ukraine will fall and make the world a much more
dangerous place for America. And every day, Americans will feel the
impact--not years but months away.
Since the start of the war, Putin has bet that sooner or later, the
United States would throw in the towel. They doubt Western resolve.
They doubt American strength. Just last month, Putin speculated on
Russian television that ``the free stuff is going to run out some day,
and it seems it already is.'' That is what Putin is saying. He is
gloating that we are not giving Ukraine the aid it needs. His allies
are certainly helping him.
The Senate has an obligation to make sure Putin regrets the day he
questioned America's resolve, and that is putting the focus on what we
are doing in this Chamber.
We have an obligation to answer the call to defend democracy in its
hour of need. We have an obligation to help our friends fighting for
their survival.
We must--must--finish the work on the supplemental. We are not there
yet, but we will continue working.