nearly 250 years ago, delegates from the 13 american colonies gathered in philadelphia to sign a revolutionary document declaring that they were no longer subjects, but free to choose their own destiny. that document would come to me known as the declaration of independence and those men, the founding fathers. applause gentlemen, those of us who have put our names to this declaration are now enemies of the crown, especially me, john hancock, because i wrote my name the biggest. yeah, we saw that. but what you say is true. we must indeed all hang together or most assuredly, we shall all hang separately. what say you, alexander hamilton? applause what do you want, sir? by say, our lives matter not if we lose them in the cause of liberty. what matters is the nation we build. yeah, hey, hey, hey. because in america, all men are created equal. america, not england. we do win the sequel, and we will have leaders, but no one thing in america, we will never have a king. never say never. getting, of course, though, in many ways, i am not. i am in my king era. but just like the founding fathers, i am creating a new country as well. and just like them, we are doing it very widely. dei is over. it is dead workplaces. we must go back to looking like the tv show, the office. mostly white people, but with one funny black guy who is having a really bad time. we need to bring back stanley culture, right? in terms of crossword, and with regard to pretzel day. look at lynn. he got tricked into coming here, and now he is frozen on stage, oh, he is frozen. but i am back in the white house just in time. everything is back to how it was, except now my new favorite son is baron. and he is smacking his head on every doorframe. oh, it is bad. sleikman gandalf goes to bilbo's house. and the inauguration was a tremendous success. it was inside due to cold and fear. but we had a lot of surprise guests like melania. that was nice. melania showed up to my inauguration dressed like frankly, kang lau from mortal kombat. and you know, i had to put my nerd herd in the front row. brola garx before holy garx. i have been saying it. we are saying it a lot. zach bezos, tim apple, and of course elon. we love elon, but to quote some of his own children, i do not want him in my life. they say he did the nazis, salute. not true, okay? he simply was creating a new greeting across between high and hello. we are calling it a hile. lynn, what do you think? did he do it? i think he did it a little bit. but it is been a great first week. i have done more in the past four years than sleepy joe and i cannot allow it. in the past four years. all thanks to my beautiful executive orders. from now on, there will be two genders, one to work and one to cook. and we are done with lgbt. no more drag, no more guys and wigs, no more. whatever these guys were wearing. what a weird way to dress, right? a little zesty. darling, i am off to start america. hand me my wig and my tights and my big blousey shirts. so we are going to go back to common sense in regards to gender. and the women will wear the makeup. no more makeup on men, unless you need it to be president. also, we are pulling out of paris climate agreement. we are pulling out of world health organization using something i call the pull-out method. something, frankly, i wish i did a lot more in the 1980s. aaron. but as much as i have already accomplished, there is still so much to be done. i know i said i would end the war in ukraine in 24 hours. i did not say which 24 hours. also, i have to ensure that all of my cabinet positions are filled. we are filling my cabinet with some of the best people. they are all very good except for most of them. oh, man, what is essin el going to do? who is going to play hagseth? i mean, look at these guys back here. none of them got the build. nobody has the jaw. got plenty of zuckerberg options, though. that is going to be a fight. oh, how great is pete hagseth? he said he was going to stop drinking if he got the job and that is all i needed to hear. i will never drink again. the famous promise people make right into the toilet. good luck with that. oh, look at lynn. look out, baddie. what is the do-a-rap? he wrote a whole wrap and he does not get to do it. oh, the audience would have eaten that right up. but we are not going to hear it. he is in sniffing distance of an egot and he is got to stand there till i am done. lynny, lynny, lynny, lynny. laura lynny. lynn manwell, miranda cosgrove. with such a miranda. well, in conclusion, it is been a great week. i basically hit all my campaign promises except for the one people cared about price of eggs. all time high, who would have thought it would be easier to get a ceasefire in gaza than bring down the price of eggs. i would have to take the aisle on that one. you know, we are looking into some fabulous alternative egg options such as seagall or perhaps catbury. well, lynn, you have been a great sport. frankly, a really good friend. i want to thank him for his generous, anonymous $1 million donation to my campaign. i know that was you, lynny. no, it was not. you are worth against mine. and i am the new yorker slime.