angus king. the dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. the occasion is piled high with difficulty and therefore we must rise with the occasion. as our cases knew so we must think anew and act anew. we must disenfrawl ourselves and then we shall save our country. that was abraham lincoln december 2, 1862. in the midst of the greatest crisis this country has ever faced and the problem and the crisis and the challenge we face now of course does not rise to the level of the civil war but it is pretty damn serious. we are facing challenges that are unprecedented. i believe we are facing the greatest set of challenges since world war 2. we are facing a change, economy, a change world, threats from countries we have not even heard of. and yet in times like these, in the history of this country we seem to have gotten the leaders that we need. and i think this is a similar moment here in man. we can only face these challenges together and we cannot do it by calling each other names and by calling into question each other's motives and motivations. almost 40 years ago, not almost exactly 40 years ago, this past weekend. edmund muskie, sad and gus barber's living room in cape elizabeth and talked to america. and he talked to them about the negative tone of the 1970 midterm elections. here's what he said and it echoes today. there has been name calling and deception of almost unprecedented volume. people, men have been slandered, faithful servants of the country have their motives questioned and their patriotism doubted. i am just glad that ed muskie is not here to see what is happened in the last six months in the state of maine. he went on to conclude his speech, though, on a hopeful note. we can work to restore a sense of shared purpose and of great enterprise. we can bring back the belief, not only in a better and more noble future, but in our own power to make it so. our country is wounded and confused, but it is also charged with greatness and with the possibility of greatness. we cannot realize that possibility if we are afraid. or if we consume our energies in hostility and accusation. i am here in part tonight because of a mailer i got last week. and the mailer told me that i should not be for elliot because he knew something about china. and i read it and i said, wait a minute, let us do the math. five percent is the number i have for you today. five percent is the percentage of the world's population that lives in north america. that means 95 percent of the world is someplace else. and 95 percent of the markets is someplace else. and elliot was even criticized for bringing a group of food dealers from china in order to sell them lobsters. i did a calculation if one in 1000 chinese has one lobster roll a week, we will be the richest state in america.