[congressional record volume 170, number 10 (thursday, january 18, 2024)] [house] [pages h193-h194] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] diabetic shoes the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from oregon (mr. blumenauer) for 5 minutes. mr. blumenauer. mr. speaker, as i face the last 50 weeks as a member of this congress, i am appalled at the amount of time we waste on performances on things that will never become law, that should not become law, and, in fact, the american public does not care that much about. however, yesterday, the front page of the new york times was something that people should care about, talking about the problem of diabetes and the complications that can lead to amputations, especially among men. it is no secret we are facing an epidemic of diabetes. nearly 15 percent of american adults, more than 38 million people, have diabetes, and it is even worse among americans 65 years or older, with a rate of nearly 30 percent. it is the eighth leading cause of death in the united states. right now, we are marking up a commission to deal with the budget deficit in our budget committee. the direct and indirect costs of diabetes alone in 2022 were $413 billion, and the extra costs for a diabetes patient were more than $12,000 per patient. we should make improvements in delivery that prevent the disease and the progression, not only for the health of [[page h194]] the patient but also for our healthcare system. type 2 diabetes is a huge factor dealing with modern diet and our health habits. these factors, combined with genetics and limited access to healthcare, can make it a challenge to control blood sugar levels and contribute to the progression of the disease. it can result in serious, life-threatening consequences on relatively minor events. people can have a problem with their foot. it starts small with some nerve damage and maybe a foot ulcer, but it explodes, if untreated, to more intense conditions like gangrene and requires amputation to save the life of the patient. nearly half of diabetes patients develop this nerve damage, and many go on to develop the foot ulcers i referenced. it is worse for people of color. african americans are two to three times more likely to need an amputation. when we know that millions of americans suffer from diabetes and face dire complications, why would not we take the opportunity to do everything in our power to limit the progression of the disease? there are, in fact, low-cost solutions that can remedy the situation. one that i have been working on for several years is a simple treatment of diabetic shoes, which deal with the foot conditions that are such a problem for people with diabetes, that can help prevent the problems that lead to those amputations. unfortunately, diabetic shoes require a prescription from a doctor. i mean, it is not rocket science. it could be done by a nurse practitioner or by a physician assistant, but we do not allow that. it is also an extra barrier for people who have problems navigating the healthcare system; they might give up or ignore it. it results in extra cost and extra time. these delays can have profound consequences, as i mentioned. it is not a barrier for people with private insurance; if they needed these shoes when they were at 64, it would not be a problem. congressman lahood and i have a simple legislative fix to address this unnecessary quirk in our healthcare system. it would allow nurse practitioners and physicians assistants to satisfy the documentation requirements, at no extra cost to the patient, no extra delays, and do it directly. you should not need a doctor to prescribe these shoes. this is just one of dozens of examples of commonsense, bipartisan reforms that will reduce spending, improve outcomes, and, in fact, save lives and limbs. i hope we can focus on simple, commonsense things like this that are bipartisan in nature that are not expensive and that make sense. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this legislation to save a life and save a limb. ____________________