[congressional record volume 170, number 17 (tuesday, january 30, 2024)] [house] [pages h277-h278] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] the future of ukraine and israel and border security the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from california (mr. costa) for 5 minutes. mr. costa. mr. speaker, it has been 112 days since hamas' horrific attacks against israel on october 7. it has also been 1 year and 11 months since putin launched his brutal invasion against ukraine. the world is on fire with conflict, and democratic countries are under attack. for months, ukraine and israel aid has been held hostage by a significant number of my republican colleagues who appear to have taken the side of russia. putin and iran's ayatollah are enjoying these political fights, which is only giving them an advantage. these war criminals--i am talking about putin and the ayatollah--are seizing on opportunities regardless of the cost. just as iran has enabled their terrorist proxies, the houthis are attacking our military. our actions today will determine the future success of democracies and free societies around the world. that is really what is at stake. i have been to ukraine twice in the last year. i have been to israel many times. democracy is critical in those parts of the world. they share our values and freedoms that we cherish. i have been to gaza where hamas has oppressed the palestinian people with poverty, violence, and a lack of opportunity. they have used them as human shields. we must help the palestinian people out of this horrific situation starting with humanitarian aid. the palestinians have a right to determine their own future under a two-state solution. we need to pass a supplemental aid package to provide immediate assistance as we have before in a bipartisan effort. we need to equip ukraine and israel with critical security and military needs to defend their sovereignties. by the way, when we do this, we defend our democracy and democracies around the world. we do this in our own interests. we need humanitarian aid for the palestinians and armenian refugees removed from their historical home in nagorno-karabakh. these are all part of what the supplemental package does. by the way, it provides assistance for taiwan. all this costs the united states less than 1 percent of our gdp without any u.s. troops on the ground. let me repeat that: it costs less than 1 percent of our gdp. no u.s. troops are being impacted directly. ukraine has regained 50 percent of the land russia originally took, and they have reopened the black sea to export grain. these are the impacts on russia: russia has lost over 315,000 troops and two-thirds of their pre-invasion tanks. mr. speaker, this has been a very good deal for our adversary, russia. for us, the ukrainian president has said in this chamber 2 years ago that [[page h278]] this was an investment in global security and democracy. we need to get the hostages released by hamas. israel has been working on that, and there are negotiations taking place right now. we know that with the recent election in taiwan, as a prime example, there is a new chapter in their future democracy. be that as it may, we must send a strong message to putin of russia, to xi of china, and the ayatollah of iran and its terrorist proxies, like hezbollah and hamas. these are adversaries of the united states, and, therefore, we must be together as a country and as americans in a bipartisan fashion. so house republicans who are demanding border security in exchange for this package, it has been put on the table. we are negotiating it. nevertheless, if they are serious about border security, i think they would want to work and see the final language on the product that the senate is working on before condemning it and criticizing it. democrats have put forth dozens of bipartisan bills, like the american dream and promise act and the farmworker modernization act, none of which have been brought forth for a vote, and many of them are bipartisan. as the bipartisan group of senators finalize their border deal, unfortunately, extreme maga republicans and donald trump want to torpedo it; for what? it is for political reasons. the border is a problem. we agree; and we have a legislative solution before us. it is the height of hypocrisy to say: no. we are not going to do anything right now. it really is a problem. it really is a problem, but we are going to wait 10 months. what is wrong with us? the american public gets this. president biden is ready to sign this deal in its current form to address the surge of migrants, hire more border patrol agents, and combat the flow of fentanyl and human trafficking. he is willing to do that now. we ought to be working together and not waiting for an election after november. congress cannot lose sight of what is at stake. we can walk, talk, and chew gum at the same time. we can get assistance to ukraine and israel along with border security. that is our job. that is what we are supposed to do. by the way, we can get a budget, too. this congress is doing nothing, absolutely nothing. so let us stop with the politics. our national security depends upon it. let us get a deal done. ____________________