[congressional record volume 170, number 17 (tuesday, january 30, 2024)] [house] [pages h276-h277] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] {time} 1015 honoring minnesota law enforcement on january fentanyl seizure the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. craig) for 5 minutes. ms. craig. mr. speaker, i rise today to recognize a group of minnesota heroes. earlier this month, the washington county drug task force, made up of law enforcement from dakota, ramsey, and washington counties, successfully executed the largest fentanyl seizure in minnesota history. the officers seized over 30,000 grams of fentanyl pills and charged six individuals for their role in trafficking these drugs. it is difficult to comprehend the devastation that could have befallen these families if those pills had reached our community. in minnesota, we know that fighting the fentanyl crisis will require all members of our communities to do their part. from those dedicated members of minnesota law enforcement to the parents and advocates who have shared their stories with me, to the educators working to raise awareness about the dangers of illicit drugs, we all have a [[page h277]] role to play in saving lives and addressing this crisis. that is why i am working across the aisle to expand overdose prevention tools and hold drug traffickers accountable. a grateful community thanks every member of law enforcement for the work they do every day to keep our communities safe. israeli hostages ms. craig. mr. speaker, i rise today to share the story of naama levy. naama is just 19 years old. before october 7, she was full of joy with dreams of helping people in need. she was last recorded on a cell phone being dragged by her hair at gunpoint, injured and bound by hamas terrorists in gaza. on october 7, naama and more than 240 other men, women, and children were kidnapped from their homes and their communities, as even more innocent people were killed, sexually assaulted, and tortured. naama and 135 other hostages are still being held captive in gaza, enduring unspeakable trauma at the hands of hamas who refuse to let them go. i stand here today to demand that hamas release naama immediately with all of the other hostages, and i stand with israel as it works to destroy hamas and free naama and its other citizens wrongfully held by this terrorist group. it is past time that we bring naama home. we must bring them all home. support for credit unions ms. craig. mr. speaker, i rise today to thank the more than 4,700 credit unions across the country, including 86 chartered in my home state of minnesota. as not-for-profit, member-owned financial institutions, credit unions work every day to improve the financial well-being of american households and communities, including the nearly 300,000 credit union members in minnesota's second district. it is estimated that minnesota credit unions have provided more than $227 million in direct financial benefit to our state. local branches in the second congressional district have done important work helping customers gain early access to their paychecks, supporting local school athletic programs and veterans' organizations, and hosting community events. our credit unions have put community and customer trust first. this month credit unions in minnesota and nationwide will be represented by the newly launched america's credit unions to better serve the more than 140 million people who rely on them for financial well-being. i am a proud supporter of minnesota and america's credit unions in congress. ____________________