thank you, madam chair. the genies really out of the bottle on this now, so to speak, 150 million americans are now on tiktok. that is almost half of america. they are expressing themselves in art, music, poetry, short film, comedy, among other creative expressions, and many of them are inspiring, talented, young people. but we also, in the committee, recognize there is a darker side to it, right? since adult themes, drug and alcohol, sexualization, suicide, all major issues on tiktok, but also twitter, facebook, youtube, and other social media platforms. so the solution, as i see it, is to regulate tiktok and other social media platforms. and that job, mr. chu, as you know, really falls to us. there are real concerns. by parts and common ground we have already had. we had a federal device ban that was voted on bipartisan in the omnibus. and i co-introduced a bill with my dear friend, representative kamik, about notices of that federal ban. madam chair, i think the first key is privacy. we have to pass the comprehensive legislation that got out of this community, but eluded us in the last congress. i am really hoping we can get that done, and i am really excited about hearing that from folks. the other thing is that tiktok needs to be an american company with american values, and it ties to the chinese communist party. this is something that will be critical as we look and go forward. and then three, we all agree we have to protect our kids. the committee should consider banning the use for children under 13 of not just tiktok, but also social media platforms, or at least empower parents. in addition, have rules of the road for teens that are 13 to 17, so that families can do it right for their families. so for privacy, that is on us. internet privacy is on us. as far as being an american company, mr. chu, as you know, the committee on foreign investment in the united states at the department of treasury reviews foreign investment that affects national security. right now they have negotiated with your company about this oracle setup that you have talked about servers in american company in american texas, and then oracle would monitor the algorithms. but pressure is mounting. so mr. chu, would tiktok be prepared to divest from bite dance in chinese communist party ties if the department of treasury instructed you all to do so? a congressman, i said in my opening statement, i think we are need to address the problem of privacy i agree with you. i do not think ownership is the issue here with a lot of respect. american social companies do not have a good track record with data privacy and user security. i mean, look at facebook and cambridge and the litigah, just one example. so i do think that, you know, it is not about ownership, it is a lot about making sure we have project texas, making sure that we are protecting and firewalling us as user data for mount wanda for an access, giving third parties to come in to have a look at this, and making sure that everybody is comfortable. we are giving transparency and third party monitoring. and that is what we are doing for project texas. well, i would at least encourage you all to start having the dialogue. should that be where the president in the congress ends up going? the third thing is on parents. i had a constituent of mine, brandy of lake known as seyama, a parent of two teenagers, 14 and 18 years old, both of whom have been harmed by social media. tiktok's algorithm supply my 14 year old son with a continuous stream of inappropriate content and has negatively influenced his perception of all females. i noticed the attentions to the end of both of my teens' chains are decreased dramatically. and social media has made my daughter insecure leading to an eating disorder and ultimately depression. what safeguards do you have and what should we tell brandy of lake known about how we can help her protect her children? we have a differentiated experience. i mentioned just now about the experience if you are below 13, very, very restricted. if you are below 13 to 17 congressmen, we actually have a whole series of things. first the content that you see, we make sure that we remove things that could be mature things from your feet. we also, by default, do not allow under 16 to use direct messaging. we do not allow under 16 to, we set the accounts to private by default. they can go viral. if you are below 18, we shot off some features for you. for example, you are not allowed to post live streams. neither are you allowed to send virtual gifts. so we take this very seriously and we want to continue to build to ensure that we are giving our under 18 teenagers on our platform. although today, there are only a minority of our user base today, but we still take it very seriously. mr. chiu, i would encourage you to continue thinking about how to get the word out to parents across the nation on some of these tools as well. as we hear, craft a privacy law that will help provide well-needed regulation and social media companies across the nation. thank you. i know you will back. gentlemen, yields back. chair, recognize the gentleman from indiana.