members are reminded to refrain from engaging in personalities toward the president. under the speaker's announced policy of january 4, 2021, the gentleman from florida, mr. soto, is recognized for 60 minutes as the design of the majority leader. madam speaker, you are in luck. i heard a lot of complaints. no solutions. that is why my colleagues across the aisle lost the 2020 election miserably. we know what they are against. president biden said it best. what are the republicans for? what are they for? some of them joined us and some of the bills i am about to outline. but the rest of them, it is been nothing. meanwhile, democrats deliver. the american rescue plan, shots and arms, money and pockets. we stopped another great recession. can you imagine how we would be able to respond to delta or omicron without passing future relief? now unemployment's below 4%. we created over six nearly seven million jobs last year. in my district, we were devastated by the great recession for closures devastated central florida. this time around in 2021, for closures that are down from 2020. workers in central florida lost their homes. last time around, this time around we put a stop to it. house republicans voted no. yet republican governors took the american rescue plan money and responded to our nation's crisis. that is what we should all be doing. next we go to the bipartisan infrastructure framework. there is huge support among all americans to upgrade america, our roads and bridges, our ports and airports, our clean water, clean and resilient energy, rural broadband. i have both urban suburban and rural areas of the district and everyone regardless of their party background in my district is excited about this infrastructure. we have had meetings with local officials across the area and they are looking to work with us to upgrade america. according to republican senator rob portman, it helps fix supply chains in his counterinflationary. that is why 22 senators from their republican side voted yes and 10 republican colleagues here in the house voted yes. we applaud these 32 republicans for joining all democrats and voting for the infrastructure bill. what did the radical house republicans do? they attacked their own over infrastructure. what a sad, sad legacy that is. it did not stop a few of them from trying to take credit though. trying to take credit for projects despite voting no. but if you vote no and you try to take credit now, the message is clear. america will shame you every day, every time. and now we turn to the compete act. madam speaker, 32 republicans join with democrats to vote for the senate's version of this. testing domestic microchip manufacturing, which we do in our district and i am going to go a little more into that in a moment. improving supply chain for medical supplies like ppe, like vaccines, telecom, solar, all these critical issues. and yes, making us be able to compete against economic rivals like china, like russia and others who do not share our values. so in the senate, they are able to come together, the vast majority of them. and in the house, i hope we are. i hope we have a few of our colleagues. but then there is going to be a conference, right? we are going to conference this, make some deals between the house and the senate, and we are going to get something together. and that bill is going to come back. that is going to be the last shot. the last shot for both democrats and republicans to come together to ensure we could produce millions of new jobs in domestic manufacturing. i want to commend the america compete act, madam speaker, for including $52 billion to incentivize private sector investments and continue to american leadership in semiconductor manufacturing. microchip manufacturing to help address supply chain disruptions and ensure more microchips are produced here at home. i have heard from my local auto dealers, i have heard from local manufacturers. we need to make these microchips at home. and this bill helps us do that. within our district in central florida, we have the neocity technological campus, which is recognized as an emerging microchips, microelectronics, and advanced manufacturing hub. we have already had made synergies with institutions of higher education across florida and key partnerships with the u.s. department of defense and the u.s. department of commerce under both the trump administration and now under the biden administration. neocity is home to bridge a non-for-profit public-private partnership, specializing in domestic semiconductor research, development and manufacturing. i am nick, a world-renowned international research and development organization active in the semiconductor design and architecture space, also has a presence there. sus microtech, a leading supplier of equipment and process solutions for the semiconductor industry, they are working at neocity and skywater technology, the only u.s. owned and operated pure play trusted foundry that works on leading edge advanced packaging technology for microchips and microelectronics. they are all working out in collaboration at the center of neovation at neocity, one of the most state-of-the-art advanced manufacturing facilities in western hemisphere. as envisioned by this important legislation, the facility and experts at bridge, i am nick, sus microtech and skywater technology offer immediate capability to accelerate u.s. production of critical semiconductor chips, strengthen the domestic supply chain so chips are made right here in america and turbocharged our research capacity. equally as important, neocity academy, a public stem magnet high school is training the leaders of tomorrow's science and technology workforce. i am proud of the work being undertaken in our district to support domestic semiconductor manufacturing technology development as they work to address the supply chain. i look forward to working with the administration and the u.s. department of commerce on implementation of the american compete act and the chip for america fund. in this bill, we were able to get an amendment to clarify that chip's funding also includes nonprofits like places like neocity and we appreciate the house for supporting this, adding nonprofits to the definition of covered entities to expand the semiconductor and center program to include nonprofit entities, clarifying that nonprofit entities like 501c3 facilities like neocity are also eligible for funding under the semiconductor and center program. before helping with aerospace there, we are starting to work with commercial space like nasa and spacex and blue origin. the bill also includes my second amendment. we know that we are boosting forward madam speaker on artificial intelligence. we need to make sure as we are doing that and seeing more autonomous vehicles and other artificial intelligence uses that we are training our labor force ahead of time for the jobs of today and tomorrow. that is why i am proud that the ai jobs act passed as an amendment and directs the department of labor to create a report analyzing the future of artificial intelligence and its impacts on the american workforce. specifically, the report would collect data to analyze which industries are protected to have the most growth through artificial intelligence and the demographics which may experience expanded career opportunities through and those most vulnerable to job displacement. this is an inclusion of our standalone bill, hr6553, the ai jobs act. thirdly, we were able to include an amendment for the blockchain and crypto currency specialist within the office of science and technology policy. the director of the office of science and technology policy is required to establish a blockchain and cryptocurrencies advisory specialist position within the office to advise the president on matters related to blockchain and cryptocurrencies. ostp advises the president and others within the executive office of the president of the scientific, engineering and technological aspects of the economy, national security, homeland security, health, farm relations and the environment. it is critical to create such a position within ostp to ensure there is a policy expert capable of advising the president and others within the executive office on these issues of growing national importance. but wait, there is more madam speaker because we got our restoring resilient reefs act which passed through our natural resources committee to reauthorize the coral reef conservation act, the crca, which expired nearly 15 years ago. it maintains the noaa coral reef program which also while also introducing overdo improvements to coral management and restoration efforts and giving innovative new tools to partners who are closest to this crisis, states, territories, tribes, communities and universities. we know that the great florida reef is in danger and we are doing everything we can to restore it. it is critical to our recreation, to clean water, to protect habitat and to tourism. a few of the provisions included in the restoring resilient reefs act, a bipartisan bill that passed out unanimously out of the natural resources committee, include a five-year authorization with the explicit focus on restoration activities where natural disasters and human activities have degraded reef ecosystems. this program is currently funded at $33 million for 2021 but without further direction from congress. creates a block grant program where states and territories can receive federal matching funds. for the prior years, coral expenditures provided they have an action plan in place, which will incentivize increased state and local investment in coral reef management capacity. we are also helping inter-governmental partnerships for key, that are key for water infrastructure upgrades, pollution mitigation efforts and re-growing reefs. it allows for the formation of the public-private partnerships for coral management called coral, stewardship partnerships. public-private partnerships are critical for sharing research. it also authorizes the u.s. coral reef task force to ensure states, territories and other stakeholders, continue to have a voice in u.s. coral reef management. public feedback is essential. establishes a single stream line set of guidelines for action plans to implement the national strategy with maximum flexibility given to state and local authorities. these action plans will focus restoration efforts more effectively. they also allow for emergency grants and emergency funds for coral disasters. this is critical for hurricane-prone areas like florida, and will assist with hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, as well as oil spills and other major pollution events. we thank all house members who supported this for its inclusion in these, along with these technological amendments, these coral reef provisions in this essential piece of legislation that allows us to compete in the 21st century. it is in the name, madame speaker, and together we are going to get this done. in honor of black history month, i would like to recognize dr. fay bellamy. dr. fay bellamy is a retired educator. she worked full-time in the poke in hillsborough county school districts. as at least she worked part-time as a professor at poke state college. in addition to her experience teaching various subjects, she has countless hours organizing and implementing drop-out prevention programs, training teachers, and working to improve our local schools. dr. bellamy has a bachelor's degree in social science education, a master's degree in education administration, a specialist degree in administration and supervision, and a doctor in educational leadership and higher education. she has used the knowledge gained from her research and studies to help students obtain academic excellence. she has worked many years with civil rights organizations to improve the school system for black people. her focus has been on changing unfair disciplinary practices, seeking solutions to low academic performance and low test scores, as well as the lack of diversity in hiring practices. dr. bellamy is the founder and director of chain of lakes achievers community tutorial program. cola was designed to assist the schools in improving students grades and test scores. dr. bellamy has worked in partnership with government officials at all levels to improve black neighborhoods. she has been instrumental in bringing about changes that include installing sidewalks and speed bumps, creating recreational programs, increasing sewer connections, decreasing criminal activities, upgrading housing, replacing houses, construction at restoration parks, assisting businesses and more. she has contributed to the community by providing housing and employment as an entrepreneur. dr. bellamy has also served as a housing commissioner. she is presently affiliated with the hearst chapel ame, famue alumni, and double acp in the concerned citizens of pope county. dr. bellamy has received recognition from the national coalition of 100 black women, pope county chapter inc., the naacp, cola, chain of lakes achievers, and jewett high school alumni association inc. she also received the key to the city of winter haven, florida. for this and more, dr. fay bellamy, we honor you. in honor of black history month, i would like to recognize dr. eugenia agarn. dr. agarn's values have a direct impact on influencing her desire to assist communities in crisis. therefore it is imperative that she provides services to aid in alleviating debilitating conditions. dr. agarn establish and operates a private practice hugs. her treatment model is to treat the whole person. dr. agarn's aries of specialty are treating patients suffering from anxiety, depression, ptsd, and physical health issues co-occurring with depression. dr. agarn is a very passionate speaker and a facilitator of education health forms and workshops to promote healthy living from the inside out. dr. agarn continuously hosts health forms, free of charge for the community, and schools to prevent barriers to health care from providing topics focused on the prevention of hypertension, diabetes, stds, obesity, breast cancer, bullying, and more. dr. agarn works diligently to abate the stigma of mental health. dr. agarn educates the community on signs and symptoms of mental health, treatment, and support options. dr. agarn has always been on the front line to provide crisis counseling services during both regional crises and world crises. during the pulse nightclub shootings she provided free and confidential counseling to many of the victims and organized healing forms in oceola county for everyone impacted by this act of terrorism. furthermore, during the covid-19 pandemic, dr. agarn immediately offered counseling services to front line workers, creating solutions for self-care, prevention of burnout, and anxiety and depression reduction techniques. for the general public, dr. agarn immediately created a free community outreach form, hugs, healing hour, via zoom for individuals and organizations to restore the sense of community amongst the isolation and depression. she provided therapeutic coping skills to combat depression and anxiety and assisted children being homeschooled. dr. agarn continues to educate the community on covid-19, creating forums on support, exploring fiction versus fact, and problem solving, vaccination, and hesitancy. dr. agarn serves in leadership roles on many community agencies, boards, and organizations. she serves as health care and the health director of a nonprofit where she provides medical supplies to poor areas to prevent the loss of life. for this and more, dr. eugenia agarn, we honor you. in honor of black history month, i would like to recognize kimberly saunders. kimberly saunders is in her fourth year serving as president of the center florida chapter of the national black mba association inc. a not-profit organization whose mission is to lead in the creation of educational, wealth building, and growth opportunities for those historically underrepresented through their careers as students, entrepreneurs, and professionals. since 2015, she has served in various volunteer capacities, such as partnerships, chair, vice-president of operations, and a continuing role as a mentor for the leaders of tomorrow program, which serves high school students in the areas of leadership, college and career preparation, financial literacy, and life skills. she has been instrumental in developing corporate partnerships, securing grants, fundraising, and facilitating programs to provide the organization with resources to serve its members and community through the central florida region. her dedication and service to the organization and its mission were recognized in 2021 as she was one of two awardees for chapter present of the year by the national organization, which currently has 41 chapters nationwide. professionally, kimberly has spent the last 11 years in the financial services industry. she is a managing partner for vest wise, llc, a state of florida redistured investment advisory company, in her role as an investment advisor and certified financial planner professional. she serves her client's best interest by providing sound and knowledgeable advice. kimberly also serves as a board member for the goldsboro front porch council, a florida designated community. she is also a member of the local chapter of the national alumni association for florida agricultural and mechanical university, otherwise known as famue. where she earned her bachelor of science in management and masters of business administration. at the core of kimberly's heart are her faith and family. she hopes to continue to positively impact lives personally and professionally. for this and more, kimberly saunders, we honor you. in honor of black history month, i would like to recognize melody taylor. melody taylor is a board certified registered nurse with years of experience in the healthcare industry. she has earned a masters of science in nursing leadership and management. she is currently pursuing a doctoral degree in nursing. melody serves as a nurse leader at orlando health. miss taylor is recognized as a dedicated community and nurse advocate, having led many initiatives in power on the low-income families to succeed and advancing the field of nursing. from 2007 to 2014, she engaged with the city of orlando office of community affairs to improve social determinants of health in at-risk populations. during that time, she became a volunteer on the citizens review panel for the city of orlando. her leadership was the key driver in mobilizing low-income families to mainstream society along with the collaborations of nonprofit, faith-based business, and governmental entities. miss taylor is a founding member and president of black nurses, rock orlando. she is also a board member of the black nurses rock foundation, where she has served as the director of chapter development for 23 chapters across the united states. miss taylor was recognized as the black nurses rock foundation leader of the year in 2018. community advocacy has always been a priority for melody. she will continue to empower and inspire innovative leaders to advance in the field of nursing and promote preventative health to decrease health care disparities in vulnerable communities. melody is in the middle child of five children and the mother to a handsome son named john and a beautiful daughter named katia. she has six beautiful grandchildren, dre vianne, keonti, sincere, harmony, jela, and jalia. melody will continue her volunteer service to build a better community for her citizens, living in central florida and advance the field of nursing across the globe. for this and more, melody taylor, we honor you. in honor of black history month, i would like to recognize officer carol bradley. officer carol bradley has proudly served and protected the citizens of winter haven, florida, for 30 years. officer bradley served in the u.s. army from 1980 to 1983. in 1986, she decided to follow her dreams and began her journey in law enforcement. in 1986 to 1991, she worked as a correction officer at poked correctional institution. after working with pci for five years, she decided to take her dream a step further and began her career with the winter haven police department as the first african american female community officer, service officer for the city of winter haven. officer bradley immensely enjoyed serving as a goodwill ambassador for the city of winter haven and bridging the gap between the city police and the citizens in the community. in 1993, she transitioned from a civilian position to a sworn officer position. she was promoted to patrol officers too in october of 1997. she then was awarded the chief accommodation of outstanding service to her community in january of 2001. she enjoys serving her community through her church activities. she also received the optimus club award for her distinguished services. she received several letters of accommodation from the community in 2009. in addition, she received the bureau of commodation for the protection of regimental property in february of 2010. officer bradley received the circle of love award for the ridge career center for contributions to single mothers and the homeless. she was promoted a master officer in may of 2017, mentoring the youth in the oren circle community was a rewarding experience as well. making history once again in 1998, officer bradley became the first hud and homeless coalition officer for the city of winter haven. implementing that homeless program as an officer was also very rewarding for her. from 2006 to 2018, officer bradley worked in winter haven's public schools as a school resource officer. she also worked with two other officers in the dare program within the elementary schools. she entered her career as a law enforcement officer with winter haven on december 27, 2021, yielding a total amount of 35 years as a law enforcement officer. she is married to her spouse, terry bradley, and they have two daughters, one son and two granddaughters. for this and more, officer carol bradley, we honor you. in honor of black history month, i would like to recognize reginald hardy. reginald hardy is the information technology leader for florida's term pike enterprise and has more than 22 years of state government experience with a focus on strategic planning, budgeting, building, and leading support in development teams in a public sector setting. he earned the benji watts leader of the year for the authority in 2020. he currently serves as a member of the board of directors for the oceola county council on aging, the oceola historical society, and a member of the city of kissimmee's fire pension board. he also serves the community as a member and officer of bethel ame church, the naacp, the simi masonic lodge 68 and alpha phi alpha fraternity, incorporated. he served for ten years as a member of the board of directors for the kissimmee utility authority and was elected to serve as kua chairman in 2013 a role he served for four years. he was the first african american to serve on the kua board. the kissimmee utility authority board of directors established an electrical line worker scholarship in the name of reginald hardy and rededicated its employee events building as the reginald hardy employee pavilion, honoring his decade of service who was also recognized by the kissimmee city commission with a proclamation. he received the distinguished leadership and service award from oceola visionaries for positively impacting the community in the spirit of teachings and example of dr. martin luther king jr. he is also a recipient of the american public power association spence vanderlinden public official award. hardy is a native of kissimmee born to a midwife of kissimmee's lake street. he is a veteran of the army reserves, a university of florida alumnus and a graduate of florida state university's public manager program. for this and more mr. reginald hardy, we honor you. in honor of black history month, i would like to recognize tanisha nunn gary, a consummate business professional and accomplished attorney tanisha nunn gary is the president and ceo of the african american chamber of commerce of central florida, a leading advocate for business development and economic empowerment. as head of the established nonprofit, she is responsible for cultivating strong relationships with key community leaders and corporate entities to enhance opportunities for members and engage partners on initiatives. tanisha oversees all outreach efforts for the chamber, which encompasses six counties and she executes strategic planning to ensure the chamber's voice is included in economic, education and community conversations that impact the region. the aacc cf boasts a varied membership and revolves around four pillars, advocacy, access to capital, contracts and entrepreneur training and development. as a former business owner, tanisha is intimately familiar with what it takes to thrive as an entrepreneur and is uniquely qualified to lead the aacc cf into its next chapter of growth. prior to being named president of the aacc cf, she was the principal of a private law firm focused on all aspects of litigation from wrongful death cases and medical negligence. her solo practice and early work as a senior associate for gary, williams, perenti, watson and gary landed multi-million dollar settlements. in addition to her legal prowess, tanisha served as the executive director of the gary foundation, where she identified major donors, prospects to help provide scholarships to florida youth. tanisha is an active member of several civic and professional associations including the orange county mayor, jerry demings, dr. martin luther king, jr. initiative, truist advisory board or land economic partnership board, united art board and florida association of chamber professionals. in 2021, tanisha was named as one of the orlando business journal ceos of the year and a 50 centra florida power players. additionally, the orlando magic recognized tanisha as a hometown hero and a social justice game changer. she is also a member of jack and jill of america, inc., orlando chapter of the lynx inc., a life member of alpha kappa alpha sorority inc., as well. a graduate of spellman college and the quinipe yak university school of law, she enjoys traveling, reading, baking and spending time with her son. for this and more, tanisha, nun gary, we honor you. in honor of black history month, i would like to recognize tony jenkins. tony jenkins is the florida blue market president for the central florida region, where he provides strategic oversight and leads a team in developing business plans to increase and maintain and retain membership and hands brand visibility in coordinate employee engagement. tony was instrumental in establishing florida blue's diversity program in 2001. prior to joining florida blue, jenkins served as the director of diversity for csx corporation, the largest rail network in the eastern united states. he also spent 18 years with the walt disney world company in various leadership roles, specializing in diversity, equity and inclusion. under tony's leadership in central florida, florida blue has been recognized as a best place to work, an outstanding diverse organization and a corporate philanthropy honoree. tony is an advocate for several causes through the orlando community. he is the past year for united arts of central florida and the florida commission on human relations. he currently serves on the board of florida citrus sports and is a board of trustees at the stetson university. tony is a chair elect for the orlando economic partnership board, where he also serves as chair for their dei task force, engaging orlando's business leaders across varied industries. tony has been recognized by the orlando business journal as one of central florida's top 10 businessmen to watch and ceo of the year. most recently, he received the publications diversity and business lifetime achievement award. he is also an i-4 business magazine business leader of the year award recipient. he holds a bachelor's degree of arts and hospitality management from morris brown college in atlanta, georgia. for this and more, tony jenkins, we honor you. in honor of black history month, i would like to recognize marisa jefferson-lias. hailing from the great city of quincy, florida, marisa jefferson-lias is the daughter of wilbur senior and jeannie jefferson. her father's successful fruit contracting business brought the family to pope county, florida, where marisa embarked on an amazing journey of academic excellence. after graduating from effingham county, high school in savannah, georgia, marisa returned to florida and enrolled in pope community college, now pope state college. she received an associate degree in liberal arts. she then matriculated to the almighty bethune cookman college, now bethune cookman university, receiving a bachelor's degree in education. and the phrase cannot stop, will not stop, was a person, then marisa who would be the title holder of that mantra. she continued her studies at the university of south florida, receiving a master of education in organizational leadership. marisa took her educational talents to the pope county school board, where she spent 16 years as a certified educator, holding various positions such as elementary teacher, reading coach, medical academy director, and health science clinical nurse and instructor. marisa's gift of being an educator and a nurturer allowed her to receive her bachelor's degree in nursing from pope state college. she went to florida southern college and obtained her master's degree in nursing, specializing as a family nurse practitioner. she is currently matriculating her doctorate in the same college with a projected completion date of 2023. this is jefferson leias, truly lives the words, divinely speaking life, one breath at a time. not only has marisa, but has received everything that she has set her mind to possess, but she is also the epitome of a leader, advocate, nurturer, and mentor. her compassion for people and helping others stems from a generational line of educators and nurses, including a great grandmother who was a nurse midwife. the same dedication, marisa carries as a nurse and community leader allowed her to recognize the need for more nurses and nursing assistants. she started a company that offers training and prep courses for nurses during the pandemic, since that void needs to be filled in her community. she currently is the owner of divine essential medical academy llc, as well as other business ventures. she is a blessed wife and mother and godmother. she is an inspiration to her family, friends, and community. for that and more, miss marisa, jefferson leias, we honor you. in honor of black history month, i would like to recognize valparisa j. baker. valparisa j. baker is a native floridian, most recently served as the chief diversity officer at poke state college. prior to her recent retirement, miss baker was employed with the college since 1988, where she held multiple positions of advancement. she has a master's degree in higher education from the national lewis university, a bachelor's degree from the university of central florida, and an associate degree from poke state college. miss baker has a strong commitment to her church, the new anti-oc missionary baptist church, where she serves as an active first lady. she serves as the chairperson for the education scholarship ministry, advisor for the women intermediate ministry, pastors aid ministry, and media ministry. she is the newly appointed vice president for the ministers' wives, ministers' widows of the first south florida missionary baptist district association. miss baker has received numerous citations and awards from area organizations. most recently she was received the 2021 drum major for justice award, presented by the hane city naacp, was the 2021 juneteenth honorary for the juneteenth observance lakeland committee, as well as the 2018 distinguished citizen for the greater tampa bay area council boy scouts of america. she is a graduate of the national council of black american affairs and administrators leadership program, florida chancellor's leadership program, winter haven chamber of commerce leadership, winter haven class xx, and poke vision leadership poke class v. she is very active in civic groups and serves in numerous boards, including the florence villa community development center, poke vision lift mentor leadership council, and the city of winter haven juneteenth steering committee. she is a strong passion for equity, diversity, and inclusion. through her community involvement, she continues her commitment to equity, diversity, and inclusion for all. miss baker enjoys spending time with her family and traveling. she and her husband of 34 years, reverend derek l. baker, have two children, stephen and marquita, and two grandsons, gavin and malachi. for this and more miss valparisa, jay baker, we honor you. madam speaker, i thank you for your time, and yield back.