thank you. good morning. thank you for joining us. my name is francie newsom-fyfer, and i am the vice president for federal relations at rutgers. i am based in washington, dc. i am also a member of the teaching team here at eglton, and i have the great pleasure of kicking off the eglton institute of politics, albert lueit, endowed lecture today. the albert w. lueit, endowed lecture, was established by mrs. benjamin leon in memory of her brother who worked on capitol hill in the 1940s for both senator warren barber and later senator albert hawks, both of new jersey. the annual lecture is presented by a current or former member of congress, congressional staffer or an expert on congress. i would like to take a moment to thank the lueit family and the supporters of the institute's public program series for making conversations like today possible. i would also like to take a moment on behalf of eglton to thank the institute's co-sponsors of today's program for their support. the rutgers center for social justice education and lgbt communities. the rutgers center for latino arts and culture. the rutgers center, the rutgers university alumni association, finally. now it is my distinct pleasure to welcome u.s. congressman darren soto. elected in 2016, congressman soto represents central florida's ninth congressional district, which includes all of oceola and parts of orange and polk counties, including eastern orlando, kissamy, and st. cloud. representative soto is a ringwood, new jersey native who credits his parents for his strong work ethic. he is a graduate of rutgers university here in new brunswick and the end of the george washington university school of law. in a short time in congress, representative soto has helped to pass major bills to increase hurricane preparedness, hold foreign offshore drillers accountable, protect marine life, and to honor veterans. he currently serves on the house committee on energy and commerce and the house committee on natural resources. the first floridian of puerto rican descent to serving congress. soto is a proud member of the congressional hispanic caucus. he is also a member of the new democrat coalition, the congressional progressive caucus, and the lgbt equality caucus. reflecting on his path to congress in 2017 interview with rutgers today, congressman soto said, it is a fight to get a seat at the table where there is a lot of money and a lot of famous names. we are grateful for the time he is taking today to share his expertise and insights about that fight with his alma mater. we look forward to hearing about the congressman's path to politics and his advice for those who aspire to follow his example. leading our conversation this afternoon is my colleague, dr. elizabeth maddo. dr. maddo directs eagleton center for youth political participation, which leads research, education, and public service efforts designed to encourage and support the political learning of high school and college students and civic action among young adults. throughout today's program, we encourage our audience members to submit questions via the q&a box. dr. maddo will turn to audience questions for representative soto during the latter half of the program. thank you again very much for joining us today, congressman. i will hand things over now to our excellent moderator, dr. maddo. thanks so much. thank you so much, francine. thank you, congressman soto, for joining us this morning. i am really happy to be leading the conversation and look forward to discussing with you your pathway to office, your approach to public service. certainly, a core component of the mission of the eagleton institute of politics is to really link the study of politics with the practice of politics. so this conversation today promises to do just that for our students, but really for the broader rutgers community. so we would love to just begin by obviously you are proud rutgers alum and we are thrilled to have you. maybe thinking back on your time here at rutgers, if there were any pivotal moments that sparked your interest in public service or any experiences while you were at rutgers that fostered the skills or the mindset to engage in a life of public service. well, there were really flashes of political interest that i had, but i could honestly say whether it was through rutgers or through gw. i did not realize i was ever going to be running for the state legislature or congress, but there were moments. so when i was in high school, i participated in my then congresswoman, marj rocamas, international congress. although i was kind of a wallflower there, to be honest, a lot of kids really knew their stuff and i was just getting into it. then went on to boy state new jersey. that one was more of a mark. i made it to president of the senate and passed one of the only bills, a bill that at that time make the lottery budget public for to make sure it was going to education. so that was a real exciting moment. when i got to rutgers, you know, i was very interested in history and i was an economics major. and so from my historic studies, particularly of american history, that was that lend to hand, but also probably the work i did as a social chair and as a rush here of a local fraternity, alpha cairo at the time, that got me in the mix with folks having to introduce myself, having to make persuasive arguments for people to join. i would have never known that was a pathway, but it was. i went on to gw law and was going to school or nation's capital. rutgers was a great preparation for that law school education. and even then, i always voted. i always paid attention to what was going on in politics, but i was kind of turned off by, you know, the snobby nature seemed like i have even the interns over there. so even while i was at gw, i am concentrating on my studies and i never went to the white house ones and never went to the capital ones. and it was not until i got down to florida that some of these fundamentals that i learned really started to take shape. i had to create a new law firm and with a relative of mine and we are trying to get out there so i joined the young democrats to meet people. and it was a somber group because i joined just after john kerry had lost in 2004. and just to show how politically sensitive i was in the situation, i was wondering why everybody was depressed because i had already gotten over it from my vote in early november. but that is when the very next meeting i became the vice chair, the vice president of the young democrats of communications. i used some of the skills that i learned actually to recruit and develop social events and as a rush chair to create a event called the speakeasy, which is a social event that we had at that time, 2004 was pretty groundbreaking. we had it at an lgbt local bar but it expressed our values as young democrats. we had a political speaker come in who could only speak for five minutes and then it was a happy hour. and we built up the membership from about 25 to 150 members in a matter of a few months. i did not know there would be synergy though. i never occurred to me that one of us would decide to run for office. another would decide to be their campaign manager. we all would start knocking on doors together and i started as a volunteer. and managing reasons through that young democrats group. and it showed me that a group of 20 somethings were willing to utilize their weekends to knock on doors for many months. it could overcome money, it could overcome better known candidates. and we got our first member elected, scott randolph. a few months later there was a special election. and we got the band back together and despite being outspent, having the least name recognition out of six in the primary and being outspent three to one in the general, we won both those and i found myself within a little more than a little less than two years from taking the florida bar being in the florida legislature. so you can see some of the fundamentals i learned through social life, through american history and through the experiences in new jersey that eventually one day led to me getting on the path to becoming a state legislator and ultimately a member of congress. it seems it highlights really the role of relationships. where it was your time in your fraternity at rutgers or with the young democrats, that role would you say that relationships play a central role or play a role in being successful in public life and politics? as a speaker pelosi would say relationships with currency of the realm. you have to have those relationships. i have always been very social. i have always been a people person. i enjoyed knocking on thousands of doors, talking to thousands of my constituents, those conversations over many years have informed me of the needs of the area. the literally walking eats community gives you a good sense of it as you talk to people. so definitely one path through politics is by being a people person, engaging in retail politics as one would say, shaking more hands than the next person, meeting more people than the next person. and when we are talking about state legislative races and city council races, it is still at an achievable level where you can knock on 5,000,000 doors over many months and with other young people where you could overcome the fact that you may be outspent because you are making those personal connections. but it takes a lot of work. and i think that is where people are like, how do you knock on 10,000 doors? 15,000 doors. well, you start early and you go from many months to do it with a little help from your friends and it builds over time. those personal connections still to this day, people when they come to my office, they are like, you knocked on my door five years ago. i remember talking to you about this, or you listen to me and you actually worked on that legislation afterwards. so those relationships, even on a massive scale, are part of what at least my brand of politics is about. you do have others who are legacies who come in with great name recognition. their parents were in the congress. others who write a check for a million bucks and are already in the game, you know, there is other ways to do this. but for most of you on this call, who are not rich or famous, this is probably the more standard way to get involved in what i do. thank you. let us say a bit. you have indicated that your time as a lawyer advocating for clients really encouraged you to run for office at the state level. so if you could explore that decision a bit more with us. and i am wondering in particular, are there are there ways in which holding public office can affect systemic change that is widely felt that you were felt was not being met via solely advocacy or solely representing your clients. so that importance of kind of taking that next step to really affect change. sure. so first of all, having a strong knowledge of american history that it helped develop through the new jersey school system and through rutgers, so else a strong knowledge of the law was foundational. because in addition to meeting a lot of people, you have to know stuff and you have to have ideas, a platform that you present. it is not about you. it is about how you are going to improve the lives of your constituents. so really becoming a whiz at florida law, i studied and studied and studied for that florida bar and did really well on it and had a good general knowledge of florida law. so when you are running as a young person, i was 28 and turned 29 during that first election that we won. it is a double edged sword. on the one hand, people think, oh, you are naive. you do not know what you are talking about. but if you could show that you know more about florida law than someone twice your age, suddenly now is the other side, which is you are young, you have the energy and you have the knowledge to get what needs to be done done. and it can appeal to people of all ages. and people are excited that someone of their age group is running. but a lot of older people want someone with energy. they want someone who is going to be able to do the tireless work. it takes to be a legislator, everything from the knowledge to the town halls, to the travel, to all the debates, to all the different things you have to do. so certainly having that strong florida law background and american historical background prove pivotal, even to this day in debates where i could reference different things like the snap of the finger. and you improve it over time. i could not say that the undergrad may or even the law school may be able to do those things as quickly. you have many of us, if you continue to learn from your mistakes and learn from your lessons, you evolve and you learn throughout your whole life. so that is a really important lesson to learn that you are undergrad and grad degrees, even at rutgers, are only a part of the overall learning as you progress in your careers. and yes, we saw early on through law school and through advocating for clients, there were limits to what you could do because you cannot change the law when you are litigating. the law is what it is. you litigate it and argue it is the best your ability. so that was obviously motivation. i was a lawyer who wanted to write laws. i did not run for school board. i did not run for city council. i did not run for any of that. and actually there was a lesson in boy state. i actually learned way longer ago that really came back up when this happened. when i was in boy state, i lost my first four elections for like fire chief, city council and county commission, but i won the senate position in a landslide because my personality was much more even back then as they junior high school, much more lawyerly and intellectual than then i guess community organizer oriented it. and i work with a lot of community organizers. and that is another way to do it. there is some great ones there. but it was through history and having more of a legal mind even back then, although i did not know that yet, that i was a fit for senate, but lost every election before then. so i knew from going into it, i was a lawyer who wanted to write laws and i had worked on some civil rights cases. there was also a lack of representation among the huge puerto rican community in central florida. we had a lot of folks who were of other ethnicities representing the populations. and then there were one or two republican puerto ricans who were the vast majority of us are democrats in central florida, but the republicans have been really sharp to put real money behind some of the puerto rican republicans there. so a lot of puerto ricans would come down or up from the island and be like, i am a democrat but i am voting for this guy apparently because he is our guy. and so when i ran, i ran against the money, but i did the hard work. and there was not a lot of folks before that willing to do that on the democratic side. we had the votes there, but someone had to lead the fight to go out to get it and a martial everything together. now, after me, it is become a very progressive community. i have folks who are now in state rep positions or school board positions or county commission seats. we have really arrived politically. we are still arriving economically down there. and frankly, a lot of folks are from new jersey or new york who moved down to central florida. they are the second biggest rutgers alum populations in florida. so that should not surprise a lot of you after new jersey that there is a lot of us in central florida. so knowing that we needed folks who represented the majority of the values of a central florida and to fight for things that really mattered, i passed a law to help make dreamers eligible to be in the florida bar and to have in state tuition. i do not know if a non-hispanic would have pushed that as hard or not someone who does not understand the immigrant experience. i pushed to give families coming from puerto rico two years before their standardized test would count. we had kids coming in not having enough time to learn the language when my dad or in men at sea moved to patterson, new jersey. it took him three years to really learn the language. and we were testing kids after one year and they were failing and getting held back. so those were just two key examples of having an ex my life experience had me prioritize two of those issues. and a third was after hurricane maria when we had so many folks coming to new jersey as a member of congress, it was tireless. and the beauty is we have a district where there is many of us who have strong connections to sort of your knee reekens up by you and los puerros which are folks from the island. and we are sort of a mixed up both and we stand solidarity with brothers and sisters on the island. but make no mistake about i represent central florida and that is the main priority but they give me the goodwill to work and all these other things including teaming up with new jersey delegation as different issues come up as well. and you have touched on one of the hats that i wear at the center for youth political participation is leading our young elected leaders project where we do research on young people running for office and serving in office. but that notion, this idea of the importance that activism has played as an impetus to having you run for office. do you see that in other people of your generation? i think you indicated you served in office, you were 28, 29 when you ran for the state legislature. is that a unique feature would you say of millennials that has maybe propelled them to run for office? so we saw some with a, i guess, a tweener like me where i am gen x but near millennial, starting around that 2007, 2008 time, getting back to the basics and president barack obama in that 2008 campaign was a community organizing and canvassing on a massive scale. i mean, even in my neighborhood, i got a knock on the door from someone from barack obama's campaign. and i think that really set the tone. we see millennials really taking it to another level and it is exciting because you, that is what people used to do. the interesting thing is the contrast because you have also social media. so social media is good to get some information out there to get out to a lot of people. but it also is impersonal. so even as social media becomes a great tool to get your message out there, young people and older people still want that personal connection. and in fact, because of covid, you see the fact that for instance, the democrats could not did not knock on doors to the very end. that hurt us in many seats because of the safety issue. but i for instance, we are on a campaign where we knock on doors for months and we had to do phone banking for months and just go out in the last five weeks once and then candidate biden was starting to canvas. so and you see that also on the republican side too that you have increasingly young people, not only turned to new ways like social media, but understanding that social media is also cheap and personal and that you still need that personal connection. and i even argue that a lot of my millennial constituents who are now homeowners, if i just reached out to them through social media, they would be like, yeah, anybody could do that. anybody could tweet something out. anybody can do a facebook post or facebook ad. they will not even more so want that genuine contact because of what it means to actually have an authentic two-way conversation until listen. can you help us understand then your time in the state legislature and you know, you were encouraged to run based on that real desire to make effect that institutional change, that long-term change. maybe talk a little bit about what encouraged you then to run for congress. and you know, we know that you have been a very active member of congress in your short time and service in your first term. you helped to pass the most legislation of any other freshmen in congress. so we would be interested, first of all, maybe if you could explore for us what encouraged you to run for congress and your service in congress, but then certainly talking about, i would love to then segue into discussing, you know, we are in this moment of such crisis on so many fronts, whether it is the global pandemic, the economic crises, nationwide reckoning regarding the continued effects of institutional racism, you know, the role of congress right now, what role congress should be playing in the lives of their constituents. so tell us about your time in congress. sure. so as i progressed from the state house to the state senate to the congress, first politics is a lot to do at timing. it is much easier to win an open seat than run against incumbent and there are these moments that come up and you either have to seize that moment or not and you have to be smart about it. so when i was in the state house, there was a new congressional seat drawn, but there was a gentleman who used to represent it, it was worth millions of dollars and he jumped in that right away. and i was like, i am going to run for state senate right now for the same motivations to help people to write fair and just laws and to do a policy and learn from the mistakes of history to improve the future in the quality of my constituents. but as you go further up, you have a larger ability to do it. it is true that local governments and state governments are closest to the people. but i think a lot of the focus right now for better for worse has been on the big national efforts going on. so as i have the opportunity to run for state senate, that was the better opportunity. iran was honored to win and to represent our community for four years in the state senate. an open seat opens up. frankly, this is the difference between the minor leagues and the major leagues. you know, i just sometimes remind everybody in florida we have a state legislature because people would forget about that. but there is a lot of focus on congress and you could do a lot of big things. and of course, as an american history buff, the greatest debates, at least from historical context and the greatest impact you could have in terms of numbers is through the congress. we are not dealing in millions and billions, we are dealing in billions and trillions and the biggest policies affecting the nation. and so the opportunity arose. it was a dogfight in the primary. and since the seat is just democratic leaning, i always have a legit and tough general election as well. but i tend to be most comfortable in a general election, talking to everyone. but also i am a proud democrat and have a lot of progressive values. so i work on both those things. but at the end of the day, it was to get that ability to be in some of the greatest debates of our time to be able to do what is right for the nation. and of course, i arrived at such a crucial time in history with the election of president trump that became a very divisive time for a lot of folks in central florida, where a very diverse community, we have a large hispanic population, we have a large african american population, we have a large muslim population. all those communities were absolutely demoralized and divided during that time period. and then we have sort of your folks liberal angerals coming down from the north and more southern traditional anglos that are more conservative in the south. one of my districts voted 13 plus for trump, two voted for hillary clinton. so i get in and i just from the context of history knew it was not going to be a normal time. and what really woke me up to it was when my hero, john lewis, was attacked, an american hero. and that was really like, okay, this is not going to be george w. bush or george herbert walker bush or ronald reagan. this is going to be a very different type of republican president and we need to be ready. and we fought two years to protect the affordable care act that ensures we have the biggest federal exchange in florida, in the nation in florida, with nearly 2 million people including tens of thousands of folks getting health insurance in my district. so that was a big issue. we saw the muslim band and trying to end daca and the attacks on the hispanic community. that was huge. we saw in addition, a voting rights that are protected african americans and then the supreme court takes away preclearance on top of that for our state. and so it was about surviving and then 2018 taking back the house to be able to provide some balance, some accountability back into the congress. and we by the skin of our teeth saved the aca prevented the daca from finally being eliminated, fought to try to preserve voting rights and lgbt rights and all these other things that were in jeopardy at the time. and then in 2018, we started to get to go on a little office and work on an appropriations package that more represented our values. and then of course, in march of last year, covid hit. and really that was, we are talking about the worst pandemic in 100 years since 1918. over half a million people have died to date. this is a once in a generation crisis and really the most invasive crisis to each american life since world war ii. and it took me while to realize that 9-11 of course was terrible for the tri-state area, for virginia. the whole nation was in mourning, but not everybody knew someone who passed away. when we went into the iraq war, less than 1% of population goes to iraq or afghanistan. even with the great recession, only 10% of folks to 12% of folks ever lost their jobs. so you still have 80-something percent of americans that are not affected. but now, every american is affected. we are on the zoom call because people could die if we congregate with using bad practices. so we had to step up and we passed the cares act, a huge landmark bill to help prevent a recession. and you have to look at this. we are dealing with two crises. we are dealing with a pandemic and an economic recession. it is not just the great recession like we saw in 2007 to 2010 and beyond insurface states like in florida. so this was a moment in time where it takes incredible leadership and unending stamina and courage to be able to, i was still going out, two events is still going out, getting on airplanes the whole time and meeting with constituents as i could. even while there was no vaccine yet, but they needed to see that their leaders had the courage to risk our own lives. and i was happy to do that because i know that is the job. and i have one of the most populated districts in the nation because very high growth, fifth most popular, 940,000 people are in the district i represent when most are at 760. so there is a lot of folks counting on us. and now we go into a unified democratic government under joe biden, where in the first 100 days we are on the precipice of passing the american rescue act, the largest bill passed by congress in generations. this is our new deal of this generation. and yes, there is a decent amount of funding for the response to covid, but there is even more to bring us through the recovery in every sector and every way of life. we are going to hire 100,000 young people to help us vaccinate america. we are going to have enough funding to get enough vaccines. we are going to make sure we can have these vaccination sites across the united states with a national guard helping out. we are going to be helping with higher ed institutions like rutgers, where i heard that the amount you all are receiving is well over $100 million to help with both the school being safe and student relief. so i could go on and on about the impact of this, but i will end by saying there is other landmark bills we are passing over this first 100 days, the pro act to boost labor rights. we passed hr run the four people election, a lot of protect early voting, voting rights to fight against, gerrymandering and redistricting to require presence to disclose their tax returns and to stop dark money from not being disclosed. and of course, we have also this week two gun safety bills to close the charleston loophole and to provide universal background checks. and next week, we are going to the dream promise act to protect dreamers and tps recipients with a pathway to citizenship as well as the farm work and modernization act to protect a pathway to citizenship. and last week, we passed the equality act, which would provide lgbt rights through all our civil rights statute. so some big issues coming through that in the first 100 days, that it is a narrow senate, but we feel very good about our chances to get a lot of these things through. there may be some compromises made, but you are going to see a big difference in this first two years and the rights of so many people, so many folks left behind for so long. thank you, congressman. and i just want to remind that we are going to segue in a few minutes to questions from our audience. so if you have a question and you have not submitted it yet, we want to encourage everyone to submit your question. and maybe i will ask one more and then we will start to address the questions that have come in. so you suggested such a vibrant, active agenda and have indicated that stamina and courage is so important to be successful in congress. maybe you could share with us, especially thinking of our students, what do you enjoy? what have you been, what do you enjoy about serving in office, whether it is at the state level or the national level? and maybe what are the parts that are less enjoyable? but tell us about your experience of serving in office. so i enjoy the smiling faces of my constituents when we get them their stimulus checked or we qualify them for medicaid or medicare, where we pass a big bill to help out dreamers or just yesterday, president biden approved temporary protective status for venezuela. and that was my bill in the congress and the president of the united states basically just adopted the policy that my bill had been fighting for four years because we had to have 200,000 plus venezuelan refugees in the united states whose status was uncertain. so being able to help those folks are great, being on american history buff legacy. when you are running for office and you are in office, you are writing a story, you are on that train and you need to, it takes a while to be fully cognizant of it. but when you are campaigning and you make promises, people expect you to keep them. they are not just empty things you say to get elected. and from there, you have to deliver and those are the legacies that you will be tested by as well as your ethics and how you carry yourself. do you step up? a lot of members did not step up, but more so than not did during the crisis. and if you have health reasons, that was a legitimate reason. but otherwise, it takes heroism, it is damn known. like i mentioned, the other thing that i appreciate is the debate. you know, over 10 years of being a litigator and 10 years of being a legislator and having that strong knowledge of the law and having that strong knowledge of american history, i go into debates looking to take people on, but in the facts, not in the personalities. i never insult members, i never call them names. if i am going to shock everybody, it is going to be with the facts. i may say that this is all about a real litigation of the election. we all know biden won. you may see people like, i do not want to hear about that. but i am not talking about personalities. i am talking about reality. or when i say that all this is about discriminating against a particular community or about for instance, climate change being real and being human cause and being an existential threat. and that we can either lead on this or we can leave an earth to our children that will be worse than any generation before it. and some people do not want to hear that. but i enjoy the debate. i enjoy seeing my constituents' lives improved. i enjoy establishing and passing landmark bills and legislation that are part of history. all those things are the motivations. what is not as pleasant? well fun raising is not at all pleasant, but it is required. because i feel like that is the difference between a city council member or state legislator versus member congress raising tens of thousands of dollars versus raising millions of dollars. but the beauty of it is there is different ways to do it. we have seen particularly among our younger millennial members, they have been able to take bold positions and grand pronouncements on social media, get thousands of millions of followers and be able to get thousands of small dollar contributions. so it is not just calling wealthy folks or packs. it is about small dollar donations. it is about getting support from folks actually in your community. and that is what hr1 was all about is making small dollar contributions count more. one of many things in the fourth people act. so that is a tougher part of the congress. nailers can be vicious, tv ads can be vicious and unfair. people can attack your family. you can have your worst days advertised for months at a time, mistakes made that you wish you could go back. but look, as i said, it is this moving train. so when you make a mistake, that is it. you own it. so you better live up to it and fix it and not try to run away from it. you got to take responsibility. truman's that are right when the buck stops here. and so that could be hard to take full responsibility for your mistakes and your successes. it could be hard to see your spouse or your family attacked for literally thousands of people to see. or for your staff to get attacked because they made a mistake. those things can be hard. but one thing i was blessed with is being a optimist, being someone who has a lot of energy but still calm at the same time. so i just kind of wake up the next day and it is today is the day. it is a new day. you got to just shake it off and move on because if you are able to get an office for enough time, you are going to already do other things that will eclipse whatever mistakes you made and nobody's perfect. but people do expect you to apologize and own up to things when it happens. and try not to make those mistakes to begin with. that also helps learn over time. and i believe that is been one of the real things over anything else. i hope people learn today is many of you will evolve throughout your careers. you will be sharper in your 30s or 40s than you are right now. some of you will not because you did not learn from your mistakes. but i hope you all will. there is no way even as a student or as a rutgers or a law student, i would be at the caliber i am now because it took many mistakes and many different lessons and building up my work ethic and building up my ability to remember things and recall all these things as you go up and you focus. those are all keys that have helped me and i hope help you too. so yeah, those are great lessons, not just for our students, but for all of us. so we have a number of questions that have come in. so i want to start to address some of them. one question asks, how do you bridge the social, economic, cultural and political differences among your constituents to create a common agenda for action? and maybe even along those lines, if you can discuss a particular piece of legislation that you are working on that may offer that opportunity to bridge those differences. sure. one of the keys is everybody cares about us bringing home projects and improving the lives of our constituents. so when we are talking about funding, everybody's part of the green party. when i am bringing back a local college, like we brought back a new valencia poincyanica college or bringing sun rail, a community rail to my district, or expanding i-4, which a lot of people are stuck in traffic on in jersey. i know you all know about traffic or whether it is bringing a new high tech center to the district. these were all, or helping our local citrus growers and ranchers with relief. hurricane relief was a big part. all those issues were all, for the most part, bipartisan. only the most hyperpartisan folks who just, it did not matter what i did there, they are not going to be with you. but a good two thirds to three quarters of my constituents and sometimes more are supportive of those things. so always remember that the budget, at least in the individual projects you are bringing down, tends to be bipartisan. and when i was fighting for citrus relief or fighting for housing relief after hurricanes or even during the covid relief, a lot of those letters were bipartisan. so that is important. some policies are sorry, the next thing that is very bipartisan, constituent matters. we do not ask people what party they are. we do not look up what party they are when they call for medicaid or they call up for stimulus, check help or they call up with help for their social security or for immigration issues. we have no idea nor would we ever care. it does not matter. we represent everybody in the district and we represent them equally with regard to constituent services. with regard to policy, look, you got to press that green button for yes or that red button for no. you are never going to win by 100%. you are never going to get 100% of the people to agree with you. what you do generally run on a platform and you vote those who are doing it right, vote consistent with that platform and you are representing the majority of voices in your district for that particular issue. and this is democracy. for better or worse, it is a majority rule. it needs district, majority voters that is. so do not forget to vote. that is a key part of it. so, and the last thing i would say is you have to compartmentalize different issues and be mature about it. i may have to fight vigorously in an issue related to climate change in the energy and commerce committee, which is one of the three most powerful committees in commerce. we have almost all of health care, almost all attack, environment, consumer protection, energy. it is this giant committee where 40% percent of all bills go through this committee, which is why i fought to get on it. oh, and by the way, the chair is your representative frank polone. so it is good to live in new brunswick. you have a very powerful member who i voted for twice and treats me as a nephew. he is great. so we made debate on issues related to climate change, but yesterday i went up to one of our florida members, long serving member, very bipartisan, gus villarakis. he represents part of the tampa bay area. and we wanted to make sure the federal qualified health clinics, concerning federal vaccines in because they are getting some from the state. so there is a lot more restrictions to that. we have a lot more control over the federal programs and the state programs. so i asked him, would he be willing to write a letter with me to buy it and asking for us to get out a lot of men's of vaccines for federally qualified health clinics? and he did not hesitate within a minute to say, you know, my father, he is a legacy by the way. my father helped pass the federal qualified health clinics. and this should be a bipartisan issue. it was not always, but we need to work on this. i have a lot of these in my district that helped my constituents to, yes, let us do this letter. and with he and i leading it, being on the committee, we are probably going to get most of the delegation on board. and so we may not agree on some other issues, but we just, we dust it off. dust ourselves off and pick up from the next debate. the law really helped me practicing law really helped me with that because when you are practicing law, you could have diametrically opposite interests as the other lawyer, but you have to go through discovery and you have to share information. you have to have respect for one another. so being able to have respect, compartmentalizing issue by issue, those are some of the things that help out in congress. and of course, as i mentioned, the budgets by partisan, constituent services of our partisan. and you try to have a policy agenda where you make some compromises, but you are always, you are never going to get 100% of people in your district to agree. okay. thank you, congressman. i want to ask a question that was posed by amanda. amanda writes, as a fellow puerto rican, i am concerned. i am concerned about the current state of the island, especially since they do not have direct representation in our government. what is doing to help these american citizens? well, anybody who ghouls my name will find out i am the prime sponsor of the puerto rico statehood bill. this all flows from how they vote on the island. my first opinion is that the current status is a failed status for the island. the island is a territory with a population bigger than about 20 something states. and we saw that, right? the failed status with the hurricane maria with promess it and the budget cuts we saw with earthquakes were they still have not got relief for that. and with covid-19 that the current status is just not working. we were not meant to have all other territories are 150,000 people or less. this is 3.2 million people, which is too big. and having one non voting member congress does not work for them. and so we had three elections, but this last one was a lot different. and that it was a simple yes or no statehood question on a general election ballot. and a majority of the people voted yes. if they would have voted no, i would not have taken any action because it is up to the people on the island to decide. and their florida and new york and brothers and sisters are here to support, should be supporting them and what they want to do. but they voted yes. and so i filed the bill as the prime sponsor jennifer gonzalez-colo and the resident commissioner is the co-introducer. the reason why i am the prime sponsors because the democrats are in charge, she is a republican. so if the republicans were in charge, she would have been the prime sponsor and i would have co-led with. it was the governor and the resident commissioner who wrote the bill because it should be reflective of the island's elected representatives voices. i have never had a problem with the island being independent. the problem becomes if there is more support for independence on the mainland than there is on the island. and it is pretty passionate support, particularly it is about 50-50 in new york and a little more statehood in pennsylvania and new jersey have not seen us strong up polling so i could not tell you. but i think we who live in states should not be telling folks on the island may need to be independent. it polls in single digits down there. and the reason is they prize their american citizenship. i mean we are passing the drian promise act and the farm worker modernization act to get more people in american citizenship. the vast majority of puerto ricans are believed in self-subian american citizens and prize that. they also receive billions in federal funding that boosts their quality of life compared to other caribbean nations. all of them are doing their best but they do not get $42 billion after a hurricane. when hurricane dorian hit the bahamas, they got a few hundred million dollars. puerto rico got $42 billion. they get all sorts of help because they are part of the united states. with this election we are going to be pushing pretty strong for statehood support. we have support from lboc in new jersey as a member from newark that many of you may know, my armado cabado and from richie torres from our first afro latino puerto rican in the congress is also a member of the lgbt community. but there is some debate over this. my problem is i think the times come. we have debated for 120 years. we do not need more debates. we need action. and if the folks down there wanted independence that support them but the vast majority of folks, they want statehood. so we are going to fight for that. that is one of those historic battles. ironically i am one of those puerto ricans who does not like to argue. i just like to solve problems. i like to end arguments. not continue to debate and debate over and over and over again. and this needs a resolution because there is 3.2 million people in the island living in a failed state as second class citizens in the united states of america. they have asked for statehood and we are going to support them. thank you congressman. i want to build on that question of representation and you alluded to it earlier. one of the questions from antonio, a surcer asks, we need more hispanics elected but i think we also need latinos, hispanics in government positions, probably appointed positions. so maybe if you could reflect on how we make that happen. either encouraging successful candidates. talk to us about encouraging representation in congress or state legislatures also. first, i am really proud of the fact that the youngest woman ever to be elected to congress is alexandria ocasio-cortez, a fellow puerto rican. she is the vast exception to the rule. she got right into congress. most of you that will not happen. you want to start in city council or in school board or in the state legislator. we do not want to do the lottery ticket runs. he is a generational candidate. you and i probably are not. so start at the local level or at the state level. get involved in campaigns first and foremost before. i was knocking on doors as a canvassier that i managed campaigns before i ran my first successful campaign for office. so i think you have to get involved and pick what part of you want to be a part of. then get involved in one or two campaign cycles. but i also give you valuable information on one. how to knock indoors and talk to voters. two about the issues. three had a debate and deal with the press. four had a fundraise and have a sense of how to manage a campaign. so all those things are the fundamentals. and start at a level that you do not need a million dollars to win. and so we build the bench for a point of positions. you know, that is all about winning an executive grant position and for our community as hispanics to pick the winner and fight for them to win. you have governor murphy who i know has a diverse administration, but take president biden, for example, put a reacons. we florida put a reacons to being the most powerful put a reacons on earth. we helped elect barack obama twice in florida. but now it is the pennsylvania put a reacons in the philadelphia suburban area that are the most powerful ones in the country. they helped elect barack obama. and what did we see under our excuse me? they helped elect joe biden. what did we see under barack obama? the first supreme court justice who was a put a reacons first latina in justice sotomayor who i have found out the put a reacons legal defense fund with my great uncle, lorenzo castanova in new york back in the day. and it is our wise latina in the supreme court. just recently talking about education, we have secretary cordona, the first put a reacons in a cabinet position in the history of our nation. huge. we have had some surge in generals, but we never had, but that is not a confirmed cabinet position. he is in the cabinet. we have my good friend, basetta, a mexican american who was a long time member of congress and from california who is a then attorney general. he is slated to be our hhs secretary and a dear friend of mine. he is been in florida many times. but it took back in the right horse to get a point of positions. it is high stakes when trump won, when president trump won, a generation of clinton youth went home. they did not have jobs in dc. they did not get a point. they did not have all these amazing things. they were out. and it was the trump youth. many of them actually from the northeast, from many schools in the northeast that got those opportunities. and now they went home and biden got elected. now you see a whole different group of folks, young people get appointed. it is high stakes. and sometimes you win, sometimes you lose. and when you do, you go into different think tanks or different nonprofits to help form the policy like center for american progress as a classic example, where people will go there and a lot of the folks who were there now, some of the nominees, for some of these positions, or they work in the congress, or they work in their local state government. and it takes also, it is helpful to come from a state like new jersey if you have a democrat in power because we have a unified republican government in florida. the chances of you being a hispanic who is in the cabinet in florida is much more difficult. and without being a cabinet person on the state level, that puts you in a better position than being like an environmental director for a city or for a county. because you have done a much larger level. you see mr. reagan, african american who was the north carolina environmental protection secretary, now, ep, slated to be epa secretary. so the states can be a big training grant also to get to that federal level, which is so difficult. we are talking about 340 million people. it is a very narrow chance, but someone's got to get those positions. and so i am running on campaigns, waiting in exact positions, starting out through campaigns, then starting out through local government or state government and getting into federal government. that is the path for most folks. but you never know. we saw before with my, with my, my, my, my, alexandria that it can happen. it is just rarely. that is why it is so celebrated when it does. and i see we are probably time for another one or two questions and this, this notion of staying engaged, whether it is people running for office or serving in government, but even voters. certainly a lot of our work at the center for youth political participation is registering and mobilizing rutgers students. but can you talk a bit? i see a question from lola, the best way to engage voters and keep voters engaged, looking ahead to future elections. we know in this most recent election, we had very strong voter turnout. how did any recommendations policy you recommend for really maintaining and enhancing voter participation? it is a multi tiered effort. so there is knocking on doors and town halls. and i host a town hall each month on various topics. and then i do round tables with, with, uh, support of coalitions like unions or environmentalists, veterans or my hispanic, uh, round table or my lgbtq round table or, um, my justice round table. so i am listening through round tables, multiple of them a month at a town hall each month. we are knocking on doors to certain elections. so okay. so i am just a part of it to get all the ideas of the needs as well as what you read in the newspaper and what you see, um, i focus more on our, our, our, our local newspapers and our local stations because it is central floor. it is a very, people are concerned about what is happening in that area, um, to a large extent. then from there, you have to put forward a platform that helps solve these issues. and you are, and it is a constant turnover. you solve this, but this comes up and you are doing this over time. then you have to keep people through constant contact, informed on what you are doing to help accomplish it or why it did not work out, but that you committed best efforts. so how do we do that? twitter, facebook, in addition to the town halls and, uh, an email newsletter every week. so for twitter and instagram, we are talking about our, our younger folks, 18 to 20 something, maybe even 30 something and then facebook is more for your late 30s to 50s or 60s. and then emails for, uh, most of the seniors in the district look, seniors vote more than any other demographic. so even as a young person, half your vote could be 50 plus. so if you are a 28 year old running for office, remember half the people who you are looking to get their votes, the most likely voters are almost w. h. but you could still do it. i know. but you need to have that multi tier, not everybody's going to, and then you have to do it over and over again. when you put out one tweet that said, hey, we passed the venezuela tps. happy day. that is not enough. it is got to be over and over and over over the course of months. we are going to pass the samaritan rescue act. i will have multiple events in the district, probably three to four dozen by the time it is over with. in addition to another 30 to 50 posts on it, another 30 to 50 tweets on it over months. because people need to see once we passed it, there is so much at once that it takes time to explain all these things. people need to see that you are improving their lives, that you are delivering. and so it is through that multi tiered ability, some of which is direct contact. in this case, a lot via zoom, although we have had some hybrid town halls, half in person, half in zoom already. florida, the rules are a little different than a majority, but that is a whole another story. but it is that direct contact, social media, listening towards having your advisory committees, the local press is a huge part of the two. in central florida, we are the 22nd largest media market. so i get covered pretty much almost every day in my local press on tv. all i hear from constituents is you are on tv every day. i do not focus on the cable news like msnbc or cnn or fox news because they tend to go to the extremes. in my district really, there is not nearly as many people as watching as the local wsh2 or wkmg or news 13 or others. so that is another way. in new york, in new jersey, it is tougher because you are the largest metro area in the nation, 30 million people. the news is what they say it is in manhattan and on the major stations. i remember being up there and it is hard to get local news. although you are starting to get r equivalent in news 13, some of these other more localized ones that are helpful through spectrum is one of those. but that is a complaint of folks from la and new york and chicago and other areas that they have to go on the cable stations because they have to lay themselves in fire to get news locally. so that is another way, very important for folks who are 40-ish plus to 30-ish plus who are watching the local news. and you have to do that over and over. repeat it, repeat it, repeat it because every time you are doing it, you are getting that much more saturation in your community. and it is a lot of hard work. i would end this question by saying, look at what fdr did. he was excellent at that. with the fireside chats, with keeping it simple with a new deal and explaining how it related to everybody. he was very good at explaining what was happening. i can say, while president obama was one of the best speakers we have had in a generation, there was not as much time spent explaining the affordable care act or explaining the american investment act as there should have been. and there was not enough taking a credit, which is why he got clovered in the midterms. biden is much more of a traditional liberal candidate in the president and the realm of fdr. and you are going to see him talk over and over and over and over and over about the american rescue act. and he is going to go around the country saying, we got you that farm relief. we got you that new highway. we got you that vaccine center. and that is really important to do because this is taxpayer money. we have to show what we are delivering and make that connection. otherwise people think this money is being spent and it does not help the mental home. so that is really important. it takes discipline. so as we are wrapping up, it seems we go back to that importance of connection and relationships and communications. so sadly, our time is wrapping up. and i want to stop and first thank you, congressman soto, for taking time out of your very busy day to join, to come back to rutgers, even if it is via zoom, but to come back to your rutgers community. certainly want to thank the louis family for yet another wonderful program. thank you to all of our co-sponsors, including the rutgers center for social justice education and lgbt communities. rutgers center for latino arts and culture. rutgers university alumni association and the hispanic bar association of new jersey. certainly want to thank you, congressman soto. i feel compelled. i am director of the center for youth political participation. and if you have been inspired by congressman soto today, this afternoon, our center is holding an event called are you running to provide sort of nuts and bolts advice to rutgers students but students around the country who think they might want to run for office one day. so we want to thank you, congressman soto, for joining us. i do not know if there is one last thing you would like to say as we are wrapping up. as young people, the future of our country really most directly affects you. so get involved, get informed and stay involved for a lifetime. you are how we are going to address some of the biggest issues facing our nation from climate change to addressing covid-19, addressing systemic racism and justice issues to having equality, to having an economy that works for all of us. all these things, if you are wondering who the solution is, it is you and your involvement. so thank you to you, dr. matto and thank you to rutgers university for this opportunity to be able to address you all today. thank you. that is a perfect way to end the day and thank you all for joining us and have an excellent day. thank you.