8 years ago, our community came together. right here in ossiola county, this sunday before the election in 2008, and we heard from the man from a place called hope. at that time, eight years ago, our country was grappling with an economic freefall as thousands of our families here in central florida lost their jobs and their homes as we face the great recession. and in that moment, our community here in ossiola came together and spoke with one voice and one heart. and we elected our president barack obama. in these last eight years, our economy has recovered as we have begun to prosper once again, as we evolve our manufacturing, high tech and small businesses across this country. but so much more happened along this journey. in 2008, i was running for my first reelection for the florida house. and i love you, carlos. and in 2008, and this election day, with your help, i will make history as the first puerto rican from florida elected to the united states congress. we also saw the nomination of one of our own, aborita, latina, nominated to the highest court in the land. our united states supreme court justice sonia soto mayor. we also saw the daca and daca programs established so that our dreamers, children brought here on this country through no fault of their own, could take part in the american dream. if you want to thank our president barack obama and fight for our dreamers, let me hear you. we saw the landlord the florida care act providing more than two million more floridians with health care. many of them right here in central florida. if you want to thank our president barack obama, let me hear you. we want to protect our everbites, our springs right here at home. and we finally embarked down the road to fight global warming. if you believe in science, let me hear you. and with our president and supreme court, leading the way, we have become more perfect and more equally union by allowing all americans to marry those who they love. if you believe in equality, let me hear you. and now we are at crossroads once again. the time has come to pass the torture progress through our debate on the credit nominee hillary brottom clinton. we need to get the opportunity to continue down the path of economic prosperity, increase the minimum ways here in central florida and help our brothers and sisters in puerto rico as well. you believe we still need to move forward? let me hear you. we also need help for our young people, for our students, to reduce, to wishes, and attack the rising of the food flow today. let me hear you. we also need to come together in the government that works to improve our nation's infrastructure, our roads, our bridges, and our ports. if you believe the greatest country in the world should have a world class infrastructure and a world class quality of life, let me hear you. we also need to build upon the progress of obamacare to create greater access to high quality health care. if you believe health care is the right and the greatest nation in the world, let me hear you. we also need to continue to protect equality for all americans, regardless of race, religions, sex, sexual orientations. if you believe equality is the way of life here in america, let me hear you. we also need to continue the path that our life plan for comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship. it is time for our different families to be able to come out of the shadows to be able to participate in the american dream and join all of us. you think we need a break for immigrants? let me hear you everyone. we also face a great challenge to make sure to protect social security and medicare for seniors who fought to build this country into the greatest nation in the world and to make sure that it will be available for future generations. if you stand with our seniors, let me hear you. we must also avoid possibly unnecessary wars and take care of our servicemen and women on the battlefield to make sure they know that they fought for freedom and we care about them. we need to ensure that our veterans are welcome home with open arms and have the resources they need to continue as productive members of society. if you care about our veterans, if you believe freedom is not free, you are going to stand by and completely hear you. i trust the mom of first lady, a united states senator, a secretary of state, and the most experienced woman for the job of president to get it done. if you support hillary, not only did you let me hear some noise. hillary, hillary, hillary, hillary, hillary. she is going to need every single one of you because she cannot do it alone. our community must rise once again and speak with one heart and one voice and you are going to let her to the white house. because the kid i go back, we stand here and say we will not be invited, we will not be invited by last june and we will know who we want to love. if you agree, let me hear you. because here in central florida and throughout our country, our diversity is our biggest strength. for we are all equal members of one great family and american family and we are stronger to protect the progress we have made and power our families, our community, our nation, to continue to strive for a bright future for all of us. so please do not forget, today is the last day of early voting here in oceola county. if you vote here, raise your hand. if you have not, now is the time and who is going to vote here until election day. raise your hand. fight until the last day, until the last hour and on election day. we here in central florida will change the world once again and have the first moment in the white house. and you too. we are all equal. we are all equal. let us thank you for your good.