capital police had set out a plan. i guess a couple of weeks ago. is that right? was there a plan in place that everyone been advised what to do if something went wrong? the plan was inadequate. and i am happy to go through the chronology of events that took place from by time in the chamber on work. absolutely. what happened, congressman? we were in the gallery, socially distancing, while listening to the electoral college session. we were in the midst of the objection to date over arizona when we started getting messages from our staff that violent protesters motivated by insightful language from president trump had reached the capitol. and then only a few minutes later, they had to evacuate the vice president, the speaker, and the majority leader. we were then told to pull out our gas mask as they secured the chamber, because they had to use bang gun and gas in the ritunda to repel folks who were trying to get in the chamber. you could hear them banging. you hear the pop, pop, pop sound of the bang gun. and then we were evacuated, as you could hear, the banging of doors by protesters trying to get into the house chamber. we were evacuated down in the state area and secure as the capitol police. it cures the capitol once again, and make no mistake about it. we will proceed with the date, with the electoral college session, and at the end of it, the end of crack, and many republicans will join us to certify the results of joseph biden as the next cousin next state. congressman, are you safe and are your colleagues safe? was there ever a point where you might have been in danger? i am safe. there was a moment where i just take cover lying on the ground, slap. as you could hear, popping sound of what i was not sure whether it was gunshots. now, until they were bang guns, that is his first crowd. and also, there was peer gas. we had to stay there for a few minutes. you could hear folks trying to breach and take chamber, banging away. and then we were brought escorted by capitol police out of the chamber eventually. and down through the hall, there were folks who had tried to breach the chamber on the ground, led spread, and secured who had come just within feet of us in the chamber, as i left. are you saying within feet they got that close? within feet, as i left the chamber doors, they were already on the ground having the police having arrested them. what is your reaction to this even happening? i mean, we have seen protest on the hill before, but this was not a protest. this turned into essentially an assault on one of the icons of america. this was a violent invasion and insurrection of the capitol during the electoral power session, the main bite in the next present that state. it was incited by vitriolic and violent rhetoric of president trump. and there will need to be consequences. democracy came so close today, but we will finish our business. we will stand by, and we will do our jobs. is it going to be difficult to do that job? i mean, you are going to go back tomorrow, i gather. there will not be anything happening tonight. there may even be a continuation of the session tonight that has not been decided yet. but we will finish our jobs. there will be a debate. and i urge my colleague, extremist republicans, on the other side of the aisle, who have been using insightful, violent rhetoric that their words have consequences, that this type of rhetoric is what caused them. and we need to come together. and you will see a majority of democrats and republicans do that. but then you have president trump inciting this violent, and there will have to be consequences to this. but we are left assured to all central floridians. we will see a president biden for the next two weeks. and we will be able to fully develop security for our elections, for our capital, and assess the situation in great detail through a investigation. congressman, thanks for all you do for us. i am glad you are safe. boy, oh boy, what a day. could you imagine in your lifetime ever seeing anything like this? i had hoped i would never see something like this. but we remain resolved to defender the democracy and like generations of americans have to pour it.