[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 74 (Tuesday, April 30, 2024)]
[House]
[Pages H2740-H2750]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
{time}  1530
WESTERN ECONOMIC SECURITY TODAY ACT OF 2023
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 1173, I call
up the bill (H.R. 3397) to require the Director of the Bureau of Land
Management to withdraw a rule of the Bureau of Land Management relating
to conservation and landscape health, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 1173, in lieu
of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the
Committee on Natural Resources, printed in the bill, an amendment in
the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 118-32 shall be considered as adopted, and the bill, as amended,
is considered read.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3397
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ``Western Economic Security
Today Act of 2024'' or the ``WEST Act of 2024''.
SEC. 2. WITHDRAWAL OF BLM RULE.
The final rule based on the proposed rule of the Bureau of
Land Management entitled ``Conservation and Landscape
Health'' (88 Fed. Reg. 19583 (April 3, 2023)) shall have no
force or effect.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill, as amended, shall be debatable for
1 hour, equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking
minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources or their
respective designees.
The gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Westerman) and the gentleman from
Colorado (Mr. Neguse) each will control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Westerman).
General Leave
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks
and insert extraneous material on H.R. 3397.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from Arkansas?
There was no objection.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of Representative Curtis' bill,
H.R. 3397, the Western Economic Security Today Act, or WEST Act of
2024.
The WEST Act withdraws the flawed and illegal Conservation and
Landscape Health Rule, which was finalized earlier this month by the
Bureau of Land Management, or the BLM.
You may be asking, why is a rule focused on conservation and
landscape health so bad. Well, it wouldn't be bad if that was what it
was really focused on, but the name is very misleading.
This rule is a poorly concealed effort to lock up more lands to
advance the Biden administration's radical 30x30 agenda. It has
absolutely nothing to do with true conservation or improving the health
of our landscapes.
Responsible uses of BLM lands are central to the Western way of life.
This rule would fundamentally upend more than 50 years of land
management practices across the West that rural communities have relied
on for their livelihoods.
Under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act, or FLPMA, the BLM
is mandated to manage lands in accordance with multiple use and
sustained yield. If responsible use and development of public lands are
prohibited, family and small businesses, multigeneration ranches, local
communities, and schools will suffer from a lack of economic
development, access, and tax revenue.
This is more than just a Western issue. If you ate a hamburger this
week or filled your car with gas, this rule affects you. This rule will
severely impact the lives and wallets of every single American. Haven't
we had enough of that already? Haven't we had enough of inflation and
rising prices?
The finalized rule will broadly allow the BLM to lease lands under
new and vaguely defined ``restoration and mitigation leases'' and
change standards around land use decisions. The rule will elevate
conservation as a use of our public lands. This is clearly
contradictory with both the plain reading of FLPMA and Congress'
intent.
Congress very clearly defined the principal or major uses of BLM
lands to ``include, and be limited to, domestic livestock grazing, fish
and wildlife development and utilization, mineral exploration and
production, rights-of-way, outdoor recreation, and timber
[[Page H2741]]
production.'' Nowhere in the act do the words ``conservation,''
``restoration,'' or ``mitigation'' appear as a use.
Conservation is not a use. It is a value and an outcome that can be
generated by the uses that I just mentioned.
If the administration determines that uses such as grazing, timber
production, energy production, mining, or recreation are incompatible
with the lease, they would not be allowed and could be prohibited
indefinitely from those lands.
At best, the rule is duplicative, unnecessary, and burdensome.
Meaningful conservation work is already being done on the 245 million
acres of BLM land with multiple stakeholders. Often uses overlap on BLM
land and coexist with each other. Meaningful conservation occurs
simultaneously with and often for the mutual benefit of other uses,
like grazing and recreation.
At worst, restoration and mitigation leases are a guise to restrict
any meaningful activity on Federal land, including energy and mineral
production, and timber management.
The final rule allows the BLM to issue mitigation leases indefinitely
and waives fees on restoration leases. That would take land that could
otherwise be creating a return for the American taxpayer and give it
away for free to environmental extremists.
What will this rule look like on the ground and mean for Westerners?
Specifically, the Biden administration can kick off the
multigenerational rancher who has been grazing on the land since before
the Bureau of Land Management existed. They can restrict the mining of
the minerals we need for phones, computers, cars, and batteries to
sustain life. They can limit oil and gas development, creating
dependence on hostile foreign nations and threatening our economic
prosperity.
In addition to this new convoluted leasing system, the rule would
also expedite the designation of Areas of Critical Environmental
Concern by removing public comment periods and allowing the BLM to
``temporarily'' restrict land use without public input. This provides
the BLM with virtually unlimited authority to lock up millions of acres
without any input from the public or support.
The rule sorely favors types of energy development the administration
likes and hurts other responsible energy development they have deemed
unworthy.
The rule chooses winners and losers. Wealthy elites who want to
protect views from their mansions or extreme environmental groups who
want to kick locals off of public lands are the winners.
Guides and outfitters who bring young and old alike to our public
lands or the ranching family who works every day to put food on
millions of American tables are the losers.
In finalizing this rule, the Biden administration has jeopardized the
activities and land used to feed and fuel our country. Make no mistake:
This affects every American. This impacts every acre, every user, every
lease, and every American.
The finalized rule comes after a year-long effort by Western
Governors, communities, stakeholders, and Members of Congress calling
for the abandonment of this flawed rule. The concerns fell on deaf ears
within the Biden administration. This prompted us to bring this bill to
the floor this week, forcing the withdrawal of the rule.
Mr. Speaker, I again thank Representative Curtis for his work on the
bill, and I urge all my colleagues to support H.R. 3397, the WEST Act
of 2024. I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill, the so-called WEST
Act.
I have great respect for the chairman and the Member who has authored
this particular piece of legislation, but we strongly disagree about
this particular bill, and I want to tell you why.
First and foremost, just by way of context, we have been on the House
floor all day today, the better part of a few hours, debating proposals
that the majority has submitted that would roll back environmental
protections.
House Republicans want to remove protections for pristine Boundary
Waters watershed in Minnesota. They want to eliminate protections for
endangered species. As we heard during the last debate, apparently now
they want to increase the use of poisonous lead ammunition. This is not
what this august body should be spending its time focused on.
Unfortunately, H.R. 3397 is just more of the same. Now, I heard
during the presentation by my distinguished colleague on the other side
of the aisle reference to hamburgers, the cost of gasoline, and
mansions, I believe, none of which have anything to do with this
particular bill, Mr. Speaker.
I want to try to explain to the American people what this bill is all
about. The Biden administration, in short, has taken steps to enhance
public land stewardship. House Republicans are standing in the way.
What do I mean by that? Two weeks ago, on April 18, the Biden
administration released the Bureau of Land Management's Conservation
and Landscape Health Final Rule, or what has been referred to as the
public lands rule.
The rule is a necessary and long overdue update to the agency's
framework for public lands management. In particular, the rule will
protect clean water, clean air, and wildlife habitat. It will promote
the restoration of degraded landscapes. It will ensure that decisions
are based on the best available science in collaboration with Tribal,
local, and rural communities. That, Mr. Speaker, is progress.
Here is what the bill does not do: It does not disallow or preclude
any one of the multiple uses that the chairman referenced during the
opening of this particular debate. As my colleagues on the other side
have described the rule, I think I heard the word duplicative. The rule
is either duplicative or, in the view of the majority, as they have
said, it ends all uses of all land in all of the country. It can't be
both.
Clearly, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle take issue with
this particular rule and its protection of wildlife and its inclusion
of conservation. I understand that disagreement, but the American
people do not agree with that position.
The Bureau of Land Management, or BLM, just by way of background,
manages more than 245 million acres of Federal public land, which is
roughly one-tenth of America's land base. In my home State of Colorado,
the BLM manages more than 8.3 million acres of land.
Many of those acres are near my district; just by way of example, the
Yampa Valley Trail in Moffat County.
This includes, by the way, national conservation lands, a collection
of revered, treasured landscapes, recreation destinations, other
special places that are managed to protect resources to us as
Americans. These lands stretch across the Rocky Mountain West. Our
citizens, our constituents, rely on these lands, and that is why this
rule is such a critical development.
It is also why this rule is so popular. Mr. Speaker, over 90 percent
of the comments received during the extensive public comment period
were positive. Those comments came from local community leaders,
outdoor recreation industry, scientists, small businesses, Tribal
communities, many others, citizens in my State and States across the
West. They want to see our public lands managed in a balanced and
sustainable manner that will promote access and resilience, and that is
exactly what the Biden administration has achieved with this new rule
and why I am proud to support it.
Now, again, I don't want to belabor this point, but it bears
repeating. Despite the claims from my Republican colleagues, the plain
language of this rule does not prioritize one use over another. It does
not do that. I encourage any American who wishes to learn more to look
at the plain language of the rule. It simply puts conservation on equal
footing with livestock grazing, mining, and oil and gas development. It
doesn't block or stifle development. It achieves a critical balance,
and that balance is important; a reasonable balance, a prudent balance.
I support this rule because it will enable us to make science-based
and informed decisions about the management of our Nation's public
lands. I would encourage all of my colleagues to support the rule for
the same reason. If they do, I would encourage my colleagues to oppose
this bill, which seeks to undermine those efforts, and to oppose the
legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
[[Page H2742]]
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
As I was listening to my friend from Colorado's comments, I was
reminded of a saying that a graduate school professor who taught
statistics used to say: Numbers and people are a lot alike. If you
torture them long enough, they will tell you anything you want to know.
This study that my colleagues talk about references a cherry-picked
10,000 comments that were analyzed, and according to the BLM just over
8,000 were actually unique comments. That means that 2,000 of the
comments were identical comments. These are comments that get submitted
when you put clickbait out there and say, ``Send this comment in,'' and
you just hit the button from your favorite radical environmental group,
and it goes into the BLM or to the other Federal agency.
Also, you know, I would expect the results to actually be even higher
because it is kind of like asking: ``Do you like ice cream?'' or ``Do
you like chocolate?'' or ``Do you like candy?'' When you say, are you
for conservation and protecting the land, yeah, most people I think are
for that. However, when you look at what this rule does, it is anything
but that. It locks up land and takes it away from the multiple uses
that Congress has designated that this BLM land is for.
{time}  1545
Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from Utah (Mr.
Curtis), the sponsor of the legislation.
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of my bill, the
Western Economic Security Today Act of 2023, or the WEST Act.
My bill, as has been discussed, would require the Bureau of Land
Management to withdraw their proposal regulating conservation of
landscape health.
Utah's farmers and ranchers for generations have worked on this land,
leaving it better than they found it. They understand how to live in a
way that strengthens the landscape but allows for them to provide for
their family and their community. I like to tease them that they are
the original environmentalists. They don't always like that term.
Ironically, this rule also undermines the work of these individuals
who keep the land in good health and help prevent the risk of wildfires
to instead lock the public out of Utah's lands.
Let me be clear: I have immense respect for Utah's local land
managers who do their best with the resources they have. I appreciate
their commitment to integrating into each unique community and working
hard to find consensus. They are not the problem. The problem is
Washington politicians who think they know better than the generations
of families who actually live in Utah.
The question isn't whether or not we want to protect these lands but
who gets to make the decisions.
Since coming to Congress, one of my favorite experiences has been
connecting with Utah's rural communities. They give so much and ask for
so little. They work hard to feed our families, protect American
energy, and lead in manufacturing. We should be making it easier for
them.
Instead, the Biden administration is pushing this rule to allow
environmental groups funded by Swiss billionaires who pretend to be
representing Utahns to lock up public lands. This is completely
backward.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the Record two stories about how this
foreign dark money is funding environmental groups in Utah.
ADVENTURE . . . What's in a Name?
Recently I Googled ``Moab'' and ``adventure'' on my
computer and came up with 480,000 hits. Apparently there are
adventures enough to be found in Moab to keep tourists
entertained and spending their money until the next
Millennium. Just to mention a handful, I found the Moab
Adventure Center, Moab Adventure Xstream, Moab Adventure
Headquarters, Moab Adventure Inn, Moab Adventure Package,
Moab Adventure Guide, Moab Desert Adventures, Adventure
Xscapes, Adventure Racing Retreats, Moab Resort Adventure
Package and a link to the Moab Adventure Park, from WWTI
Newswatch50 in, of all places. Watertown, New York. They
reported the following:
MOAB, Utah--Riding down the ski lift from the highest point
on the red-rock rim overlooking the Moab Valley in Utah, our
feet dangled some 800 feet in the air as Scott McFarland
talked about the latest project for his Moab Adventure Park.
``We're applying for permits for a zip-line, a 2,500-foot-
long cable that goes from the top of the hill to the
bottom.'' McFarland said. ``You get into a harness on the top
and cruise to the bottom, kind of like you're flying.
``Without a braking system, you'd hit about 145 miles per
hour. With the system, you'll go 50 or 60. That's on the
computer, anyway. We'll see.'' One of the city's concerns in
considering the permits is its noise ordinance. Nearby
residents are worried about screams coming from riders
zipping down the cliff.''
Sad to say that's one adventure we'll never have to
embrace, thanks to one of my favorite environmental groups,
The Nature Conservancy, who bought the tram and removed it
from the face of the earth.
By comparison, if you travel just 55 miles south to the
sleepy Mormon/cowboy hamlet of Monticello, the ``adventure''
falls off dramatically, to just 759. What do you expect nom a
town without a brew pub? I kept searching for an adventure-
free town and the best I could hope for was Benkelman,
Nebraska that could only muster 154 hits and Gnaw Bone,
Indiana with a paltry 64.
At the other end of the adventure scale, nearby Aspen,
Colorado kicks Moab's relatively passive as with 1,890,000
adventure hits and New York City, the Gotham of all Thrills,
generates an incredible 8,370,000 hits. But if you can
believe this, according to Google, you can find four times as
many adventures in New York as You can in Baghdad, which
produced less than 2 million hits. That is a telling piece of
information. Just what kinds of adventures are we talking
about?
And what exactly is an ``adventure?'' According to one
internet dictionary, an adventure is ``an undertaking or
enterprise of a hazardous nature,'' or ``an undertaking of a
questionable nature (both sound like Baghdad to me as well as
certain areas of the Big Apple).''
Or . . . ``an unusual or exciting experience.''
This is the definition I was looking for. This is the kind
of adventure that tourists are in search of when they come to
places like Moab. Most if not all of the ``Moab Adventure''
Google hits are commercial enterprises, anxious and eager to
provide an ``exciting and unusual experience'' for the paying
public. Their businesses certainly CANNOT be, to even a
modest degree, ``hazardous in nature.'' I doubt if any
adventure tour company could survive if its owners faced
their first customers of the day and announced, ``Listen up
people . . . we want all of you to understand that there's a
real good chance only half of you will survive this hike to
the Fiery Furnace . . . the rest of you will probably die in
free falls or rock collapses. So call your friends and family
now and tell them how much you love `em.''
And forget about experiences of a ``questionable nature.''
Add to the previous warning this addendum: ``And don't forget
our climbing equipment is as old as my granny and she passed
on in 1965, so don't be surprised if that ol' rotten frayed
rope we use snaps like a dry twig.''
No . . . none of this would pass muster. Instead, the
adventure tour companies must endure all kinds of
inspections, meet various federal standards, and pay
substantial insurance premiums, to insure that the
``adventure'' is as free of hazards as humanly possible. It's
okay for the customer to get excited, and compared to the
workaday/cubicle life he or she leaves behind to come on this
adventure vacation, how could it be anything but? But is it
really an adventure?
I have my own adventure definition--I would call it a
``spontaneously sought, poorly planned, even stupidly
conceived exploration of a mystery.'' Spontaneity is critical
to an adventure. How can an adventure be planned and
scheduled? And a real adventure should have an unknown
component to it . . . maybe there will be hazards ahead . . .
maybe not. Who knows? It's a Mystery!!
But this is what it's become:
``Now let's see Kimberly . . . I'm thinking . . . an
adventure that starts around 10am would be perfect because I
want to have a leisurely breakfast at the Jailhouse Cafe.
Love the eggs benedict! Then maybe a rappel somewhere? Or
would you rather do a boat thing? No more than $100 . . .
$150 tops. And back here by four for drinks at McStiff's . .
. does that sound perfect or what?''
I know . . . I know! Once again, I'm out of touch with
Mainstream Adventure America and how can I argue with 480,000
Google hits and a booming adventure economy? (I think even a
couple of my advertisers have ``adventure'' in there
somewhere). But like so many other words--wilderness--for
instance, an adventure just isn't what it used to be, or even
mean, I'll take my adventures as they come, unplanned,
unscheduled, free, and if it kills me, I just hope I don't
die with a cell phone clutched in my hand, frantically
punching 911 as I hurtle toward the greatest adventure of
them all.
DYNAMO JIM STILES
If this doesn't give me some credence as an adventurous
type, I don't know what will. Someone told me that the first
issue of The Zephyr was being auctioned on eBay and while
searching for it. I discovered this out-of-print book.
This is from the book description:
``James Stiles was a banker and educator. Most notably, he
was the publisher of the Nassau (County, NY) Post, Daily
Review and Review-Star. His newspapers, and other local work
like his stints as director of Roosevelt Raceway and trustee
and chairman of
[[Page H2743]]
Adelphi College, were key in the growth of this New York City
bedroom community.
Strange. Here's the cover.
SUWA, can you spare a dime?
When I made southeast Utah my home, almost 30 years ago, I
came for one reason--I came for the rocks--for the most
stunning display of intricately carved, brilliantly hued red
rocks imaginable. It's the kind of place one can believe only
exists in Dreams. I've lived here ever since.
I was very young when I arrived in Moab and like so many
other wide-eyed idealists of the time, viewed the battle to
save the canyon country's dwindling wilderness lands in very
black and white terms. And with good reason. Then, southeast
Utah was still a vast, mostly unpopulated expanse of deserts
and mountains, dotted with tiny communities that had changed
little in a century, which depended mostly on the extractive
industries for survival and which might, at best, get a small
boost from tourism during the summer. And so
environmentalists devoted their time and energy and resources
to fight the threats to wildlands they thought were most
persistent and enduring--mining, timber, and cattle
Naturally I went searching for kindred spirits, those
individuals and groups that shared my love for the red rocks,
hoping together we could save some of it. Among those
Quixotic spirits was the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance.
When SUWA was created, in the early 1980s, it was a small
grass roots organization dedicated to preserving wilderness,
with its headquarters in ``the heart of the storm,'' Boulder,
Utah. SUWA's founders were burned in effigy in nearby
Escalante, and the group gained a reputation early-on for
being the little guys who weren't afraid of a flight.
In the late-80s, under the leadership of Brant Calkin, SUWA
expanded its membership base dramatically, made Utah
wilderness a national issue and pushed forward with a 5.7
million acres wilderness bill. Brant is almost regarded as a
patron saint among environmentalists. A few years ago, Scott
Groene, SUWA's current Executive Director wrote, ``Brant
Calkin is the best damn environmentalist that ever worked on
the Colorado Plateau, and he's done more to protect southern
Utah wilderness than anyone alive or dead.'' Groene noted
Calkin's ascetic approach to environmentalism. ``Brant
offered his staff low pay but lots of autonomy to `do good
and fight evil.'. . . He offered as rationale both that
environmentalists have an obligation to spend their members'
money wisely . . .'' Through it all, Brant did his job,
``with a quiet humility, integrity, and basic decency towards
both his opponents and friends.''
And he shared the Executive Director's 20,000 a year with
the Associate Director until his retirement in 1993.
``Brant never stopped working,'' Groene noted, ``whether it
was leading the Utah Wilderness Coalition out of shaky
consensus efforts, hustling money, or fixing a fleet a beater
SUWA cars (he was renown for resurrecting aging office
equipment and trucks). And when it seemed everything was
done, he'd start cleaning the office.''
Brant also believed the key to success was to ``build the
membership,'' and by the mid-90s SUWA was financially secure
and its membership had grown nationwide to more than 20,000.
But if it's true that most good deeds go unrewarded, SUWA
is a notable exception. In the late-90s SUWA suddenly found
itself flush with money. A million dollar grant from the Pew
Charitable Trusts and a $524,000 contribution from the Wyss
Foundation put the once struggling Utah wilderness group into
a different financial realm. The Wyss donation was
particularly fortuitous. Its founder, Swiss-born Hansjorg
Wyss, became a member of SUWA's Board of Directors in 1996
and is its current chairman. Wyss is a multi-billionaire who
is the president of Synthes, an international company that
manufactures biotech and surgical implants. In 2004, Forbes
Global called Wyss the 26th wealthiest person in Europe with
almost $6 billion; by 2005 he rose to 18th place with an
accumulated wealth of almost $8 billion. That's right . . .
billion.
Hansjorg Wyss's contributions to SUWA include a $900,000
building in downtown Salt Lake City and another $500,000 in
renovations. The old three-story home is now SUWA's very
comfortably appointed headquarters (memories of Brant fixing
aging office equipment almost seem quaint) and contributions
from Wyss and others have swelled SUWA's financials.
According to its 2004 tax return, SUWA has almost $5 million
in ``net assets and fund balances,'' including $2.5 million
in ``savings and temporary cash investments'' and nearly
$300,000 in ``non-interest bearing cash (imagine keeping that
kind of cash reserve in an account that draws zero
interest).'' It has mutual funds and stock investments and a
Charles Schwaab account worth almost $1 million and another
$1 million in land, buildings and equipment.
With all those assets, plans are now being finalized to
hold a gala party in late May as a tribute to Hansjorg Wyss.
The event, to be held at a posh hotel in New York City, will
cost about $100,000. But according to SUWA, ``it's a fund
raising event . . . (it) will raise us money.''
I have to ask How much more money does SUWA need?
No one can fault SUWA for its good fortune but Utah's most
prominent environmental organization is starting to look more
like a bank. And while its coffers have grown, its
membership, according to a SUWA source, has fallen by almost
30 percent to less than 14,000.
Meanwhile, threats to Utah's wildlands are becoming more
complicated and more diverse. The explosion of growth in
``New West'' towns like Moab and St. George, to name just a
couple, are creating environmental impacts unheard of 20
years ago. Urban sprawl isn't confined to Salt Lake City
anymore. Wildlife habitat in rural parts of Utah is being
threatened by residential and commercial development.
Nonmotorized recreation and the commercial exploitation of
national parks and proposed wilderness areas are affecting a
key component of wilderness--solitude. And a proposed dam on
the Bear River and a pipeline from Lake Powell to St. George
will surely create another thorny bundle of environmental
nightmares.
And yet, while SUWA remains Utah's most vigilant watchdog
in areas of ORV abuse, oil and gas exploration and public
lands grazing, it steadfastly refuses to involve itself in
any of these ``New West'' issues. SUWA insists it is a
wilderness organization, with the very specific goal of
establishing a 9.3 million acre BLM wilderness bill. It is
reluctant to spend a penny on worthy causes that fall outside
that self-imposed restriction. ``Our top priority,'' says
Executive Director Groene, ``is protecting our wilderness
proposal. Until we have protected the lands that qualify as
wilderness, the issues outside our boundaries will be lower
priorities.'' He calls the SUWA surplus its ``war chest, for
use in emergencies or when extraordinary opportunities arise,
and with board approval.'' SUWA's rainy day fund.
In case they haven't noticed . . . it's raining buckets.
So, if SUWA isn't willing to become involved in some of
these other pressing issues that fall outside the realm of
BLM wilderness, perhaps SUWA can part with some of its
surplus and give it to organizations that will. Just off the
top of my head and without asking any of them if they need
extra funding, I can think of several worthy Utah
environmental groups: The High Uintahs Preservation Council,
the Utah Rivers Council, the Nine Mile Coalition, the Utah
Environmental Congress, Save Our Canyons, Friends of the
Great Salt Lake and my sentimental favorite, the Glen Canyon
Institute. I'm sure this barely scratches the surface of
worthy would-be recipients. But all of these organizations
are doing good and noble work and when someone with SUWA's
assets can lend a hand, why not?
Ultimately aren't we all on the same side? Don't all these
groups share a common goal--to improve the quality of Utah's
natural resources and to preserve and protect the beauty of a
landscape that is dear to us all? Brant Calkin urged SUWA to
``spend its money wisely.'' What could be wiser and
ultimately more satisfying than sharing its largesse where it
can accomplish the most?
MOAB CITY COPS . . . LEAVE THE ZEPHYR WEBMASTER ALONE!!!
For the last couple of years, the Zephyr web site has been
managed and maintained with skill and reliability by Moabite
Gary Henderson. He's also a baker at Red Rock Bakery (and a
longtime advertiser) on Main Street.
Three times now in the last couple of months, Gary has been
``pulled over'' by Moab's finest while riding his BICYCLE to
work in the early morning hours.
He was forced to provide ID, though clearly he had done
nothing wrong and was even required to explain a ``lump in
his pocket'' that the police thought looked suspicious.
This is nothing new for the Moab Police Department; I
personally experienced this kind of harassment (though not
quite so direct) a little more than a year ago. And many
Moabites have their own stories to tell.
I hope that Chief Navarre and Mayor Dave Sakrison and the
City Council will pay a bit more attention to these kinds of
incidents. Maybe you guys could table a few subdivision
proposals for a while and devote some time to the well being
of your constituents . . . it seems to me that's about all
the city and county governments ever deal with nowadays.
And leave Gary alone!
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, the link to the second story can be found
here:
https://www.eenews.net/articles/quietly-philanthropic-tycoon-
makes-his-mark-in-the-west/
.
Mr. Speaker, the Biden administration didn't even pretend to care
what rural Utahns thought about this rule. I sent a letter nearly a
year ago with my Natural Resources Committee colleagues, asking the
agency to hold more public listening sessions on this rule, including a
session in Utah. Instead, the agency ignored this request and finalized
the rule.
Over 60 percent of Utah's land is federally managed. I have counties
with 90 percent, yet no public listening session was held in Utah.
This rule has an oversized impact on our State. That is why the WEST
Act must pass today.
We must fight to stop this rule and then immediately repeal it under
the
[[Page H2744]]
next administration. It is critical that Utah's lands remain under the
stewardship of those who have tended it for generations.
There is a lot of hyperbole in Washington, and I am genuine when I
say this is one of the most offensive attacks on rural Utah I have seen
in my career. I will continue to work tirelessly to repeal this
disastrous effort.
My bill, the WEST Act, is pushing against this flawed rule. We should
be empowering local communities, not punishing them.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman from
New Mexico (Ms. Stansbury).
Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, I stand today to also respectfully oppose
H.R. 3397, or what my colleagues across the aisle are calling the WEST
Act.
I, too, have great respect for the chair and for the sponsor of this
bill, and especially for the farmers, ranchers, and land stewards who
were just referenced, but I vehemently disagree with the premise of
what this bill and the underlying rule do and how it was characterized.
This bill would overturn a long-overdue administrative action to
protect our public lands, wildlife, and cultural sites and access to
the outdoors, with the intent of tipping the scales back to a time when
extractive industries--oil and gas companies, multinational mining
corporations, and developers--had the upper hand in dictating the uses
of our public lands.
Like so many efforts by the GOP this Congress to chip away at our
rights, unfortunately, this bill seeks to undermine and strip away the
Bureau of Land Management's recently released final public lands rule,
which establishes a framework to protect our Nation's public lands and
ensure healthy ecosystems, waters, and wildlife, and a historic effort
to protect the special places and cultural sites that are so important
to our communities, their identities, and who they are, especially for
our Tribal communities.
Unlike the disinformation that has been offered up here today, this
rule will not stop other productive uses on public lands but will
ensure that they are informed by the best-available science, protect
our ecosystems, and provide for climate resilience, and it will ensure
that we are not developing on sensitive and sacred sites.
In fact, in New Mexico, when we implemented a similar rule on our
State lands, not only did it not end resource development but the State
saw historic revenues from these activities on State lands while we
managed to protect the special places that make us who we are.
I say to my friends out there across the West: Don't buy into the
political hype and disinformation. This actually is about protecting
our public lands and is what our public lands management is supposed to
look like. That is why it was supported by more than 90 percent of the
comments that were submitted. The vast majority of Americans, in fact,
over 80 percent across the political spectrum, support protecting
public lands.
That is why I strongly stand with the President, Secretary Haaland,
and the good people of BLM, who are working every day to preserve our
lands, waters, and cultural sites.
Under the same rubric of protecting our public lands and waters, I
also stand to oppose H.R. 3195, which would similarly withdraw a
Department of the Interior effort to protect 225,000 acres in the
Boundary Waters from mineral leasing. This bill would rescind DOI's
public land order and would put America's most visited wilderness at
risk of sulfide or copper mining by a large multinational corporation
based out of South America.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I yield an additional 1\1/2\ minutes to the
gentlewoman from New Mexico.
Ms. STANSBURY. Mr. Speaker, in spite of over a million dollars that
this corporation has spent lobbying the U.S. Government, the people
have spoken and submitted over 675,000 public comments to protect the
Boundary Waters.
That is why I support the protection of this pristine, interconnected
waterway, forest ecosystems, and the homelands of the Anishinaabe
people who have lived here since time immemorial.
One mining accident could irrevocably destroy these lands and waters
forever. New Mexico knows this history all too well, which is why I
strongly oppose H.R. 3195 and support the administration's actions in
protecting Boundary Waters.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Washington (Mr. Newhouse), the chairman of the Congressional Western
Caucus.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Westerman, the chairman of the
Natural Resources Committee, for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3397, the Western
Economic Security Today Act.
Since day one in office, President Biden has consistently attacked
our Western way of life. His administration's latest effort is one of
the most egregious examples of Federal overreach against our public
lands in decades.
Two weeks ago, the Bureau of Land Management finalized their
conservation and landscape health rule in spite of staunch opposition
to the proposal. This rule illegally elevates conservation under the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act's multiple-use mandate for
public lands, contrary to congressional intent, and means that
America's lands could be locked up from their intended purposes.
The rule threatens production of America's abundant natural
resources, grazing, and recreational access to our public lands, all
for the sake of a political handout to climate alarmists and activists.
As chairman of the Congressional Western Caucus, I have been fighting
against this rule because prosperity in rural Western America is under
attack. I am proud to join my friend from Utah in support of this
legislation to overturn this rule and protect our Western way of life.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Utah (Mr. Moore).
Mr. MOORE of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Westerman for
bringing this important bill to the floor today.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 3397, the Western
Economic Security Today Act, led by my friend and colleague, Mr.
Curtis.
This bill will stop the latest Biden administration attack on the
Western way of life. Last week, I attended a Natural Resources
Committee field hearing in Hurricane, Utah, and heard firsthand how
destructive the BLM's conservation and landscape health rule will be to
communities.
By allowing arbitrary standards and vaguely defined leases to lock up
lands from grazing, energy production, and recreation, the BLM is
leaving rural America behind and costing our economy billions of
dollars in the process.
We are going to hear the back and forth about this particular bill
today. What it comes down to is actually listening to the people doing
the job. That is what we do out West. We actually do the job that
America needs for our energy, for our food. Everything that we live on
in our society primarily comes from out West.
For Washington, D.C., bureaucrats to not listen to ranchers that have
been grazing and farming that land in Utah for generations is the most
offensive thing that can exist in this world of politics, and there is
a lot there. This does not make sense. Go listen to somebody who is
looking and seeing. They are terrified because there is no trust. There
is trust in the balance that we want to talk about because there is
always government overreach when we talk about the balance of using
Federal lands.
The multiuse is so concerning. They want to be able to graze, keep
fire risk low, and grow livestock in a responsible way. They do not
trust that the balance trying to be sold on this particular initiative
is sincere. I believe them when they say this is bad because I am
representing them.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, look, I have, again, great respect for the chairman and
the gentleman from Utah who just spoke, but balance is exactly what we
are trying to achieve. As a Representative from the West, I can tell
you that my constituents support this rule, as do the vast majority of
folks out West.
[[Page H2745]]
There have been these repeated references to Washington. I think the
phrase was Washington bureaucrats. I don't know about the gentleman
from Utah. Perhaps he doesn't have a relationship with the land
management in his State. I certainly have a very productive and robust
relationship with our BLM partners in Colorado, including the Western
headquarters, which is based in Grand Junction, Colorado--one of the
reasons, by the way, that one of the comment sessions, the forums
hosted by the BLM with respect to the rulemaking on this particular
rule, was held in Colorado.
The agency is listening to the folks on the ground, to citizens, to
folks in rural America, to folks in the Rocky Mountain West, to hunters
and anglers who, by the way, also support this rule.
There have been multiple references to this notion that somehow, by
the BLM promulgating this rule, that enables multiple use and does not
put one use ahead of another, that that would somehow negatively
implicate hunters or anglers--not true.
How do we know it is not true? Because the back-country hunters and
anglers sent a letter yesterday to the Speaker of the House. I will
read from it:
We strongly urge the House of Representatives to vote
``no'' on these bills. The bills that they are referencing
include, among others, the WEST Act.
In particular, I will again read from their letter, not my words:
H.R. 3397, that is the WEST Act, would prohibit the
implementation of the recently finalized BLM public lands
rule. Hunters and anglers widely supported this forward-
looking, comprehensive rule that will have a meaningful
impact on fish and wildlife habitat by prioritizing
conservation and restoration alongside other types of land
use.
{time}  1600
This is a reasonable rule. It is a prudent rule that unfortunately is
being threatened by this extreme bill that I don't think the majority
of the American people will support.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
This isn't just a minor rule. This is a major rule that the BLM is
pushing out.
When they held their listening sessions, they were located in places
that were inconvenient for communities and stakeholders who are most
affected by the rule to actually participate in.
Only three of the listening sessions held by the BLM were in person,
and they were all three in major cities. They were in Albuquerque,
Denver, and Reno.
Two of the five listening sessions were held virtually, affecting
rural communities who have limited access to the internet.
The BLM refused to hold listening sessions in the following Western
States: Alaska, Arizona, California, Idaho, Montana, North Dakota,
Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Wyoming, and Washington.
You would think if they really cared about what the local
stakeholders thought, they would have gone out to them and had
listening sessions where people could have participated.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from Oregon (Mr.
Bentz), the chairman of the Subcommittee on Water, Wildlife, and
Fisheries.
Mr. BENTZ. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chair Westerman for giving me the
opportunity to speak in favor of this important bill.
This bill would reverse a rule that essentially destroys multiple use
of Federal lands. However, to put this in perspective, we should call
out how much land we are actually talking about.
Looking at the Bureau of Land Management's web page, the Bureau of
Land Management administers more surface land, 245 million acres, or
one-tenth of America's land base, and more subsurface mineral States,
700 million acres, than any other agency in the United States.
The BLM's mission, which is principally defined by the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act, FLPMA, directs the agency to carry out a
dual mandate, that of managing public land for multiple uses while
conserving national, historical, and cultural resources.
Mr. Speaker, this is incredibly important because what the rule does
is to prioritize conservation. Contrary to what we have heard
repeatedly from the other side of the aisle, there is a prioritization.
Let me read from the rule itself, page 19583 of the Federal Register,
which says: ``The Bureau of Land Management proposes new regulations
that, pursuant to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976
(FLPMA), as amended, and other relevant authorities, would advance the
BLM's mission to manage the public lands for multiple use and sustained
yield `by prioritizing the health and resilience of ecosystems across
those lands.'''
Now, one could argue, I suppose, that means it just brings it level,
but I would suggest it makes it much more important than the other
uses. It certainly could be read that way.
The proposed rule provides that the BLM will protect intact
landscapes--will protect, doesn't say might--restore degraded habitat,
and make wise management decisions based on science and data.
To support these activities, the proposed rule would apply land
health standards to all BLM-managed lands and uses and clarify that
conservation is a ``use''.
Well, what they are trying to do is say it is no higher on the scale
than any of the other uses, but in point of fact, in the same
paragraph, they suggest and, I think, direct otherwise.
It astounds me that my colleagues from across the aisle--actually, I
wrote down shocks. I think it is a better word--that they would want to
increase our reliance on China for rare earth minerals, which this bill
would do by making it possible to stop mining, to continue to turn a
blind eye to the children and others laboring in slave labor conditions
in Congo, to continue to export our needs for rare earth minerals to
other countries where damage to the environment is extraordinarily
greater than would be the case here in America.
Why we persist in trying to export these horrific activities and try
to pretend they are not happening is beyond me.
This rule that our bill would reverse gives us an opportunity to
perhaps, at least start doing our part of shoring up the minerals
necessary for all of the so-called green bad deal. I think it is
referred to as the Green New Deal on the other side of the aisle or the
green deal.
The point is that this bill would make it that much more difficult to
obtain the minerals necessary in this country. This is truly overreach
by the BLM and something that needs to be reversed.
To suggest that this has not been prioritized is incorrect at several
levels, one of which I already called out. The other, you can go to
page 19588 of the Register, and it calls out what conservation means.
It says: ``Within the framework of the proposed rule, `protection' and
`restoration' together constitute conservation.''
Protection and restoration. Those words sound so great, but what it
amounts to is a barrier to our entry upon some of those millions upon
millions of acres of public land--another barrier, as if we didn't have
enough.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the distinguished
gentlewoman from California (Ms. Kamlager-Dove).
Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose H.R. 3397,
legislation that would require the Bureau of Land Management to
withdraw a finalized Biden administration rule that expands
conservation on Federal land.
The rhetoric surrounding the BLM final rule has claimed it is nothing
more than a mere land grab by the Federal Government, which could not
be further from the truth.
The final rule is an avenue to conserving not only our public lands
but also Tribal sacred sites and cultural resources.
The final rule allows sacred sites and cultural resources to be
placed under conservation leases for preservation and protection. It is
a step in the right direction to strengthen cultural prevention.
The United States has a shameful history of dispossession of land
through Federal policy, statutes, and cultural and physical violence
inflicted upon indigenous peoples, such as the Indian Removal Act and
the dissolution of Tribal governments and reservations under the
termination era.
[[Page H2746]]
Our government's past actions were not only a land grab from
indigenous peoples but left a lasting impact on the generations to
come.
These policies have led to many Tribal communities losing access to
sacred sites, traditional foods, medicine, and resources, and they have
led to intergenerational trauma.
As Members of Congress, we have an obligation to uphold the trust and
treaty responsibility. While we have legislation such as the Native
American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act and the National
Historic Preservation Act, they are not implemented to the full degree
of their intent.
BLM's final rule is an opportunity to strengthen existing protections
for Tribal sacred sites and cultural resources.
We must ensure that all legislation passed through this Chamber
strengthens Tribal sovereignty and cultural preservation.
For this reason, at the appropriate time, I will offer a motion to
recommit this bill back to committee. If the House rules permitted, I
would have offered the motion with an important amendment to this bill.
My amendment would simply ensure that Tribal sacred sites and
cultural resources would not be adversely impacted before the enactment
of the legislation.
I hope my colleagues agree that we should ensure all legislation
passed does not further contribute to cultural loss and destruction of
sacred sites.
Instead, the legislation we pass should bring together Federal land
managers and Tribal nations to develop land management policies that
integrate traditional ecological knowledge and protections for sacred
sites and cultural resources when proposed projects could impact Tribal
nations and their citizens.
I ask unanimous consent to include in the Record the text of this
amendment immediately prior to the motion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentlewoman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I hope my colleagues will join me in
voting for the motion to recommit.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I would just simply add, and then I know we will continue with this
debate, but echoing the sentiments of my colleague from California,
there have been repeated, in my view, misstatements about the full
ambit of the BLM rule.
To be crystal clear, this is from the executive summary of the rule,
it says: ``To support efforts to protect and restore public lands, the
proposed rule clarifies that conservation is a use on par with other
uses of the public lands under FLPMA's multiple-use and sustained-yield
framework.''
This is later in the same summary: ``The rule does not prioritize
conservation above other uses. Instead, it provides for considering
and, where appropriate, implementing or authorizing conservation. . .
.'' on an equal footing with other uses consistent with the plain
language of FLPMA. That is from the rule. Context matters, and I think
it is an important clarification.
Lastly, I would say, Mr. Speaker, there was some commentary with
respect to the full spectrum of engagement by the BLM with citizens
across the country as it was promulgating this rule and reference was
made to the locations where these forums were held.
I trust that the chairman, my good friend from Arkansas, has been to
the communities that he listed--I certainly have--to Reno, to
Albuquerque, and to Denver, and I can tell him that every one of those
municipalities is nestled within 10, 15, 20, 25 miles of extensive
lands that are managed both by the BLM and the Forest Service. How do I
know? Because I live in Colorado, and I happen to represent many acres
of land managed by the BLM.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
As my colleague, Mr. Bentz, read from the Federal Register and then
my friend from Colorado read from the rule, the summary of the rule, I
thought what would be more intellectually honest is if that summary
said the proposed law because this goes way beyond a rule.
I also thought, who wrote this? And the answer is: I don't know. It
is some nondescript bureaucrat over at the administration that wrote
this law.
He is rewriting law, and as Congress, we have to stand up to the
administration and say: Congress writes the laws, the administration
enforces the law, and we have to put a stop to this administrative
state that writes laws that have just as much effect as if Congress had
passed a law.
If Congress wanted to add conservation, restoration, or mitigation to
multiple use, then Congress should do that.
Right now, the law says: The multiple use is domestic livestock
grazing, fish and wildlife development utilization, mineral exploration
and production, rights-of-way, outdoor recreation, and timber
production.
That is the law, and it is time that we put a stop to bureaucrats
writing laws that are not held responsible by anybody.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from Arizona
(Mr. Gosar), the chair of the Oversight and Investigations
Subcommittee.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3397, the
WEST Act offered by the gentleman from Utah (Mr. Curtis).
Only Congress has the authority over lands and territories in the
United States and we have already spoken out on the BLM 2.0 rule that
mimics, and we have defeated it.
Unfortunately, the Bureau of Land Management continues to sidestep
congressional authority and has finalized a new rule to further
restrict Federal lands for multiple use, including outdoor recreation,
ranching, mineral development, and energy production.
Since his first day in office, Joe Biden has abused his authority to
add large swaths of acreage to the Federal estate, ignoring the
concerns of local communities and stakeholders, even to the point that
last year, they were caught trying to amortize our public lands on the
New York Stock Exchange.
Arizonans don't want another rule that blocks access to public lands.
This new rule represents the latest rush to lock the gates on Federal
lands by the Biden administration and directly threatens every aspect
of American life.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the WEST Act.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the distinguished
gentlewoman from Colorado (Ms. DeGette).
Ms. DeGETTE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to this bill.
Our Nation is home to some of the most beautiful landscapes in the
world. These public lands promote biodiversity, they support local
economies through tourism and recreational opportunities, and really,
they truly showcase what we mean when we sing ``America the
Beautiful.''
I have been working my entire time in Congress to pass meaningful
legislation that would conserve public lands in Colorado and beyond.
My home State of Colorado has more than 8.3 million acres of public
lands, and the entire West has tens of millions of acres more.
Enjoying these public lands is intrinsic to the cultural idea of the
American West and protecting them helps communities who are powered by
outdoor recreation tourism.
These public lands are also vital in mitigating the impact of climate
change and in improving the health of our planet.
Restoring and protecting ecosystems throughout the land supports the
biodiversity of plants and animals, and it leads to a healthier balance
for all of those who rely on these protections.
{time}  1615
Last year, along with Senator Martin Heinrich from New Mexico and
Congressman Jared Huffman from California, I called on the Department
of the Interior to finalize the Conservation and Landscape Health rule,
because BLM-managed lands are often overlooked in conversations about
addressing biodiversity and climate change, even though these areas are
some of the most unique and special public areas that we have
throughout this country.
I was excited when the Biden administration finally announced the
rule earlier this month because I knew it
[[Page H2747]]
would build on the administration's work to protect States like mine
and to support a healthier and cleaner environment for all.
The rule is a major victory for preserving and protecting those
landscapes and enhances our ability to ensure that future generations
can enjoy them for years to come.
Just last week, I met in Denver--which by the way is just within a
few miles of many of these lands that will be protected--with the
Bureau of Land Management Colorado State Director Doug Vilsack, to
discuss the importance of this rule, BLM's work in Colorado, and how we
can protect additional lands throughout our country.
Congressman Neguse's and my home State of Colorado is ground zero for
the important work that BLM is doing, and I support their efforts here
in Congress because I know defending public lands is good public
policy. Attacking our hardworking agency is not.
The bill we are considering today is a waste of our time, and it only
serves one purpose: To undermine the important public land goals of the
Biden administration.
By gutting this rule, Congressional Republicans would open the
beautiful lands for exploitation and would prevent any administration
from implementing any other rule that would further protect public
lands. They are putting the mining and drilling lobby over the American
people, millions of whom enjoy these lands every day.
This bill would also harm the local communities whose lifeblood is
these important public lands. Western States, who are home to the
overwhelming majority of BLM-managed lands, would be significantly
impacted, and not in a good way, by this bill. These efforts are
misguided, and they further reinforce that the majority is not focused
on the issues that matter to our constituents.
I will continue to work to protect public lands, and I urge my
colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the motion to recommit and ``no'' on this
bill.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Idaho (Mr. Fulcher).
Mr. FULCHER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend from Arkansas for his
work on this issue and also to the gentleman from Utah for sponsoring
the legislation.
The Bureau of Land Management's recently finalized Public Lands Rule
would fundamentally destroy the multiple-use land management policy
Americans have relied on for decades.
I want to reinforce something my friend from Arkansas pointed out
earlier. This is an administrative rule. This is not congressional
action, yet it has the same force and effect of law. This is a rule BLM
has put forth.
This policy is not just an addition of unnecessary bureaucratic red
tape. It would effectively lock up 1 out of every 10 acres of land in
the United States and thereby shatter the way of life for many families
and businesses across the West.
In my home State of Idaho, citizens have enjoyed the vast natural
resources the State has had to offer for decades. Considering that BLM
is responsible for managing about 12 million acres of Federal land in
our State, this rule change will have drastic impact on the future of
recreation, grazing, and natural resource production.
Now, as a fourth generation Idahoan, I am a proud supporter of the
WEST Act as it defends the way of life for Americans across the West
and empowers local voices.
By protecting the land used to feed and fuel our country, H.R. 3397
would safeguard some $201 billion in economic output and protect
783,000 jobs in rural communities.
On a related note, thanks to this administration's open-border
policy, our national security has pretty much been obliterated. That
makes our enemies happy, especially considering that we are also
dependent on those same enemies for our natural resources. This
legislation actually reduces our reliance on foreign adversaries by
maintaining domestic access to energy and mineral resources across the
West, which is so important.
The WEST Act will protect public land management as we know it and
safeguard the future of our Nation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge passage.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Montana (Mr. Rosendale).
Mr. ROSENDALE. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman Westerman and
Congressman Curtis for leading the charge on stopping this disastrous
Biden administration rule.
I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the WEST Act. This
legislation will prohibit the BLM's Conservation and Landscape Health
rule from going into effect.
Our past speaker just described very well the difference between rule
and law. The BLM-proposed rule will lock up large swaths of public land
across the country for Federal conservation leases that would limit
recreational activities, timber production, animal grazing, and
important energy development on public land. The rule is
unconstitutional, it is unpopular, and it will devastate rural
communities.
Article I, Section 1, of the United States Constitution makes it
clear that Congress writes the law, not the executive branch. In 1934
and 1976, Congress passed the Taylor Grazing Act and the Federal Land
Policy Management Act. Both require a multiple use policy on public
lands. This rule is unconstitutional because it circumvents both laws
Congress passed to enforce an executive branch policy.
When collecting limited public input on this rule over a limited 75-
day period, the BLM only allowed five public forums in exclusively
urban city centers. This deliberate dodging of stakeholders whose land
they are attempting to commandeer shows how little this administration
cares about their scathing disapproval in rural America.
Lastly, this move will irreparably impede sustainable and productive
grazing practices in Montana and devastate rural communities throughout
the country by requiring ranchers to compete with coastal corporations
for the limited number of available leases.
I am sick and tired of the American farmer, who creates food
security, being trampled by radical environmentalists who think their
soy burgers magically appear on grocery store shelves.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I would just simply say, again, there have been a number of
misstatements with respect to the constitutionality and the statutory
authority of this particular rule that has been promulgated by the BLM.
It is clearly constitutional. It is consistent with the statutory
authority that Congress has ultimately conveyed to the BLM via FLPMA.
You don't have to take my word for it. You can read the statute.
Section 302 very clearly states that the agency has the authority to
ultimately ensure multiple use by ``the management of the public lands
and their various resource values so that they are utilized in the
combination that will best meet the present and future needs of the
American people.''
Now, that phrase arguably could be nebulous to some. Well, the good
news is that Congress did, in fact, clarify what those present and
future needs of the American people happen to be. Again, I will quote
from the statute: ``The use of some land for less than all of the
resources; a combination of balanced and diverse resource uses that
takes into account the long-term needs of future generations for
renewable and nonrenewable resources, including, but not limited to,
recreation, range, timber, minerals, watershed, wildlife and fish, and
natural, scenic, scientific and historical values; and harmonious and
coordinated management of the . . . productivity of the land and the
quality of the environment with consideration being given to the
relative values of the resources and not necessarily to the combination
of uses that will give the greatest economic return or the greatest
unit output.''
That is the statute. You have the statutory authority supporting a
rule that by its plain language simply puts conservation on par with
other uses. This is not complicated.
The American people support this rule. Hunters and anglers support
this rule. Recreationists support this rule. Constituents in Colorado
and States across the West support this rule, and so should the
Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
[[Page H2748]]
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Utah (Ms. Maloy).
Ms. MALOY. Mr. Speaker, I agree with everything my colleagues have
said about this rule violating the intent of the Federal Land Policy
and Management Act, FLPMA, of 1976. I intended to spend most of my time
talking about that, but it was pretty well covered.
This is an inappropriate use of an administrative action to change
the intent of a legislative action. As a Member of Congress, I rise to
support everything they have said about why that is wrong.
I also want to talk about what role BLM lands play in Utah. I
represent Utah, and so does   John Curtis, my colleague, who introduced
this bill.
The reason this is so important for those of us in Utah is that the
Federal Government manages most of the land in our State. There are
counties in my district that are more than 90 percent managed by the
Federal Government. A lot of that is BLM land. We have a lot of
experience with multiple use, with grazing, logging, ranching,
recreation, fishing, all the things we just talked about, coexisting in
the same BLM tracts in Utah.
The reason this rule is deeply unpopular in my State is that it comes
in and makes one use trump all of the other uses on what should be
multiple-use land managed for sustained yield.
The role that BLM lands play in our economy and our culture cannot be
overstated. In some of the counties I represent, the majority of
families get at least part of their livelihood from grazing on public
land. If those livelihoods go away, it will have a big impact on our
economy. It also has a big impact on our lifestyle, our culture.
That is why changes like this should be made by Congress. They should
be debated by people who represent the people in Utah or in other
western States who are facing the same drastic cultural livelihood
changes from this kind of rule, instead of this coming from an
administration where it is written by bureaucrats who, like the
chairman, I can't identify with.
I don't know who wrote the rule. I don't know what input they took
from people in my district, but I know that I hear from people in my
district, and I represent them.
Mr. Speaker, I ask all of my colleagues to support this bill.
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time for
closing.
Mr. Speaker, I have participated in a lot of debates during my time
in Congress. This has got to be one of the most confounding for me,
because repeatedly, unfortunately, I have colleagues, friends on the
other side of the aisle, making statements about what this rule does
when the plain language of the rule says the exact opposite.
There are folks here in the gallery, I suspect, who are just as
confused as I am. One need look no further than the plain language of
the rule. The rule says that it is putting conservation on par with
these other uses. Grazing is allowed under the rule. Oil and
gas development is allowed under the rule. Conservation is allowed
under the rule.
If my colleagues don't want conservation considered by the BLM with
respect to how these lands are managed, which is clearly what they
believe, then they should just say so.
{time}  1630
They should just be candid with the American people that they don't
think these lands should be managed with conservation in mind at all. I
disagree with that view, and the American people disagree with that
view, but that is an intellectually honest position.
Be that as it may, don't mischaracterize the rule that the agency
ultimately promulgated because the American people can see it for
themselves. They can read the same plain language that I have read
repeatedly on the House floor over the course of the last hour of
debate.
Mr. Speaker, Congress charged the Bureau of Land Management with
seeking balance statutorily. That is the word we used in the statute
giving BLM its authority: ``so that they are utilized in a combination
that will best meet the present and future needs of the American
people.'' That is what the Biden administration has done with respect
to the development of this rule.
When we had the hearing on this bill in the Natural Resources
Committee, a constituent of mine testified in support of the bill.
Eagle County Commissioner Kathy Chandler-Henry said that she made the
trip to Washington to be here to support this particular rule.
I think her testimony said it best, so I will quote it here: ``I
support the BLM's proposed public lands rule. It will empower the
agency to deliver on its multiple-use mandate by placing conservation
values on equal footing with other uses on our public lands.''
That is it. People in Colorado, in my State, in my district, and
throughout the West rely on our public lands for a wide variety of uses
and benefits.
I speak with some authority on this particular subject because I
represent a congressional district that is larger than eight States in
the Union. That includes over 40 percent of it being public lands
managed by the BLM and the Forest Service. When I talk about the need
to prioritize resilience and balance, I speak about it on behalf of
those communities that I am so honored to represent.
I appreciate the dialogue that we have had with my colleague from
Utah and, of course, with my friend, the chairman from Arkansas, but I
respectfully disagree with respect to this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I hope that perhaps my colleagues will see the light and
vote against H.R. 3397. I certainly will be. I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Members are reminded to avoid making
reference to occupants of the gallery.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, we really must pass Representative Curtis' WEST Act.
This burdensome and unnecessary law that is being disguised as a rule
is not only a threat to the West, but it is also a threat to our
national security, to American energy dominance, to our food security,
to the environment, and to the separation of powers that are
established in our Constitution.
Passing the WEST Act and withdrawing this rule will restore Congress'
intent over the multiple uses of BLM land and protect the over 700,000
jobs across the West that rely on access to our public lands.
We can't allow the Biden administration to singlehandedly upend 50
years of congressionally mandated land use policies to the whim of
environmental extremists and coastal elites. We can't allow an
unelected, unaccountable, and unnamed bureaucrat to write law.
I thank Representative Curtis for his strong leadership on this
issue. I know that he has heard many concerns about the rule from his
constituents, including as recently as last week at a Federal Lands
Subcommittee hearing in southern Utah.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Ellzey). Pursuant to House Resolution
1173, the previous question is ordered on the bill, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the engrossment and third
reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was
read the third time.
Motion to Recommit
Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, I have a motion to recommit at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Clerk will report the motion to
recommit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Ms. Kamlager-Dove of California moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 3397 to the Committee on Natural Resources.
The material previously referred to by Ms. Kamlager-Dove is as
follows:
Ms. Kamlager-Dove moves to recommit the bill H.R. 3397 to
the Committee on Natural Resources with instructions to
report the same back to the House forthwith, with the
following amendment:
Add at the end the following:
SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, section 2
of this Act shall not take effect until the Secretaries
determine, in consultation with Tribes, that section 2 of
this Act will not have an adverse impact on Tribal cultural
or sacred sites.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XIX, the
previous question is ordered on the motion to recommit.
[[Page H2749]]
The question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Ms. KAMLAGER-DOVE. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on the motion to recommit will be followed by 5-minute
votes on:
Passage of H.R. 3397, if ordered;
The motion to recommit H.R. 615;
Passage of H.R. 615, if ordered;
The motion to recommit H.R. 764;
Passage of H.R. 764, if ordered;
The motion to recommit H.R. 3195; and
Passage of H.R. 3195, if ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 204,
nays 210, not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 164]
YEAS--204
Aguilar
Allred
Amo
Auchincloss
Balint
Barragan
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bowman
Boyle (PA)
Brown
Brownley
Budzinski
Bush
Caraveo
Carbajal
Cardenas
Carson
Carter (LA)
Cartwright
Casar
Case
Casten
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cherfilus-McCormick
Chu
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crockett
Crow
Cuellar
Davids (KS)
Davis (IL)
Davis (NC)
Dean (PA)
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Deluzio
DeSaulnier
Dingell
Doggett
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fletcher
Foster
Foushee
Frankel, Lois
Frost
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Garcia, Robert
Golden (ME)
Goldman (NY)
Gomez
Gonzalez, Vicente
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hoyle (OR)
Huffman
Ivey
Jackson (IL)
Jackson (NC)
Jackson Lee
Jacobs
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Kamlager-Dove
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim (NJ)
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lee (PA)
Leger Fernandez
Levin
Lieu
Lofgren
Lynch
Manning
Matsui
McBath
McClellan
McCollum
McGarvey
McGovern
Meeks
Menendez
Meng
Mfume
Moore (WI)
Morelle
Moskowitz
Moulton
Mrvan
Mullin
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Pelosi
Peltola
Perez
Peters
Pettersen
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Quigley
Ramirez
Raskin
Ross
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Salinas
Sanchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Scholten
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell
Sherman
Sherrill
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Sorensen
Soto
Spanberger
Stansbury
Stanton
Stevens
Strickland
Suozzi
Swalwell
Takano
Thanedar
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tokuda
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres (NY)
Trahan
Underwood
Vargas
Vasquez
Veasey
Velazquez
Wasserman Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Williams (GA)
Wilson (FL)
NAYS--210
Aderholt
Alford
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bean (FL)
Bentz
Bergman
Bice
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Boebert
Bost
Brecheen
Buchanan
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Burlison
Calvert
Cammack
Carey
Carl
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chavez-DeRemer
Ciscomani
Cline
Cloud
Clyde
Collins
Comer
Crane
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
D'Esposito
Davidson
De La Cruz
DesJarlais
Donalds
Duarte
Duncan
Dunn (FL)
Edwards
Ellzey
Emmer
Estes
Ezell
Fallon
Feenstra
Ferguson
Finstad
Fischbach
Fitzgerald
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flood
Foxx
Franklin, Scott
Fry
Fulcher
Gaetz
Garbarino
Garcia, Mike
Gimenez
Gonzales, Tony
Good (VA)
Gooden (TX)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Greene (GA)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hageman
Harris
Harshbarger
Hern
Higgins (LA)
Hill
Hinson
Houchin
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunt
Issa
Jackson (TX)
James
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kean (NJ)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kiggans (VA)
Kiley
Kim (CA)
Kustoff
LaHood
LaLota
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
LaTurner
Lawler
Lee (FL)
Lesko
Letlow
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luna
Luttrell
Mace
Malliotakis
Maloy
Mann
Massie
Mast
McCaul
McClain
McClintock
McCormick
McHenry
Meuser
Miller (IL)
Miller (OH)
Miller (WV)
Miller-Meeks
Mills
Molinaro
Moolenaar
Mooney
Moore (AL)
Moore (UT)
Moran
Newhouse
Norman
Nunn (IA)
Obernolte
Ogles
Owens
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Pfluger
Posey
Reschenthaler
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose
Rosendale
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Salazar
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Self
Sessions
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spartz
Stauber
Steel
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Strong
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Tiffany
Timmons
Turner
Valadao
Van Drew
Van Duyne
Van Orden
Wagner
Walberg
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams (NY)
Williams (TX)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yakym
Zinke
NOT VOTING--15
Adams
Arrington
Blumenauer
Cole
Diaz-Balart
Grijalva
Landsman
Langworthy
Magaziner
Murphy
Nehls
Nickel
Smith (NE)
Sykes
Trone
{time}  1704
Messrs. GOODEN of Texas, MOORE of Alabama, BARR, FITZPATRICK, Mrs.
CAMMACK, Messrs. COMER, NEWHOUSE, and LUCAS changed their vote from
``yea'' to ``nay.''
Mr. PETERS, Ms. MANNING, Mr. TORRES of New York, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Messrs. DOGGETT, MORELLE, Ms. LEGER FERNANDEZ, and Mr. AGUILAR changed
their vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.''
So the motion to recommit was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. LANDSMAN. Mr. Speaker, had I been present, I would have voted YEA
on Roll Call No. 164.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Recorded Vote
Mr. FULCHER. Mr. Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This will be a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 212,
noes 202, not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 165]
AYES--212
Aderholt
Alford
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bean (FL)
Bentz
Bergman
Bice
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Boebert
Bost
Brecheen
Buchanan
Bucshon
Burchett
Burgess
Burlison
Calvert
Cammack
Carey
Carl
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chavez-DeRemer
Ciscomani
Cline
Cloud
Clyde
Collins
Comer
Crane
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Curtis
D'Esposito
Davidson
De La Cruz
DesJarlais
Donalds
Duarte
Duncan
Dunn (FL)
Edwards
Ellzey
Emmer
Estes
Ezell
Fallon
Feenstra
Ferguson
Finstad
Fischbach
Fitzgerald
Fleischmann
Flood
Foxx
Franklin, Scott
Fry
Fulcher
Gaetz
Garbarino
Garcia, Mike
Gimenez
Golden (ME)
Gonzales, Tony
Good (VA)
Gooden (TX)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Greene (GA)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hageman
Harris
Harshbarger
Hern
Higgins (LA)
Hill
Hinson
Houchin
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunt
Issa
Jackson (TX)
James
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kean (NJ)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kiggans (VA)
Kiley
Kim (CA)
Kustoff
LaHood
LaLota
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
LaTurner
Lawler
Lee (FL)
Lesko
Letlow
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luna
Luttrell
Mace
Malliotakis
Maloy
Mann
Massie
Mast
McCaul
McClain
McClintock
McCormick
McHenry
Meuser
Miller (IL)
Miller (OH)
Miller (WV)
Miller-Meeks
Mills
Molinaro
Moolenaar
Mooney
Moore (AL)
Moore (UT)
Moran
Newhouse
Norman
Nunn (IA)
Obernolte
Ogles
Owens
Palmer
Pence
Perez
Perry
Pfluger
Posey
Reschenthaler
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose
Rosendale
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Salazar
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Self
Sessions
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spartz
Stauber
Steel
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Strong
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Tiffany
Timmons
Turner
Valadao
[[Page H2750]]
Van Drew
Van Duyne
Van Orden
Wagner
Walberg
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams (NY)
Williams (TX)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yakym
Zinke
NOES--202
Aguilar
Allred
Amo
Auchincloss
Balint
Barragan
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bowman
Boyle (PA)
Brown
Brownley
Budzinski
Bush
Caraveo
Carbajal
Cardenas
Carson
Carter (LA)
Cartwright
Casar
Case
Casten
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cherfilus-McCormick
Chu
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crockett
Crow
Davids (KS)
Davis (IL)
Davis (NC)
Dean (PA)
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Deluzio
DeSaulnier
Dingell
Doggett
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Foushee
Frankel, Lois
Frost
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcia (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Garcia, Robert
Goldman (NY)
Gomez
Gonzalez, Vicente
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hoyle (OR)
Huffman
Ivey
Jackson (IL)
Jackson (NC)
Jacobs
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Kamlager-Dove
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim (NJ)
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster
Landsman
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lee (PA)
Leger Fernandez
Levin
Lieu
Lofgren
Lynch
Manning
Matsui
McBath
McClellan
McCollum
McGarvey
McGovern
Meeks
Menendez
Meng
Mfume
Moore (WI)
Morelle
Moskowitz
Moulton
Mrvan
Mullin
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Pelosi
Peltola
Peters
Pettersen
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Quigley
Ramirez
Raskin
Ross
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Salinas
Sanchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Scholten
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell
Sherman
Sherrill
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Sorensen
Soto
Spanberger
Stansbury
Stanton
Stevens
Strickland
Suozzi
Swalwell
Takano
Thanedar
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tokuda
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres (NY)
Trahan
Underwood
Vargas
Vasquez
Veasey
Velazquez
Wasserman Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Williams (GA)
Wilson (FL)
NOT VOTING--15
Adams
Arrington
Blumenauer
Cole
Diaz-Balart
Grijalva
Jackson Lee
Langworthy
Magaziner
Murphy
Nehls
Nickel
Smith (NE)
Sykes
Trone
Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during the vote). There are 2 minutes
remaining.
{time}  1710
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
____________________