it is a privilege to be here with my friend, governor abbott, and to serve in the same senate seat first held by sam houston. sam houston believed that what is good for texas is good for america and is still right today. if the last few years could tell us anything, it is that the pro-growth policies that have made texas so successful are the envy, not only of the country, but the envy of the world. texas continues to lead the way and it would not happen without the courage of two great leaders, my friends, governor greg out there, and lieutenant governor dan gadget. with their hands on the wheel, texas will continue to lead the nation in practically every job category there is. so let us give another round of applause, the governor abbott and lieutenant governor dan patrick. i cannot think of a time when i was more proud to be a texan than in the days after hurricane harvey. that storm did not just devastate communities up and down the coast. it tested our resolve. but texans, as we always do, responded to the challenge. the days following hurricane harvey reminded me of a phrase that i heard years ago that being a texan does not describe where you are from, it describes who your family is. over the last few years, texans have begun to heal and rebuild over the last year, but the job is not finished, which is why ted cruz and i are here to say houston, we have your back. now both ted and i work in a forward operating base in hostile territory known as washington, and dc. but i am proud to serve and to share a foxhole with a happy warrior. in the last two years, congress has been among the busiest and most successful i have seen in my time in the senate. and it starts at the top. so please join me in saying thank you to president donald trump for his leadership. yeah, we have had a pretty good team. donald trump is president and republican majorities in the house and the senate. in the senate, we have confirmed 84 federal judges, including eight right here in texas. and oh yeah, you might have noticed we have confirmed two supreme court justices. including justice brett kavanaugh. with the president's help and ted's help, we have reformed our tax code for the first time in 31 years. we have repealed job-killing regulations enacted by the obama administration. we are rebuilding our military and reforming veterans' health care. we have gotten help for victims of human trafficking and folks suffering from the opioid addiction. and with ted's help and the entire texas delegation, we have passed three separate disaster relief packages, totaling $147 billion for hurricane harvey and other natural disasters. but i think we are just getting started. but we cannot keep this going if we surrender to chuck schumer and nancy pelosi. my friends, make no doubt about it. texas is the firewall in this midterm election. unless you want crushing new taxes, vote for ted cruz. unless you want bernie sanders style socialized medicine. vote for ted. if you think that the texas and the country should not lead from behind, vote for ted. unless you want higher gas prices, less jobs, and more regulations, vote for ted cruz for the united states senate. just imagine the nightmare of the next two years if nancy pelosi and chuck schumer spend every day trying to undermine everything we have built together these last two years and try to impeach president trump instead of working to keep america great. imagine a country that lurches left with job killing california style mandates instead of the texas model of less government and more freedom. ted and i stand shoulder to shoulder every day and fight in washington for 28 million texans and we are proud to do it. from the medical center to nasa to the port and beyond, there is no stronger advocate for houston than ted cruz. he is as tough as texas and the choice two weeks from now could not be more clear. i need ted cruz back in the senate. texas needs ted cruz back in the senate and america needs a congress that will work with president trump to build on the progress that we have made so far. may god bless you, may god bless the great state of texas, and may god continue to bless the united states of america. all right, you know how...