[congressional record volume 170, number 12 (tuesday, january 23, 2024)] [senate] [pages s208-s209] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] border security mr. durbin. mr. president, i would like to turn briefly to another urgent topic. we must restore order at our southern border and enforce our immigration laws in a fair and humane way. that is why the senate has been engaged in bipartisan talks on a path forward for weeks. the republican governor of texas takes a much different view. he has implemented cruel--even deadly--and ineffective immigration policies that sow chaos, risk lives, and prevent federal border officials from doing their jobs. last week, a woman and two children tragically died in the rio grande river while mexican authorities rescued other migrants in distress. the u.s. border patrol could not reach these migrants in need because the texas national guard actively blocked access to the rio grande river. this is just the latest tragedy resulting from governor abbott's policies. as part of its so-called operation lone star, texas has strung razor wire along the border which has seriously injured migrants, and it has dropped migrant children off at truck stops in illinois in subzero temperatures. we warned him. the governor of illinois warned governor abbott of texas that if you haphazardly drop these migrants off in chicago at this time of year, terrible things can occur. a few weeks ago, a little boy died. god knows who others were in danger because of the governor of texas and his strategy. texas passed a new law that makes it a state crime to cross the border without inspection and recently began arresting immigrants who crossed the border, placing them into state custody. governor abbott defends these policies, even though there is zero evidence they deter migrants from crossing the border. we must discourage migrants from risking their lives by approaching the united states between ports of entry, but we cannot stand by while governor abbott increases the likelihood of injury or death. despite their desperation to reach safety, most migrants wish to enter the united states lawfully. many wait months at our border for appointments to make asylum claims. in defending his policies, the governor of texas recently bragged: [t]he only thing that we are not doing is we are not shooting people who come across the border, because of course the biden administration would charge us with murder. this is a direct quote from governor abbott. his actions are not only dangerous and cruel, they are unconstitutional. under our constitution, states do not have the right to pass their own laws preempting federal laws on immigration. just yesterday, the supreme court ruled in favor of the federal government, allowing border patrol agents to cut through or remove razor wire that the governor of texas installed on the border. as former justice anthony kennedy wrote in his opinion in arizona v. united states, which found parts of arizona's anti-immigration law unconstitutional: [t]he history of the united states is in part made of the stories, talents, and lasting contributions of those who crossed oceans and deserts to come here. with that sentiment in mind, congress must do its job and pass immigration laws that honor our history as a nation of immigrants and provide the critical resources necessary to address the challenges at our border. i guess i pretty well know, as chairman of the senate judiciary committee in favor of immigration--legal immigration--to this country, i believe immigration is a critical element of who we are and what we will become. it is part of our past, and it should be part of our future. my mother was an immigrant to this country, and i have never forgotten it. i am lucky to be standing here today as a u.s. senator, because her parents had the courage to come to a country where they did not speak the language in the hopes of a better life for her and her children. one of her children is now standing in the u.s. senate. i believe that is part of america's history, but there are certain elements which we must acknowledge. no. 1, the united states cannot absorb all of the people who want to come to this country at this moment. we have to have an orderly process that makes sense not only for the migrants but that also makes sense for america, first and foremost. we have to be cognizant and sensitive to our nation's safety and security. that is no. 1. we should never knowingly allow anyone to come to this country who would cause us harm. secondly, we have to make sure that those who come will add to america, and i believe most will. if given a chance, they will become part of our economy, even starting at the lowest levels and working their way up. it is the story of immigration in america. in addition to that, we need to work with other countries to regulate the flow of refugees. the refugee crisis in the world today is the worst it has ever been, and we are seeing it evidenced in the fact that those who present themselves at our southern border are often from places like china and asia and africa, and they find their way to the mexican border with the united states in the hopes of a future. we need an orderly process. we also need to make sure that we have the legal authorization of people to come to this country to work. i cannot tell you how many people in illinois have come to me and said: we are desperate for workers. americans will not fill these jobs, and we need people who will. all the way up from farming to industry, that is the story, and that is the reality. [[page s209]] what we need to do is come to an agreement that is sensible here, a bipartisan agreement, and do it quickly. the numbers approaching our border are so overwhelming, we have no choice but to do that. i want to work on a bipartisan basis with those in good faith and good will who will recognize that immigration is not only our history but our future, but it must be in an orderly fashion. that is what i am looking for, and i think america is as well. i yield the floor. i suggest the absence of a quorum. the acting president pro tempore. the clerk will call the roll. the senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll. mr. thune. mr. president, i ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. the acting president pro tempore. without objection, it is so ordered. ____________________