[congressional record volume 170, number 13 (wednesday, january 24, 2024)] [senate] [page s235] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] vote on the austin nomination the presiding officer. under the previous order, the question is, will the senate advise and consent to the austin nomination? mr. durbin. i ask for the yeas and nays. the presiding officer. is there a sufficient second? there appears to be a sufficient second. the clerk will call the roll. the legislative clerk called the roll. (ms. rosen assumed the chair.) mr. durbin. i announce that the senator from arizona (mr. kelly) and the senator from vermont (mr. sanders) are necessarily absent. mr. thune. the following senator is necessarily absent: the senator from wyoming (mr. barrasso). the presiding officer (ms. baldwin). are there any other senators in the chamber desiring to vote? the result was announced--yeas 80, nays 17, as follows: [rollcall vote no. 20 ex.] yeas--80 baldwin bennet blumenthal booker boozman brown budd butler cantwell capito cardin carper casey cassidy collins coons cornyn cortez masto cotton cramer cruz daines duckworth durbin ernst fetterman fischer gillibrand graham grassley hassan heinrich hickenlooper hirono hyde-smith kaine kennedy king klobuchar lankford lee lujan lummis manchin markey mcconnell menendez merkley moran mullin murkowski murphy murray ossoff padilla peters reed ricketts romney rosen rounds rubio schatz schumer scott (sc) shaheen sinema smith stabenow tester tillis van hollen warner warnock warren welch whitehouse wicker wyden young nays--17 blackburn braun britt crapo hagerty hawley hoeven johnson marshall paul risch schmitt scott (fl) sullivan thune tuberville vance not voting--3 barrasso kelly sanders the nomination was confirmed. the presiding officer. under the previous order, the motion to reconsider is considered made and laid upon the table, and the president will be immediately notified of the senate's actions.