home newsroom press releases press releases filters 11.26.2025 u.s. senator katie britt, colleagues introduce bipartisan aviation safety bills washington, d.c. — u.s. senator katie britt (r-ala.) joined senators john hoeven (r-n.dak.), tammy duckworth (d-ill.), and several of their senate colleagues in introducing two bipartisan bills aimed at strengthening aviation safety and supporting our aviation workforce by fostering transparency surrounding... read more 11.25.2025 u.s. senators katie britt, mike lee, colleagues introduce legislation to codify automatic flight risk status for illegal criminal aliens washington, d.c. — u.s. senators katie britt (r-ala.), mike lee (r-utah), and several of their republican colleagues introduced the flight risk reduction act to prevent illegal alien criminal defendants from fleeing and failing to appear for trial. “when individuals commit certain crimes in... read more 11.20.2025 u.s. senators katie britt, amy klobuchar introduce adopt act to protect adoptive families washington, d.c. — u.s. senators katie britt (r-ala.) and amy klobuchar (d-minn.) introduced the bipartisan adoption deserves oversight, protection, and transparency (adopt) act. this comprehensive legislation protects adoptive families, children, and expectant mothers from exploitation by unlicensed adoption intermediaries and ensures that... read more 11.20.2025 u.s. senators katie britt, cory booker reintroduce bipartisan legislation to fund maternal care and mortality research washington, d.c. — u.s. senators katie britt (r-ala.) and cory booker (d-n.j.) today reintroduced the nih improve act, the senate companion to representative lauren underwood (d-ill.) and brian fitzpatrick’s (r-pa.) house bill, which would ensure consistent funding for research on maternal care and mortality.... read more 11.18.2025 u.s. senator katie britt releases statement following unanimous senate passage of epstein files bill washington, d.c. — u.s. senator katie britt (r-ala.) today released a statement following the senate unanimously passing h.r. 4405, the epstein files transparency act, which passed the u.s. house of representatives earlier today by a vote of 427-1. “i’m grateful to see... read more 11.18.2025 u.s. senator katie britt leads republican senate rules committee members in reintroducing legislation to help prevent noncitizens from voting in federal elections washington, d.c. – u.s. senator katie britt (r-ala.), a member of the senate committee on rules and administration, today led all republicans on the committee in reintroducing the citizen ballot protection act, the senate companion bill to legislation introduced in the u.s.... read more