no, no, that is not what i am supposed to be saying. i do not think. oh yeah, here we go. i directed pish perfect 2. thank you, in which the barnbellas went to the world acapella championships. so i know a thing or two about world affairs. but i still have a long way to go to catch hillary clinton. as our secretary of state, our nation's chief diplomat, she traveled to 112 countries and flew nearly a million miles. why does she take the job for the fancy title? no. for the nice office? no. for the frequent flyer miles? probably. i mean, she took the job because we needed someone to fight to make america and the world safe. someone tough and smart to sit on the other side of the table from russia, from china, from canada. hillary clinton used her office to bring new focus and attention to sex trafficking, human rights abuses, and the plight of women and girls all over the world. hillary clinton did not yell. she did not insult anyone. she went into the room with a clear and steady vision for the future and she got results. i am proud that she will be our next secretary of state. she is an american of tremendous statue who knows many of the world's leaders and who will clearly have the ability to advance our interests around the world. rockets continue to fire from gaza and massive explosions. rock, a gaza city. there is panic and fear in the streets of israel tonight. this as israeli war planes held at the gaza strip. when the fighting broke out between the israelis and the palestinians and gaza in 2012, we were very concerned. he dispatched secretary of state hillary clinton to the middle east. she got on the plane with a small group of people. no press, flew through the night. after intense shuttle diplomacy with israel, the palestinian authority, egypt, she did it. a ceasefire. the secretary really had steel in her spine and stood up and conflict stopped and a wider war was averted. i truly believe that when she sprinted to the region, it was her presence with the israelis and the egyptians, which i believe brought this ceasefire to fruition. i think one of the strengths that secretary clinton demonstrated, always, interactions, was that resolve, that firmness in decision-making, that clarity of the direction in which she wanted to go. climate change activists are increasingly angered by the failure to make progress. it was a conference on the verge of a nervous breakdown. it was a conference in meltdown. hope's for a global deal to cut greenhouse gas emissions are fading. the secretary and the president, they knew the only way to break the impasse was to find the actors that they needed to get into a room, particularly the chinese, and hammer out an agreement. at this point now we are in that we are deep into the afternoon of the very last day and we cannot find these people. i remember when we go up an escalator, we turn some corners and we find a fairly non-escript room, but you realize you found something big when it is basically surrounded by security. when we actually got there, it was very chaotic. i got scared of you. just like you guys got it. this is not joint meeting. my guys did not. we are really meeting. did the president and the secretary crash the meeting? did they push their way in? yeah, it was the only way to get real progress on climate change. a nuclear bomb, un atomic inspector, sayyirah, now has enough enriched uranium to make one. a nuclear iran, of course, is nearly unthinkable. iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad was defiant. secretary clinton went up to the hill and testified to congress. iran has left the international community little choice, but to impose greater costs and pressure in the face of its provocative steps. if you use the combination of the soft power of diplomacy with the hard power of the threat of the use of force or even use of force and sanctions, then that is smart power. but without the international community, also having tough sanctions against iran, there was no chance that iran would come to the table. so she had to go around the world twisting arms, getting every major economy on planet earth, on board. russia, along with china, is expected to back the sanctions. well, the agreement that was reached last year to prevent iran from developing a nuclear weapon would not have happened without the leverage that hillary clinton had so systematically built up during her tenure as secretary of state. i saw secretary clinton go to the furthest reaches earth to visit the victims of trafficking in persons, and she would circle her arms around them and offer them support and offer them love and compassion. secretaries of state do not normal do that. we hope to shine the white brightly on the scoping scale of modern slavery, so all governments can see where progress has been made and where more is needed. secretary clinton was the first secretary of state to recognize that human trafficking was happening not just overseas, but also right here at home. and the secretary herself stood at the podium holding this report saying this is a very important issue and one that is a priority. not only does she come passionate, but she is extremely hard and firm when it is time to reach the decision. hillary clinton has the experience, has the understanding, most importantly has the toughness necessary to make the kinds of decisions that this country needs to make if we are going to be a world leader.