and i refuse to be a part of the first generation in american history that will pass this country off to our kids in worse shape than we found it. and that is my place to all of you tonight. when i get to the united states senate in a matter of weeks, i am going to fight to make sure that these girls, your kids and your grandkids, have a country that they can be proud of too for the rest of their lives. my parents are here. my grandma is here. my mother-in-law is here, our family. they do so much to support us. we could not do, amanda and i, we could not do what we do in serving our country in this way without our family. and i want to thank all of my family behind me, all of my supporters, all of my friends who are with me tonight. this is an incredible honor. i do not take it lightly, but it is not possible without all of your support. so that truly, thank you from the bottom of my heart. i get the question all the time. what do you do on election day? and you know, it is sort of, it is an odd day for a political candidate. david keller, my great chief of staff, give it up for him. my great friend. he calls election day the dark side of the moon. it is a really eerie day. i mean, sort of all the, you know, really, i do not get as many phone calls. it is, people are kind of glued online. nobody really knows what to do on election day. it is a really odd day. so what, so i get the question, what do you do on election day? i read books. i think i went to starbucks three times today. i tried to tune it out. i see my friend, marlon stutzman, here. he is going to be a great congressman again for our district. and marlon, you know what i am talking about? it is a really weird day. election day is a really weird day because there is nothing else that we can do. we put it all on the line. we have worked hard. we kicked this campaign two years ago. we have been running for the united states senate. and there is really no, on election day, there is really nothing left for me. there is nothing else that i can do to change another vote or go out and get another vote. so you kind of tune out. i will tell you what i did today, though, steve. i went for a long walk. i am so proud of where i come from. i come from real america, small town, indiana, columbia city, indiana, the best hometown in america. i did not come from a rich family. i did not come from a powerful family. my dad is a retired factory worker. my mom is a former cook in a nursing home. we sort of grew up on the other side of the tracks. we did not come from a lot. and today i went for, i hear my mom laughing. today i went for a walk. i walked by the site where my old high school used to be. i was walking my dog, marshall, who most of the time walks me. we walked past where my high school used to be. i walked to a couple of different sites of homes where i grew up when i was born in a trailer park. i lived there for the first six years of my life. we moved to another house in columbia city. i walked by both of those places. i walked past cj's hot dog stand. my first job for four summers in a row. it was a great job that i was proud to do. and i walked into the trailer park where i was born. it is been the first four years of my life. then i walked the dog back home. there were a couple of things that came to mind. i promise steve would be brief. but the first thing that came to mind is i came from the best family in the world, the best community in the world. i had the best teachers in the world. i have the best support in the world. whitley county supported me when they elected me to the county council. my district supported me when i went to the state senate. you have all supported me in congress. i am blessed, very blessed and proud of where i came from. and i want all of you to know that, especially my mom and dad, that i am so proud of where i came from. and you have instilled in me the principles that is what this country is all about, a great country, a country where you can come from somewhere and end up something better. that is the american dream. the other thing that came to mind on my afternoon walk with marshall, i was walking through the trailer park and there were trump signs all over the trailer park. i walked by one trailer that was right across the lane from where we lived and there was a mom on the porch with two little boys that looked just like me and chad when we were that age playing in the lawn of the trailer park. and i thought, and i know marlon you sympathize with this, these are the people that we are fighting for. these are the people who are not just having a hard time making ends meet. they are getting further and further behind because of the policies of the radical left and what they have done to this country over the last four years. and we are not going to stand up for that anymore. we are going to do something about it. that is what tonight is all about. those families that i walked by today are sick and tired of seeing drugs flow into this country from a wide open border, killing americans, the leading cause of death is fentanyl, killing americans, my age, of military age because of the foolishness of the elites and the democrats who are running this country today. we are not going to stand up for it anymore. and that mom with her two little boys i know and i can imagine that she is sick and tired of politicians in washington who are selling this country out to other countries sending our jobs overseas to china and mexico and other countries. she wants her two boys to have a shot at the american dream. and that is what tonight is all about. this election is about fighting for this country. america is always worth fighting for. and that is what i am going to do for you in the united states senate. i do not take it lightly. this is an incredible honor. but tomorrow we roll up our sleeves and we get to work and it is my prayer and my hope that tonight we will send donald trump back to the white house the greatest president of my lifetime. and i will be a part of his backup crew to put america first and get this country back on track because of all of you. thank you from the bottom of my heart for giving me this opportunity. i will not let you down. god bless. and there is senator alleg jim banks, a republican in allen county tonight claiming victory after a convincing victory over valerie mccray, jim banks with 62 percent, valerie mccray with 34 percent. and during his victory speech tonight, he did call on marlon stutzman who is now succeeding him in the third district. and of course, jim banks ran for senate because mike braun was running for indiana governor and tonight the ap is named mike braun the winner of the indiana governor's race. absolutely.