coverage you can count on continues. this is news channel 15's first news weekend. next week 10 candidates are trying to become indians represented for the third district to help you get to know some of the people behind the campaign. we are doing a series of interviews called meet the candidates. you have been doing it all month long and this morning indiana state center jim banks is from the republican side. it is here to join us. thanks for coming in this morning. that is great to be here. so we have kind of been profiling people's families a little bit kind of staying away a little bit from the political side but talk about your family and we have seen some of their their images out there. well i am very blessed my wife amanda and i have three daughters six four and two. we live in columbia city which is my hometown. that is where i grew up as well so it is great to raise my family in my hometown and and we we have three little girls that we are proud of and it is great to see it is fun to see them on the tv commercials and and fortunately they take after their mother more than they take after me. sure how is that kind of change of perspective of doing things having the three little girls. that is what this is all about. that is this election is about them. it is about their generation and what type of america will they have for the future. so that is that is why i am ultimately why i am running for congress is to fight for their american dream which i believe is under attack today more than ever. will they grow up in the greatest country of the in the world like i was able to and achieve the american dream like i have been able to to live or will the will america be very different if we if we continue down the track that we are on today i believe that the america that they will inherit will not be as great as it is today. you spent a year in afghanistan we were just talking about as soon as you got off the plane it is kind of where your head was next. how is that transition to make from being over there now you are back here with your family how does that plane to things. well i i return home from afghanistan a year ago from last week and we kicked off the campaign on may 12th two weeks later so we have been working hard and here we are just three days away from election day so but i i learned many lessons while i was deployed and i am the only candidate running for a federal office in the entire country who knows what our troops face on the ground in theater in a combat zone it gives me a powerful perspective to go to congress and represent our troops to represent our veterans and specifically to represent my generation the post 9-11 generation of veterans and the unique issues that they face so i take that commitment very seriously to go to washington and serve serve our troops and serve our veterans as well as i can. sure i will kind of throw this one at you i am you know i am from northeast indiana i am from this area you are from this area what makes this place so special that you would like to represent. it is the people and as i campaign around the 12 counties that make up the third congressional district it is the it is the small communities the larger communities and the the people who step up and our leaders and those communities that want to make a difference and make make northeast indiana better than what it even already is and that is what that is what is humbling about this opportunity and humbling to serve as a state senator for the past six years to be a part of that to be a part of the leadership of this part of the state so it is it is definitely the people. sure and i will kind of wrap things up with the question how would you describe yourself in one word? i would use the word determined i am determined to make a difference i have dedicated my life to public service both in the military and in government as well as the state senator and our running for congress and i feel a burden to make a difference in this way so i am excited about the election about the opportunity to serve in a new way if i get the chance. sure well i appreciate you coming in kind of big weekend ahead of you as you get ready for the tuesday primary right? that is right thanks so much banks is on the republican ticket is opponents are liz brown, keptam, mark banger at dr. pam, galaway and kevin howell. these candidates are trying to fill marlon's dustman seat who is running for us senate he will be joined he joined us earlier this month todd young his opponent also joined us you can find all those interviews at wayne.com