mawapan si nyopol hindi po kasi pasar jeff, mas ba po po ang kaya pasar jeff. but anyways, para po sa mga first-time pun natin na mag-bemeat dito, i am lester, and warthak campus missionaries here, hit dito po sa victory, and we are here to honor god and make disciples. and mga papasinyo po, noo para ng hindi siya, ano yung good weather, it is a bed weather. the indy bad weather, it is bed weather. and anyways, si pasar jeff po wala po siyang ayon, it is because na palgul po siya from last night na nag-bil po kasi siya ng relationship with other people. and then segurong po mayyon na palgul siya sa hindi siya mga ako, ito, he should be here kaya lang nag-message po siya sa amenong. siya loypudito na apisityo si pasar jeff as our pastor. kamo na. alam yung, i always say this to people, kong siyinopu si pasar jeff did sa harap, ganondin puwu siya as kaibigan yung pagdatin puwu sa ufisina na namin, lagi ka mintawan ng tawadon. parang walaong sirio sa umsaban sa kanya, alam yung, hindi ko ngama, ano ang mga paraong, ito kong nalagi ka minda loa ng asawa ko, parang boring kaya sa bahain nila. parang meron tayong mga moments na parang tahimig sa bahain, lang kasi si our degrees ganondin puwu, ito lagam makalakwaito. and by the way, pagbiprich putayong ngayon regarding sa beyond our, our youth series, our campus series, ito puwu, ito, you believe in the next generation. kamo, ang nakitanya ng mong pukali na si josh na paagaling, josh, ay really believe in you, krabika, you will be parang masangat ka lang kong isa, kaya. but never wrong, you will be greater than we are right now. even in the next generation, we will be parang ngayon. yesterday, i celebrated our wedding anniversary. yesterday, okay, kaya si paasa jeff, wala pusha ng wedding naman, it is because birthday, kasi baipun ng birthday ni, ni our degrees ng wedding naman. so, kapan kawag daw wedding anniversary naman, birthday ng asawa niya, so, lalaval celebration. bisa ko nga makitiped makasaw sa mga nasa celebration, lalaval. hindi naman pwpu, kasi importatikin, kasi ako sa kaya. and na ang, we celebrate our six year wedding anniversary. nala lala ko po. and itapu yung asawa ko na si justin na paaganda po niya, no? so, bro, nga, kapan ka, pinapakilal ako siya lagi sa taawan, lagi siya na sa habisaka ng taawan, bro. you are so blessed. parang, okay. ako yung di-blas. salang blessed. bapod din naman ako, ang masamaayon tabas ng dila ng taawan ato. aran, naka para. i am really blessed with my wife. and, ngalabilang yung pagalaganya sa amen na at the same time, yung paggikere niya sa amen sa amen, sa amen ng mga naman. naman naman, also. as we celebrated our six year wedding anniversary, nalala ko lang ng first time, nang nagsama ka may yung first breakfast na amen na kaka to po. kasi ang tagal niya maglulupo, kaya ang tagalifis paglulupo, kasi sa abikong babe, kaya doing, okay. sao niya ang cooking breakfast, fatan tagal mo, eh, kasi, she was racing on a grew up in the states. so, ngayon, siya may american, siya ako pinoy na pinoy. hong ngayon, dahil ako klas yung nilulupu niya, isang american food, sa kaka filipino food. for the next, for the past two months, yung ginaagawanya, so ang tagal niya, aparang mayong, ang akin kanin, ang kaka baboy, kaya, takapas sa kanya po yung anong, yung tagito, potayito, yung mag-gina-mash potayito, mga ginaun po yung nilulupu niya, so, parang antagal niya, na na hiirapang, mga, because we have our preferences when it comes to food, pero, hindi po ang tagal, kasi sa o, perang mohanong mga nangayari sa amin, parang doble doble yung gasa-snama, so, parang hindi ka, we have this preferences, and many of us here, merang hindi po tayong preferences sa buhay, tamapobayon, yung preference sa life natin, yung maybe some of you, clothing preference, yung gusun niya, dina mo putayo, para yung damit dito, ang hiliig, at nang por, ma-diba, sa love life din po, meron din po tayong preference, when it comes to love life, hindi lang yung aas, kaya, basa mo kapakasawalan, yung nalang, okay nangayon, you have your own preferences. kung baga-parang, siya-murang mag-ganda-sya sa paningin mo, at goa pa-sya sa paningin mo, kaya mo siya-pinakas ala, kama-bayon, so para sa mga napot, mga single pa dito, like what paso jeff is always saying, kapit lang, baka mga mga mga mga nangaklasa-saint-locution. so, next sa mga-preference natin, yung aling yung poyong mga generational-generation preferences, yung mga classic, primilenial, millenial, post-millenial, yung mga titos in tita sa paniladita, diba? so kung baga-parang, i always hear this, our generation have the best song, galo mpoyong mga sinisabiinla. even sa amen, minisan na nababanggituyon sa asawakong, alamuyo yung anun natin, mag-mogandi mga kantan natin natin, daatik, kisay mga kantangayon. parang akorinaw, huli ko rin poyong sarili ko nag-gano, and our generation is so simple, tapos contento lang, diba? simpli lang, to contentos, nail-mails, nail-mail, mima post-office, ansayaslaya kayaanong, sumulat ng mga ganito-ganito, tapos, para may puso, e-mion email email, tapos purus pampa, diba? our generation is so, our generation today, purulang lang internet, wala ng ginawa, ating muna manyo mga generation here, this are the millenials, parang makasama sila sa isang lugar, pero para makayuholay naman sila, periklamatay na nga kalamo about the internet, ang question ko po, siinapunagaplay ng internet? siinapunagubay ng internet sa bay natin, tayo rin po, okay? so, kung pagaparang, tayo rin mampuyan, okay? so, we have our preferences, but you know what, there is nothing wrong with preferences. kasi, okay, puyan. ndi po maganda, pareparehutayo lahat, pareparehutay ng cura, pareparehutay ng gusto, diba? it is preferences are good, but sometimes preferences can lead us to curses. it is because, hindi mo to preference, amang iarasa, you are gonna say something about your mga hindi mo gusto. you are gonna say something about your mga hindi mo typ, hang, it is because of your preferences, your own preferences, at least to curses. and sometimes, even in our generation, in our current generation, in what is happening in our current generation, nga yon. sometimes, we say curses to this generation. like, halba, pagkana ka kare nig putay na mga teen-age pregnancy, diba? when we hear teen-age pregnancy, aga, naman yung mga anong aayon, yung mga buba, grabi, grabi yung mga chantangayon, grabi yung mga yung people ngayon. when we hear, ay yung generation struggling with homo sexuality, grabi yung mga antimdino mga baatapalang, grabi, lan taran, ha? genun minsan tayo, salita at mga iset, there is struggling with drug addiction, antimdino mga addict ngayon, ambabata. we have the 10, you see, something against them. and i, i heard this that the syndicates right now, are using the young generation to prevent it because i am not going to be able to do it. so, you see, i, over, i heard some of the news and at the same time, the people who were watching my youtube, when i was there, and my crime was 60 years old. grabi naman, 15, 14 years old, and i was watching comments and it seems like i was in a hurry. whenever i see the comments there, and you see, not just the government, not just the media, but at the same time, the media, the comments, the people who were watching juvenile delinquency, the criminal liability from 18 years old, they were doing 15 years old, to be able to do it. the kids, the students, the kids, and they were doing it. and that is it. so, you see, you see, you see, it is because these students, the kids, they do not have the right to do this, this generation, it is the worst generation, just, just, you put the mindset of it. those things are cursing to them. those things were, we are putting down the next generation. and let me tell you this, they found, they found a reason to do this. they found a reason, but you know what? as a church, that is not our only option. we are here to also pray for them. we are here to hold the rope for our next generation. and let us just look at the other side. let us just look at the other side. let us just look at the other side. this is the other side of the next generation. here in church, what are the values of our children? i really appreciate the church. i am here right now in front of you. i am a product of campus ministry. i was reached out in a campus. it is thanks to jante. there is no pag-asasabuhay. i am not, i am just a small. i am just a little bit, i am just a little bit, i am just a little bit, there is no hope. and yet, someone reached out to me. and i began to get a little bit, because god loves you. and it changed my life. i really appreciate this movement, this ministry, this church. really for reaching out to the next generation, having heart for the next generation. and my hope in prayer for all of us here is that we will get that same heart, the heart of god, to reach out to the lost people in our campuses as well. so that is why today we are going to talk about the blessing of the next generation. we are going to talk about blessing them. so believing in them, calling out the great destiny for them. that is why i want to invite each and every one of us to please stand as we read the word of god. can we all stand up please? in hebrews chapter 11 verses 20 to 21, by faith, i sought invoke future blessing on jacob and issa. by faith, jacob, when dying, bless each of the sons of joseph, bowing in worship over the head of his staff. by faith, we will be able to see this. in the name of god, we will be able to see the right mindset of our people and the right heart of our people. and lord, may he be pleased with our people. and we will see the next generation of our people. thank god for the youth of our people. we are lifting them up to you. and i pray that you will change our hearts. i pray that you will be blessed with the heart of this. we have a lot of people in our hearts. thank god, i bless them lord. i thank you for your word. may you anoint the preaching of your work out. in jesus name, amen. may you take your seat. actually, this is the hebrews chapter 11. when you look at hebrews 11, when you look at the bible, it is all about the whole faith. meaning, when you look at the bible, you see this. you see this. the bible says, this is the faith. david did this. now, these people are being commanded because of their faith. can you imagine isaac and jacob were commanded for their faith because of the next generation? that is why, because they are all in faith. and something that i hope and my prayer for all of us here is that the lord will say, when we see the light of your life, because you have the faith for the next generation. and you do not have to go to the world, you do not have to go to the world. now, two things that we should be remanded for the next generation. number one, is this. you only have two points. number one, bless the next generation. bless the next generation. says here, by faith, isaac and both future blessing on jacob. and so it came, this verse came from genesis 27, where the author of hebrews got this. okay? sabi pujan, when isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could kill himself in isaac, right? the one who was ordered to say, i am not, i am not saying that, because it is the one who was ordered to say, i am not saying that, right? sabi pujan, okay? divok, you are not saying that. see, isaac was old, and he was very good. when isaac was old, he was very good, he was a sacrifice. so, did i verse one, when isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see. he called eso, his older son, and he said to him, my son, and he answered, here i am, he said, behold, i am old. i do not know the day of my death, now then, take your weapons, your quiver, and your bow, and go out to the field and hunt game for me. can you imagine? you want to see the fire of the fire. okay? i know what the fire of the fire is. and prepare for me, delicious food, such as i love, and bring it to me, so that i may eat, that my soul may bless you before i die. actually, you can see that he bless me, that he is isaac, eso, immediately, because firstborn child, he is the firstborn son of him, but he is the one who blesses you. do not, if you are a little older, but what is the request of your child? he said, you should give him a hug, if you are still young, you are not going to be able to promise him. oh, i am not going to be able to promise him that i do not know. so, if you are still young, please, be patient like what you always do. okay? if you are still young, then i will tell you, dito alang wakalan ako ng mama tayo pero please, awana, awana, kais yung pagguluto sa aking, okay? no, you know what, despite of isaac's circumstances, he did not withhold to give his blessing to his firstborn child. kaya na mahi nga sa tanagit tinawag nya pa. he took time and effort para ko sa pitong anak nya para lang iblas. you know what, meansan para ng isip ko, ready naman siyang, ready naman nya sa bihin na ang takal ko ka yung pinagsilbyan, ang takal ko ka yung pinakain, pinag arel ko ko ka yung pero, kital naman, akunaman ng iblas nyo, akunaman matanda na ako ng ibegame mo naman sa aking but indeed, his attitude is always to bless. as yung sabi nya di ito, he took time, okay? to bless his son, right? so, let us continue the story, actually, yung story puyo nyan pagginan tinyo, puunaten. si jacob, ang isapun ng anak, okay? yung bunsu ng anak, kasi na o na si iso, ngayon si jacob na manyo sumunod. okay? si jacob, nare niya sa nana niya, kasi yung mamina, may ro silang favoritis, e me, okay? yung tatanya, preferens niya si iso. eto mamina na manya, preferens niya si jacob. so ng overhead ng mamina, yung pida ko usapan na na lwag. so si nabinyong ang kak jacob, jacob jacob, ay, jacob jacob, ay nang? okay? nare niya niya niya niya niya. kasi ko, ikaw maka ko ng bless niya. so ikaw. so ngayon, ay kasi nabinyong tatanya niya. kaya iso, sa kawin mo ngayon. ipaglutong mo, siya, tapos maglagig ka ng balbon. kaya kasi balbon niya si iso, yung nagagig ka ng mo ng confer. nang sa ganon, paginawang ka nya, panwari, ikaw si iso. kaya ba? so ngayon si jacob, ginowa niya yung sinabi sa kanya ng mamina. ilepita niya pinaglutunya. oh! tapos ka niya niya niya niisak. ngayon, saabinyo ikaw bata lagay na ko. opo, tungmukon yung howakan yung kaya na ko. yung brazo ko, oh, di ba? balbon. sabi na tatanya huli ka balbon. so... so ngayon, jacob, the civis father isa. the civis nyangayon. so isa, indeed, the civis nyangayon. so, billes niya, billes niya yung future ni jacob. okay. so, when iso discovered, paggating niya, iso, luto na yung paggain na. so pinuntaan nya ngayon, at saabinyo. daaggi. eh, to na yung nebrewas mo sa akin. talagang paulis na paulis. saka, kasi na gan paul. apo, supna-kui. sinan pa kanya sa yung? ampito palang ko. kaya luto ko palang nato. sabi na, na ria na isa niya. hindi ikaw yunapakain sa akin. at na deceiver ako. okay. but yunawat, after jacob deceiver's father, yung dadi niya, hindi nilong voc yung blessing yung jacob. hindi niya sinabi. magkurs yung si jacob niya na maluloko, deceiver yung tao niyan. desiver yung baka nayan. desiver yung yung yung next generation ayan. hindi niya sinabiyon. but, instead, ang ginawanya, asafiay, his own preference as he bless both of his son. he did not revoke his blessing to jacob, indeed he blessed him. but he bless both of his sons. now, anapuba yung word the bless. yung bless is the greek word of ulogyo, or ulogyo, okay. which means, bring a good word or to confer a benefit. okay? now, such blessings were very important. important to put up a para sa anila. kayap putala gang pinagagawa nanda lwoy. yung blessing yung word lang po, because this blessing, they address this to god. so, umbaga para nila, lapit pwanda na toko ay god. talaga, yung ina-adresil na ang kagaglord, i pray that you will bless this person. and they view this blessings as the shaping of the future. kung ano yung blessed ko dito sa anya. kung ano yung siinabi ko sa anya, it is gonna shape his future. eto na yung maghiging situasio na maghigim buhay na. and indeed, as they address it to god, it is happening in their lives. and even if you know, it is real, because it is not just the physical, it is all spiritual. again, if we talk about the previous of the series, the make-room, it is the spiritual. it is all spiritual. the battle of spiritual realms. okay? i know you will be able to see the future of my children. whenever i talk to my daughter like two days ago, i will be able to see the future of my children. we will not see the future of my children. it is a little bit different from the future of my children. so, i will be able to see them. that is what i am gonna do. but then, i will be able to see them. you know what? ryan, you are gonna be great. you will have a great destiny. as we name you, re-and-destiny. you are gonna have a great destiny. because god has something for you. you are gonna be a great leader and you are gonna be a blessing to this nation. you are gonna be, i always say that. those kind of words. even in my daughter's order, even in my daughter's belly, she is straight. okay? she is straight. i bless them. when you look at her, you are gonna be blessed. you are gonna become a blessing to people. i spoke those blessings to them. it seems like you know what i am gonna do. this is what i am gonna do. this is what i want to do. and actually, it is something inside. there is happening spiritually inside of them. now, are we like that to the next generation? when we see something, it seems like it is something that you are gonna do. are we addressing it? and at the same time, i am blessing them. or you are not saying that. some of us said these things. when you are in a relationship, you are gonna be like that. you are gonna be like that. you are gonna be like that. this is what i want to do. and you are gonna be like that. you are gonna be like that. you are gonna be like that. you are gonna be like that. that is the worst. that is the generation. that is the crisis. and some parents said something against their children. some of us here, i mean, we are gonna push it out. and then, you are gonna be like that. you know what? there is no point. we think those kind of words are just simple. and then, we are gonna push it out. i am just gonna push it out. it seems like there is no point. if you are gonna do something against your children, if you are gonna do something against your children, you are gonna be like that. whenever, whenever, we are gonna be like that. sometimes, we curse them. we say this negative curse is a them. when your child is being blamed, when your child is being blamed, does that mean the children are the same and so do you. then repeat. repeat. it's照 60%. this why blev after this? see? it is so disinwas because your child was injured. it is better that her child lives on uterus. did you see that she was injured? yes. she christians lambda the story from the police and then their mothers died after the accident. they were killed. magsumagatong anak ko, eka si- suma sa gut kapah! ngayon na anak, walang magawa na luluha na na mungulan na na matam, bakit ng mungulang matamong adika no, adika! magkat ka no, adika, magkat ka noong sa kwarta mo, ngayon tamalikon ko anak ko, wud mungkuntata talik, wud mungkuntata talik, wud mungkuntaka sa pakita. amin, wala na choysong anak ko, kinabukasan, nungkuntong mungkuntok mo kaayon, ubakat ka malung ko, sa bai, ubakat ka malung ko. sipulagin na lang ako malibi sa bahin at malin na ako sa ganyaman, nak nak nak nak nak nak nak nak nak. okita mo malin na naman ako, na. wala na lang tama ako, ginowadi to, alo ba na manyan? so, doos ka na tank, bilibe ka maratisin na ng choy nganon ng kumpagab. are we blessing them, or are we listening to them? sa mga inanakit na, na meron sila. so that we understand and bless them, okay? this word has an effect on both physical and spiritual of a person. this can become a foothold of the enemy. lalo ako yan. pwede yung maging foothold ng enemy sa buhay nila. it is because whenever, marala punila to mga bagay na to, sabi nila, mga pala, wala ako ko, kumpag. kong ngapalak, wala ako, so gagamiting ng yanon ang enemy sa kanya. wala ka, nila. diba si nabisay ng na na yung mo, bubulu ng anyan ang enemy. diba si nabisay mo, belakadang nga dung mo. belakadang magagawa, wala ako, nila ka nito, asakata, asakata. o mano, so meron sa kanilang mga karasilan ang something in their hearts. actually, they have two kinds of responses when we look down on the youth. they young people. the ones of responses. number one, they can become insecure and security. they will be hopeless in life. parang wala, wala naka, wala naka, wala naka pa, ah, sa sabuhay na to. like what i said earlier, nabuhay naka, mahirap, mga matay na ako mahirap. pag nagaral, misan niya sa amen. i remember this, lumakipu ko, asya ako sa sana ang dress bukid. so, ngayon, one time, na ang english ang isang bata. yes. wow, parip ang english english pad, dumanon. kaila mo na mana sa kapah. susyel, susyel, ka jan, na gis lang. minura pa. amin, dos kanal, things. gina na nagajong, bata, amin. eh, to, bata na to. okay, hindi pala ako kay lang magingan. ito, kay lang pala mga harap lang ako na malikit. gagang nabikam insecure. pag tina na mo ang pangarap ko sa buhay simdala. asa mga pagtapos lang, magapagano lang. gina, okay. duhan nabikam hablas, bakit. ako nga dapatilay, blasay. kasi, ito, kay lang ako na mga pakey, pakey. whenever they look on people, parang. po, hindi po. why? because we will last a long dig in that. because ang tingin, ang tingin, it is necessary to know mga baba. that is why hindi si nanda pro-progress in life. you are gonna think, baka ganyan ng mga pilipe, no? pag mga lumakig, ganyan, semulapong nambatayon. the insecurity that has been planted in their lives. pagalo, po rebelyon. pong hindiyan mag-insecure mag-iging rebeld yan. they will try to prove something. hindi mo nang-insecurean, when you say something sa kanila, gado niyang magpapatunayan. papatunay ang ko sa yung hindi ako ganito. bukas nuluhu da mga tala. bukas mga kaita mo inay. i mean, they can become successful financially. they have their own business, but actually, they have hurts and hatred in their hearts, which is indeed naman tama. down in mga pera, may mga coach ka, may mga ganyan ka. but the hatred sa pusumunan jamparen. well, guess what? finances. and mga maninayan, cars and houses, hindi box-yum blessing sa ganyan. and down in mga pera, but at the same time, the heart man naman hindi ma sa yaha. yang ayon mga kaita mo yung mga talo. and down in talo, ng ang yayaman na papakamata. why? it is because they have this hatred. gusto nilong mga patunay sa- sa muntunatomayan, ang gusto mga patunayan. pag hindi ko na kami. oh man, naman. mga patakabata yung. kayangan, meron, meron, kamakakita na yung mga sujante, na, si nabi ang babaw lang, bumag saklang sa mat na paka matay na. bumag saklang sa exam na paka matay na. and guess what? hindi yun yung punut dulu nung. is the insecurity in them? is the rebellion in their heart na parang... meron ng gusto mpa to na hindi ko na ko hain? there is something. in our words, then can shape the next generation. and they have the tendency to pass it, pass their hearts on their future family. yung mga pamilyang nga kapanagapu. liba, meron tayo mga marriage, problems, yung mga marital problems, wau, actually, hindi naman puta nga marital problem yung, nga marital problem yung believe that. it is a problem ng individual a-person na nada nada lang sa marriage. and galing yung sa paka-bata. dung nga nada nada nada nada lalhat. but, yung mga marital, it is a different thing when you bless them and believe in them. it is a different thing when you bless the next generation and believe in them. i remember this story, and so vivid parin para sa akain. i want to be nig na akin na. this was, i think, four years ago. naga, nga pungpunta pwa ako don, and then naga, naga, naga, be built to ako na relationship sa mga sajanti. mga high school students puna natin don. and, nga nga nga nga pasok sa binig na akin na. pero, meron pukas yakong, meron pumpart na teacher ang mga, nga, nga kina kausap don. so, ngayon, nga pungpunta lang pwa ako din sa, sa kafit area, and, to matambay ako don, kemakain ako don, nga kita ko to ang mga group of students nato, high school students, mga second year yata, or first year. so, nagshaire ng aong aong story. so, nagshaire ng aong aong story. so, nagshaire ng aong not, din rito sila, simple lang, malilit lang po, pero, tungtong aong sila, nagshaire na nagshaire sa story ako. and, shinaragol sa kanila na, nga, you know what, there is hope in this life. nipag asa, sa, sa buhay no. wong nyo, isipin nagayon ng lang. so, nga, you know, i did not share the gospel yet. i just shared my life. i just spoke blessing to them. and, you know what, paglabas ko, ng, ng, ng, ng, ng school, pasakain ako sa sa kyan. so, hapobobok sa ko yung pintuan. meron ako nakitang sujante. hina bula ko yan layon o ni? hina bula ko makaripas talaga nantakbo. nyang ... decide, so, nga butsas habinyoc, k breach, sa monsieur kows habig'o u' milky, hanong aching ay kong ... first time ko lang cyan langas- najanto mon orient. dahas nat ponde naman na sa nitan. hina ba sa sa natan, mawroklog pa sa nabiputangood ko ako, haapon? kog ba? sabin ka sa ken salamat. tumakbusha para lang sabihin na salamat. salamat po. kasi. ma'yunalam ko na. na may pag-asap ala. may pag-asap ala sabbuhay na, man. may pag-asap ala sa... sakinalala ga yung kung may ang... ...baya niya ka. pa, ang it. sorry. um... ...tahas habi ko? kasi na yun. ili na na para, ano. ili ang mga saayang pagpunta mo di ito. thank you bro. sabi kisakanya. kis ako na umales, kasi... ...para di yung mga kita yung luha ko, no? anay, wayan nisayat mga ka, na iwan sa driving. kasi sa-sakin ka, noon sa-lamat po. those simple words, nabin ang git kasi sa kanila. simpli lang sabi ko lang may pag-asap ala. at dika yung habambuhay ganyan. dika yung habambuhay mahirap. dika yung habambuhay na ka ka ka ka ka ng ganyan klasing ano. eh, you will become a blessing to other people as well. kaka yan ng yan. those simple words, hina bull nakoh para lam magpa salamat. and it is said, lord, salamat po, sa pagbigay mo sa aking nakopportunity. to do this kind of things, and you know what? we have that. may run pukainon. may run pukainon, jesus'y. so you have that hope in your heart. you have this... this hope, sa buhainyo, that you can pass on to the next generation. and my hope and prayer for all of us that, hina yung making selfish, simple five minutes, to bless them. take time. they just speak a blessing to these people. yes, marat nakakagawasilana mga malay. yes, marami sila paka-amalay. yes, nakagagawasilana mga cry, but you know what? it is different when we bless them, when we speak life to them. it is a different thing. i thank god for that. number two point. in number one point puna tenis this. bless the next generation. number two point. so they can become a blessing to others. and well, bless the next generation so they can become a blessing to others. sa be putito in verse 21 by faith, jacob when dying, blessed each of the sons of joseph, bowing in worship over the head of his staff. this verse came from genesis 48. okay? this is genesis 48 verses 8-9. sa be itito. when israel saw joseph's sons, see, see, and i put it here. see, joseph, he became israel. he was the only one who knew israel. because joseph, he was the only one who knew israel. he was the father of the eight tribes of israel. he was the only one who knew israel. because jacob was the only one who knew israel. that means the receiver. so he was the only one who knew israel. sa be itito, when israel saw joseph's sons, he said, who are these? joseph said to his father, they are my sons, whom god has given me here, and he said, bring them to me, please, bless them. actually, this is what israel and joseph knew about his sons. so, because he was the only one who knew egypt, and joseph was the only one who knew egypt. so, he was the only one who knew him. for so many years, in the last years of israel, jacob was the only one who knew joseph. so, he knew that he was the only one who knew him. and he said, what are you going to do? what are you going to do? joseph said, what are you going to do? what are you going to do? what are you going to do? so, bring them to me, please, that i am the only one who knew them. actually, jacob received blessings from his father, isaac. israel was the only one who received blessings from his father. no, he do not deserve it, because the receiver, he received isaac, the receiver, say. but then he received it, because he do not deserve it. that is why he experienced the goodness of his father. he did not deserve it. he did not deserve it. he did not deserve it. he did not deserve it. he did not deserve it. and yet, he received the blessings. and actually, this is the story of the story. let me offer forgiveness. it is a heart, nothing. having a heart, we can bless the next generation. it is because we receive blessings from the lord. because he experienced the goodness of god. he experienced the goodness of his father, isaac. he experienced the love and faithfulness and blessings of god. he believed in the next generation beyond his lifetime. because indeed, he was blessed. as his father, isaac, blessed him. he said, bless him, sobra, sobra. actually, he had a heart, and yet, that is why he said, it is because of that, because of the blessings that he received, though he do not deserve it, he believed in the next generation. he believed in blessing the next generation. that is why he took time. even though he was blessed by israel, because he was blessed by israel, i may bless them. the shaping of their future, i want to bless them. i want to bring them to me. he believed in this. beyond his life, because he knows, he knows nothing. he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows, he knows. actually, it is not true that for ever, even you who enjoy, feel assuming prayers for the good, even you who stand out front to eat, but one thing is foreshort, where you all have to live. there is nothing, that we want to see, that we have done so the past, that we have determined to live, that we have to take up the next generation. we have to think about our success. even though they are able to deal with gisis manayan, if they do not have a success or they are not really successful. they are not. because even if you are a man, if you are not successful, if you are a man, if you have a success or then you are successful, it is the same thing with us here. as christians, are you racing up the next generation? are you blessing them? the way god has blessed you, the way people reach out to you and bless you. are you doing the same thing to them? are we doing it? he believes that the future rest in the next generation. i want to show you a video. we are going to show you a video. and these people believe in the next generation because someone believed in them. actually, it is our our campus missionaries, they are all the same. they are all the same. they are all the same. this is the 2018. the campus missionaries are all across the philippines. they are all the same because they are all the same. they are all the same because they are all the same. so, the school of campus ministry is based on the 2018. so, they are like interviews. but they did not even expect what they did to them. so, they just wanted to know about the heart of the next generation. what can you say about the next generation? and what we are going to say is that the school of campus is just like that. it is just that they are all the same. and what we are going to say is because i am really happy about this. i am really happy about this. i am really happy about the next generation. why? because someone believed in them. let us just watch this video. okay. are you ready? i am ready. how do you realize these students? okay. yeah. yeah. how do i feel? i am a postman of post-oportalk. i am my girl. when i see the students, i see the sons and daughters of god. they are all very deep back to him. i know. it breaks my heart because a lot of them they do not know their purpose. they do not know their true identity. they settle for less with the wrong relationships and organizations. i was lost because of the purposes of the way. they do not know what god can do. do i have to do it with my parents? i see them as a ship without a shepherd. they have a great future ahead of them, but some of them are really misaligned. some of them are fighting for the wrong things. there are many philosophies that are being taught inside the campus. it breaks me. when they identify themselves as being part of the world. they do not know where to go. they do not know their direction in life. the same thing. the same thing that i told you before. the same thing that i told you before. someone has to initiate that you are more than what you tell them. when you look at them and look at them in the lens, how god sees them. this is what happened to us. the whole world was destroyed. i was lost because of our own people. the whole world was destroyed because of jesus christ. of course. that is why i was lost in the world. the love that you have to satisfy, the love that you have to give to your own children is to be created. i want them to know that i am excellent in god. it is seeing every student transformed by the gospel of jesus christ. i have to believe that god is the god's will. i have to believe that god is the god's will. because it is jesus christ who is the god's will. to help the purpose of life. it will help them know that in this dark world, there is light. even though we have struggles with our people, we have to be strong. when they realize that it is a daily walk, it is not a pressure to walk with jesus. it really gives them freedom. we need to let them see who they really are meant to be. when i see students at the campus, i see our future society. because when we reach out to one student, we reach out to their family. we can see that they are getting so strong. they are so strong. can you imagine that we are also reaching out to the future families? i see a family that someday that family will be a blessing to the community. they would be a christ-centered family with a mission. i see future leaders, i see world changers, i see future presidents, future senators, future doctors of this nation. they will be able to uphold god's will, they will be able to uphold the political foundations in those areas. we will have a nation and a generation with leaders that fears god, walks in integrity and leads with excellence. we are not only leaders, we are also leaders of god. i also feel that gladness that there is still hope in our nation, in our community, in our society. not just being right in the society, but being right in god's eyes. the mindset that every day we do is a worship to god. i am so privileged to become an instrument to be able to get to know god. i feel excited and i feel assured that this is the call that god has been. this is the call that god wants me to do. god has so much plans for their future, and that is why we change the campus and change the world. my future post and ex-generation are in tamil. we believe that church. last story before we put in again. i met this person, he is a tall-aged boy, he is a leader, he is a tall-aged boy. he is a tall-aged boy because he is a schooler. i was born in university of makati. seven years ago, i thought there, until now, we were able to do a class when the leadership, integrity, faith, and excellence of our life. we were teaching them, they were not a full-time professor. but as a campus missionary for us to build relationships with these people, and teach them about life, and at the same time, we will return to our own home. so, what happened to your life? when i was a child, i was a graduate. this is what i said. i was a child. this is what i said. i was able to tell them, i was able to tell them that this was what i said. i mean, why? what is funny? i tried to tell them that they were giving them money. they were really talking about money. they said, they are really mocking this person. why? and then i realized that i was able to tell them one time that i was able to tell them that i was able to tell them ito ang shadon, sa sabung sa kanya ali, makat ka nag-iisadito. haban niya, kasi. lano ang gusto makapag-an sa kankasama sa kank. bakit? wala ka baka, ibygank, meron. kayalang, dito na makalang kuntoto. friends ko na manzila. yung ay bak. okay. alam yung marami puwakong marami ako naging tanin sa klasin ng anang krabito na toli, dertong toon na toon. ang goaapun na toon na toon na toon na toon. pending, pending kami, deilor yan. alam yung an, ang grupunato talagang leader talagang pending, at ang grupunato, we can just befriend with them and build a relationship. but i chose to go to this person and say, i wanna build a relationship to this person. and sabi ko kay ni ito. wala, wala ang gusto makapag-ibygank sa yung. you know what, i am telling you right now. from this day on, i am your friend. unto may yung parang, alam yung namulat yung sabi ngayon. serios ako abang, segi ng ako among parang toto obayan. yes, i wanna be your friend. and then we did want to one parapos sa mga indipun ako alam sa 6, 7 chapter booklet po. it is a walk, a, a guide dance, sa pagwakoon natin kay ka, and we did it. ito po inin, vaikapos sa church natin, and then we are doing it. and at the same time, atopong tao nato, may insecurity sa buhay niya. pero sa power timintalit yung parang ako nalang, ako, ako, ako, puro bighay na lang yung sabbatos yung instant, go tayo, go tayo. pero tinan ang kong asya, bakit yung sabbatos mo ganyon, wala ka mo bilde, wala pa kasi na bibigay sa ako niya. ha, yung damit mo ba ganyon. kasi wala pa ng bibigay sa ako niya. para lang, puro ako, ako, ako, ako. pero tin, benrate na maman yung sabit sa mga kasi sa ang yayon you know what, bro? you are gonna'n beom aggressive at na zingma kasi调ila. you know what, bro? you are gonna'n beom applicationени kigga yung cover na nilong sa ang các roo, because god will bless you, and your design is not just to get and get, but your design to give to less agar peepon, because god will bless you tremendously. naki tako siya na kapabang o. naka ay siya na med. hindi naman mo mo halingin sa patas, pero may bago siya ng mga patas. naggulat ako. habi ko. pahagin sa patas mo. bumili ako. kain mo pala bumili. it is just a power to mindset in him. meron ng mga pala. kain mo mga pala. naki tako sa kanya. meron sa'ndalah. sabi ko nangin dalang mo. donuts. dalang mga box ng donuts. ang gagim mo yan. ipapamigagyo sa pila. bige sa ay no. i can become a blessing in the hero race. do you know what i am doing? you are just a man. kailangan ng yung mariniig yung mga nito kwasim ba? you know what, silito? he became a great leader po sa ouringsuit service. nag asher po yan. naglib po yan. tapos na wala po siya. bige sa nagkatrabahu siya na putasyan ng batangas. naging leader po punatis sa victoria lipa. pero i-mot mo ang saan ang isang kampus mishinada sa abinya sa aaron bro. kilalang mo ba tung tao na toa kanabi. ok sa maglib. ok sa mag-anuhata na kanagahin ako sa silito. oh, bro, it is one of our leaders here. and i know how. what a blessing na ming yari sa buhay niya. thank you lord for that. and you know what, nagvisit ako sa facebook ng liito. itin na kita ako sa kanya. i will stay with you even if everyone leaves. what is the message of jesus in his life? ito parang yung nakata tak sa kanya. kumpanggaparang lahat in yung yung nakong, pero ikaw yung nag-remain sa akin lord. ikaw yung nak-bigay ng pag-asas sa akin gan. ikaw yung nak-bigay ng hope sa buhay ko gada. that is why even right now, ito yung tag ko sa buhay ko. it takes faith for us to bless the next generation. to look beyond the past. for us to look, it takes faith for us to say, may papupuntaan to tawa na to. pag nakita natin yung mga yung people natin the next generation. kaya ka ko na na pianas, please. the next generation, when we see them, ano ba yung nakagita natin, yes, hampanggaparang na ang panggapanggapang na yari sa buhay niya. but you know what, it takes faith for us to see beyond the past. for us to see beyond, what is happening right now, that this person will have a great future and will become a blessing to men. ngayon lang yung yung ganyan, nakikita ba natin, yung future. we have to have the faith in the lord, lord, kaya mong baguwinta tao na to. so he can become a blessing to others. marikas is an everyone of us. please stand as we end. alam yung post-jisus christ before pushai pawos ako. he was mocked. may iktawanan ka, minubung ka. he was beaten, pinakos sa pros. ndipinapan wala an yung mga testimony, nesinabina. kinyomat, ito nesinabipuni jisus. paliwas nair nasa pros. sabi nya. inlook chapter 23 verse 34. and he said, father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. jesus, despite his suffering, still calls to bless the people by forgiving them. even though ito yung ganawasa kanyanan tao, he calls blessing to them despite of the circumstances. despite the kanyanan sa kanyan sa aherop, he still calls for blessing for us. lord, father, forgive them, did you know what they are doing? lord, you know what? because he knows that we are youth in the eyes of god. we are children in the eyes of god. but, we are all children in the eyes of god. and the thing is, you know what they are doing? because he knows that only by receiving love and forgiveness that we can love other people as well. because, he did not know what he was doing. he did not know what he was doing. he did not know what he was doing. that is why jesus initiated it. god initiated that love for us. that while we are sinners, he died for us. while we are still sinners, he actually made us even right now in the eyes of god. we are beating him. we are, we are, we are the one who is in front of us. and yet he said, forgiveness, blessing, blessing, only by knowing my love. you will love other people as well. those people, the young people, the young people, the young people who are crying, the young people who are crying, blinded, you know what they are doing? they do not know, they do not even know what they are saying. they know what they are doing. they do not know what they are doing. it is like we are doing the same thing before we do this. we do not know what we are doing. we do not know that we are, we are suffering from the pain of our sins. we are doing what we are doing. we are beating him. we are not knowing that we are doing what we are doing. we are not knowing that we are doing what we are doing. because you are not aware. our hearts are countless. those people are like that too when we see them. they are hurt. because they experience hurt. but when they experience the love of god, when they experience the love of god through us, then they too can love people as well. they can change this nation. they can, they, they, they god can change their lives only by using us to love them. blessing is not just box on finances, but through investing also. some words not in sayang nila, are we blessing them? are we speaking life to them? it is a heart nila. lord, we will lift you our next generation. we will lift you even right now, you are the ones who are with us. we want changes, lord. we want to change the wrong mindsets of these people, the outside world, lord. not just here, god. we want to be blessed with god. we want to be blessed with god. if we have wrong mindsets, and we, we, we curse them, if we are the one who curse them, lord, we repent. we want to speak blessing to them. we want to call a group of people here. if you are here now, you are here to live in the same way. you are here to hurt the young person, the person who has a very good generation, you said something to them, maybe you are just going to be here, and you are just a curse to them. you are just a list of them, but you are missing your impact on them. if you are here, let us pray. lord, i pray. for us, the older generation, lord. lord, god, we repent from what we said. and god, we renounce the negative words, the purses that we said for the next generation. lord, right now, we lift them up to you, god. we are saying, we are speaking blessing to them. we are calling out the destiny, great destiny, lord, that you want for them, god. lord, i pray that you will put it always in our hearts, and remind us always to think for the next generation, lord, god. marami salamapok, and we want to repent and say, oh, lord, we do not want to do it again. guide us, god, in jesus' name. for the young people here, you should ask them, the young generation. there you go. teenagers, you know what i am saying, right? you can ask them, we will put our generation together. the young generation, if you have hurt from the past, even from your parents, from your parents, from your parents, or from your older parents, from your heart, they spoke blessing, they spoke herses against you, and means to them to give you. i want you to forgive them. we are going to pray this prayer. lord, i pray god for forgiveness in our hearts. we will be able to forgive the older generation from what they said, or the person who has been in the lord, we forgive them, lord, god. we put it on your feet, god, and say, lord, i want to thank them for what we have done. thank you, god, because forgiveness is not for them. it is for me. thank you, lord. lord, god, i pray, i speak blessing to these young people, the next generation leaders. i pray god that you will raise them up, lord, as leaders of this nation, lord, leaders of their family, god, that they will do the right thing, god. i pray that they will stand on what is right, lord, god. they will stand on the truth, and that is the gospel, which you have laid down two thousand years ago, god. you died on the cross, and paid the penalty of their sins, of our sins, god, and i pray, god, that they will be reminded of your love for them, so that they can become a blessing to other people, because as we bless them, god, they will become a blessing to other people as well. lord, maraming salam, for this next generation, i pray for great future for them, for great things, lord, that will come ahead of them, god. i speak blessing for them, god, not just in this generation, not just in the next generation, god, but for the generation after the next generation, lord, god. it will pass on lord, god, it is because they can bless others as well, god, as they receive your blessing and your love for them, god. maraming salam, for in jesus' name and prayer, and everybody say, amen.