congratulations, first of all. thank you. is it as much, is it as great as i imagine it would be to hit a home run in the world series? it is even better. is it even better for you, man? it is crazy. i do not even remember what i did. the celebrations and everything. i just blacked out. i hit the ball. i am like, i blacked out. have you watched it? have you gone back to watching on tv? no, i have not. i cannot wait. you never watched it. it is been non-stop since we won the award. no, stop. i would have not even been past second base before i was looking at it on the internet to watch it again. i got a sense of watch it yet. yeah, well, it is pretty good. you are going to be happy, i think. i agree with you. people are talking about the celebrations and the fist bump and everything. i am like, i do not remember any of that. like, you do not really blacked out. do you remember getting engaged? because this could be a problem. that could be a problem, i would be answering if i do not remember. the answer is right here. i do not remember. this is daniel. my. congratulations to both of you. thank you. gailiella, did you know he was going to do it? did you have any ideas that was going to happen? no idea. i mean, he had been so focused on all these games that the last thing i ever thought would be on his mind was proposing to me. that is why i like yanked that gate out of my way. he turned the world series into the bachelor or all of us. how much planning went into this? well, it was like, for the whole month, i have been planning it. but i knew we had championship colorate teams. so i was winning it out to see how far we could go. and then in game six, i had their ring ready. in my backpack, i am like, this is the night. this is the night. we lost the game. i am like, oh my gosh, one more game. i do not have plan b, so we better win. because i do not know how to do it. so we have to win the game. and i want to say what they were doing for both. so my beautiful fiancee. did it ever occur to you that maybe daniel might say no? it was that ever a possibility? i think he knew i was going to say yes. that is why he took such a big risk. i mean, live television. thank you, daniel. if the dodger said one, would you have married one of them? no. no. will you guys get married on a baseball field? will you consummate your love on a baseball field? somebody asked me when we were getting married. and i said, when are we in the worst series again? so if it is 10 years, we got to wait 10 years to get married. no, i just kidding. i am just kidding. i know you are kidding. it is hurt that does not know you are kidding. she gave me that face. she gave me that face. when do you get your world series ring? now we get it in opening day next year. opening day next year. and did you ever consider, oh, maybe i will just give her that ring? and she might have lost that chance. i got a long time for that ring. so i thought that was the perfect chance for me to get engaged. so i had to do it right. what have you been doing over the last five days? take me through a little bit. so you had a parade, obviously. yeah, we had the beautiful parade in houston. people there, the support was incredible. i saw people crying there because obviously people have been through tough times in houston. right. and for us to be able to bring joy and happiness to a base, but he meant everything to us. there were people crying here in our way, too. ah, yeah. well, that is the moment that i will forever remember. that people crying and streaming out of their lungs, it was such a special moment. it is overwhelming when you realize. it is. because you come to a team, you never know what team you are going to get signed. and you see these people have been following this team for so long and how much it means to them. that it realized like there was a really big burden on your shoulders. yeah, absolutely. and you know, houston's like my second home. i am from puerto rico, obviously, puerto rico. i look up. i am back. so i was doing it for both. the people in houston and the people back home in puerto rico. what was going on in puerto rico? were people able to watch the games while you were playing? actually, puerto rico had a curfew. and i think nobody cared. everybody went outside to watch the games. and everything else getting texted from my family. and everybody's like, everybody's going outside to watch the games. they are going to sports bars and stuff to watch you play. it is amazing. so i really want to thank everybody for puerto rico for their support. yeah, really. where are you? where are you guys registered? in case astros fans want to send you gifts. we are not registered yet. you are not registered yet. are you going to register? will this be something that you do? i actually heard that some other couple has done it. so i told this agent, i am like, we need to look into that. i am not worried. chris bryant of the chicago cubs registered, he did not know that it would be public information. and then all of a sudden, he and his wife got a whole bunch of stuff from people. i guess you can just say that we did not know either. well, give it a go. we will do my awesome. yeah, gifts are always nice. may i ask you a question about your teammate, jose altuve? he is listed at how tall. i think he is listed at 5'7". ok. i heard 5'6". but how tall are you? 6'4". ok. how tall is it? like, when you guys went, i think you had a parade at disney world. was he allowed on the rides? laughter he was. he was. yeah, absolutely. how tall do you think he is? well, it depends. with cleats or without cleats? without cleats. without cleats? i think he is like 5'5". but you think he is that tall? yeah, it is his. see, if i was him, i would not exaggerate my high. i would not make myself like 4'9". and it really be an inspiration to... i know. but i am 6'4". and i wish i could hit like him. he is sent on bollywood hitter. yeah, me too. i mean, he is an unbelievable hitter. well, congratulations to you and to your fiancee on your rock series. and also, your love. you... not only did you break a lot of hearts here in los angeles, i think you broke a lot of women's hearts all across the country. but... thank you, come by. it is great to have you here. carlos, korea, everybody. we are on series champions.