my brand, as somebody who tells people things they do not want to hear. so let me start by telling you something you do not want to hear. stop trying to ban books, okay? stop it. if you want to be the free speech party, if you want to speak out for free speech and free expression, do not try to ban the citer house rules or get it out of school libraries or confessions of that turner. do not do it. if you like free speech, if you stand for free speech, you have to stand for free speech, even if you do not like what is being said. and that is what the left has completely forgotten. more and more day by day, week by week. censorship never works. it always fails. it fails strategically because it tells the people you are competing with that your ideas do not work, which is why you cannot debate them openly and freely. and it fails tactically because it gets people in the middle who may not have ever heard of the idea you are trying to ban. interested in it, this is famously called the streisand effect. it is always been true and it is more true than ever. so do not stand for censorship. censorship is un-american, it is unconstitutional, it is wrong. and besides the left is way ahead on it. the left loves it, so let the left have it right now. it is really amazing to me in the last five years how far the left has gone on censorship. most stunning, only two weeks ago, the department of homeland security put out a bulletin where it defined terrorist threats as misinformation or disinformation about covid and election fraud. and i want to read to you exactly what the department of homeland security defined as a terrorist threat two weeks ago. if you make statements that, and i quote, undermine public trust in government institutions to encourage unrest, which could potentially inspire acts of violence, you may be a terrorist. ok, i am a terrorist by that definition. and that means that the government is entitled to do lots of things to me if it actually defines me that way. that is wrong. and by the way, this definition could easily be applied to plenty of people on the left who spoke out in favor of the black lives matter protests. this is dangerous to both sides. it is dangerous to the united states. dhs should walk away from it. and journalists should be asking about it. but they do not want to because they are so in love with squelching debate right now. the people who i used to work with at the new york times have never said a word about this. i find it stunning and so disappointing. and across the border in canada, people who donated money to a protest that was truly mostly peaceful, essentially entirely peaceful, had threatened by the canadian government that they would have their bank accounts frozen, that they would essentially be shut out of life for donating to a peaceful protest. that is suppression of speech. it is wrong. and one week ago, people in the federal government spoke out against a website called zero hedge, which had committed the crime of publishing some stories that the biden administration did not like. and they said zero hedge might be an agent of the russian government. we are at a very strange moment when this stuff is happening and the traditional defenders of free speech are not speaking out about it. so that is the government acting directly, but the government is also acting indirectly through big tech, which i know ron desantis spoke about, governor desantis. and i felt like he was speaking to me as he was talking about how big tech sensors because last year at this convention, i said, hey, twitter has been good. twitter has allowed me to speak. and i have said things about the vaccines. and i have said things about covid that the mainstream narrative goes against. it goes against the mainstream narrative. and twitter has allowed me to do that. and then in july, i said something that anthony fauci did not like. and less than a month later, i was off twitter. twitter had banned me. and that is big tech censorship. at its worst, twitter is doing this. facebook is doing this. we know facebook pulls groups. sometimes with hundreds of thousands of people, this has to stop. these companies have held themselves out as public forums. twitter, jack dorsey, who was twitter's founder, and until very recently, twitter's chief executive said, under oath to the senate that twitter was a public square, this is not a public square if you have used that people do not like on the left. you get banned. they should not do this. and whether or not they can do it constitutionally as a question. hopefully that the supreme court will eventually get to decide. i have brought a lawsuit against them. former president trump has brought a lawsuit against them. one of these suits is going to get to the supreme court. and twitter may not like the outcome. because i am not backing down. and i am sure president trump is not backing down. but it is about more than me or him or any one person. it is about whether these huge, incredibly important american companies are going to live up to their promises to allow free speech and open debate. and they are not doing so. so i have 30 seconds left. and i hope next year when i am back here speaking to you, you will be able to see what i have to say on twitter. and i hope we will all be able to debate our response to covid and ukraine and everything else on twitter and facebook and these platforms, they should live up to their ideals. they should live up to our country's ideals. and they should be open platforms for free speech. thank you. ladies and gentlemen, this is a power play. please welcome former alaska commissioner kelly chabaca. thank you. i am kelly. kelly chabaca. i am born and raised in alaska. the woke leftist tried to cancel me before there was cancel culture. when i was an outspoken conservative at a liberal law school, the leftist posted death threats against me in the student center. but they could not cancel me. i will not be bullied. i will not be silenced. and i will not be controlled. but make no mistake, the radical progressives want to wipe out diversity of thought and a nation divided will not stand. our founders created a government designed to be of the people, by the people and for the people. one is supposed to function like the seven referees of a football field. they regulate the plays and they call the fouls. but right now we have 700 referees on the field. and they are fouling us all over the place when government grows, freedom shrinks. and for me, this has become very personal. my parents moved to alaska before i was born to pursue an american dream. but life does not always go according to plan. and they ended up becoming homeless. but my mom, she got a job in the oil industry. and with that oil job, they were proud to fight their way into working class america. yes, i am proud of them too. i got to be the first in our family to pursue a college education. and then i dedicated my career to public service, making government work for the people. i am an anti swamp bureaucracy whisperer. i have exposed waste fraud and abuse, cut costs, and my favorite, held government insiders accountable. i was focused on my job, my church, my amazing husband, and being an alaskan mom, educating five kids during covid. yep, shout out to the parents. and then senator lisa murkowski. you all could be alaskan. she cast the tie breaking vote to confirm the radical environmentalist deb holland to be joe biden's interior secretary. and with that single vote, murkowski killed thousands of oil and gas jobs, just like the one my mom had. i felt it like a kick in the gut. i owe everything to alaskan and to all those alaskans who came around my family to give us those opportunities that we had. but lisa murkowski, well, she owes everything to her dad, who appointed her to his vacant senate seat when he was elected governor. for the murkowski, it is a little bit like the british royal family. in the same way that queen elizabeth is going to hand on that crown to a descendant, their murkowski's have been handing down our alaskan senate seat like a birthright for 41 years. but nepotism breeds a lack of realism. so murkowski, she does not feel it when she votes to confirm joe biden's radical nominees, like she is done over 90% of the time. she does not feel it when she acts as joe biden's ceo, his chief enabling officer, voting along with biden's radical agenda and bernie sanders, a majority of the time, which hurts alaskans and everyone in this room. she even voted for the green new deal, you know, the infrastructure bill. murkowski did not just vote for it, she helped write it. it is time to hold these leftist supporting insiders accountable. and are not we all excited that come this november? we are going to block biden's business busting, border bungling, crime cascading, defense decimating, energy annihilating, gun grabbing, gender jumbling, liberally loathing, mandate, militating, parent punishing, police persecuting, social supporting, america obliterating, agenda. we have inherited a great country because of veterans like my dad and others who have paid a significant cost. and they walk in the footsteps of those who signed the declaration of independence and they pledge their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor. i believe that to whom much is given, much is expected. so i am not standing on the sidelines. well, joe biden and lisa murkowski and their woke leftist friends continue to obliterate the state and the country that i love. no. i am all in. yes. and today, i am inviting you to be all in with me. because it is time for americans with courage and common sense to rise together and lead us forward. i am kelly chabaca and i am for alaska. thank you. ladies and gentlemen, from north carolina, representative mark walker. thanks everybody. what a privilege to be here today. oh, beautiful for spacious skies, for amber waves of grain, for purple mountains, majesty above the fruited plains. written words of a young schoolteacher making her way across the plains in 1893. america the beautiful. we are a beautiful country, but our real beauty is in the fact that we are a beacon of freedom for the rest of the world. think about it. america is the most philanthropic country and is always the first to arrive with disaster aid. we have 25% more foreign-born citizens than any country in the world. we send missionaries to share the message, the gospel message of hope and healing of christianity across the world. and we take in one million legal immigrants every single year that raise their right hand to the oath and take it a legion to the constitution. and we celebrate that they are as much americans as you and i. do we believe america is beautiful? yes we do. hey, listen. i am not saying that we get it all right day one, right? but america is exceptional because we never quit trying until we became the land of opportunity for every american. a republic, if you can keep it, ben franklin said, well, we are the longest lasting republic in the history of the world. do you believe america is beautiful? dang straight we do. but freedom also has a price. get his berg. go out of canal. normandy. i would ever forget standing on the grounds and looking down at omaha beach and across the atlantic ocean and realizing that d-day was not won by great military generals or superior air cover. no, it was won by 18 and 19 year olds that kept charging up that hill wave after wave to make sure that those freedoms would be passed down to another generation. ladies and gentlemen, i ask you today, do you believe that america is beautiful? absolutely we do. over the last few years, leftist radicals are better named democrats in congress. they are no longer trying to hide their motives. so i will change. their attack to erode our liberty is supported by big tech, the press and the media. and now even corporate america has gone woke. remember the words of democrat james clybert about covid? never let a crisis go to waste. in fact, covid was used to fast-track mandates like no other time in history. listen, they even changed our election laws and used it to test us to see how much liberty americans were willing to give up. and frankly, i think even the left was surprised by just how much liberty we were willing to surrender. they will never stop trying to steamroll conservatives, folks like you and me. today, we face a new kind of evil. the battle for freedoms in the 21st century is as much spiritual warfare as it is political. do you believe that? absolutely. when democratic members of congress vote, literally vote against sustaining the life of a baby that somehow survives a bunch of abortion, my friends, that is evil. when joe biden and kamala harris give the green light to illegals, when they know their children will be trafficked and assaulted by drug cartels, my friends, that is evil. in america, we have turned our backs on the bible and the constitution and we have lost our moral compass. but today, do not lose hope. because here's the good news. joe biden and the left have overplayed their hand in americans or waking up and engaging like never before. i am meeting people who wanted it just to work hard to go to church, to raise their families, they are waking up and settling up as well. in fact, moms across the country are taking down leftists on school boards right and left and we celebrate that, right? indeed, we do. listen, ladies and gentlemen, it will not be easy. there is a price for liberty. there always has been. question is, what are you and i willing to pay for it? america the beautiful. you see, there is another verse to that song that we do not sing very much these days. a beautiful for heroes proved in liberating strife who more than self their country loved and mercy more than life. america, god shed his grace on thee and crown thy good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea. my friends, one last time, do you believe america is beautiful? yes, we do. may god provide the path and may we have the courage to follow. i am mark walker. god bless you and let us keep the fight alive. god bless. thank you. thank you. ladies and gentlemen, please welcome u.s. army combat veteran corey mills. thank you. thank you. how are we orlando? how great is it to live in the freest state in america? but we are only free because of tremendous leadership by governor grande de santis, the man who beat and defeat fouchism and shows america first. the same as president trump did when president trump stopped out socialism and who is the true elected, not selected, president of the united states. how many of you remember when president trump was elected, when they talked about the fact that he will be the beginning and start of world war iii. but what did we see? we saw more peace accords, more conditions based with draw to these never-ending wars by the neocons and those who are trying to prop up this military industrial base that we were warned about. now what do we see? we see joe biden and america at the weakest national security we have ever faced in our lives. what do we have? we have the failed withdrawal in afghanistan where thousands of americans were purposely left behind. and how do i know this? because my team and i conducted the very first successful overland rescue of an mother and her three children out of afghanistan after the fall in the taliban hunting them down. i pause my campaign for six weeks and why? because there is no price to doing the right thing. what do we see in america today? we see north korea with hypersonic ballistic missiles, russian technology advancing. china has now surpassed us with a naval fleet threatening taiwan. and now we have the russian invasion, or i should say, the re-invasion because the exact same thing happened under the obama biden administration. they annexed crimea. they took over don yetsk and yet were supposed to be surprised when they go back because they see the weak and woke administration under the biden administration. general milley spent more time looking at critical race theory, but he should have been opening a book on how to win wars. and what do we have now? we have veterans who are being turned away. we have a military purge and an unconstitutional vaccine mandate. a mandate that should not determine if you serve our nation or if you are able to go to work and put food on the table for your families. let me be clear, i am not for wokeism. i am not for critical race theory in our educational and military systems. i am not for unconstitutional vaccine mandates and masking of our children. as a father, it is shameful when i watch kids have to go to school and be taught that america is bad. how many of us feel that america is the best nation on earth? and let me tell you what else i support. as a constitutionalist and a conservative first and republican second, i support things like constitutional carry and are inalienable rights to protect our families and protect our homes. these are not things that our government limited rights. these are god-given rights. but let us be clear about what we see as well. people rights are more important than a woke teacher union. as parents we know that. so as we stand here today in the great city of orlando, never forget what we stand for because today is the time that patriots must rise. today is the time that we look at what isaiah says in the bible when god called and said who shall i send and who shall go forth? it is us who shall say, here am i, send me. i want to thank you all. i want to thank this amazing state. i want god bless you. god bless our families. god bless america. and that is why i am running here for congress and florida's seventh district to take back our country. thank you very much. ladies and gentlemen, please welcome former governor of missouri, eric gritans. well, good afternoon, patriots. we have a mission. and the mission is to take our country back. and we are here to do it. when i served as a navy seal and i took an oath to defend our constitution, it was an oath to protect the constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic. and right now, despite the mainstream media lies and rhino cowardice and corruption, you know and we know and we see the true nature of the enemy that we are facing and the fact, the brutal fact is clear. the left is actively trying to destroy our country. we know the truth. we will let the word go forth this afternoon from all of you who are standing here that we are going to stand for our country and we are ready to fight for it. i have been down to the border, not just to texas and to arizona, but to the mexican side of the border. and i have seen the 600,000 to million people that are crossing our border every single month. that is an act that is making america weaker and our adversaries stronger. they are trying to destroy this country. when you look at what they have done with the defund the police movement and the horrific rise in murders around this country, they are trying to destroy our country. when you look at critical race theory, you can see they are trying to divide our country. when you look at the covid tyranny and the assault on our liberties, you can see that they are trying to destroy our country. when you look at inflation, when you look at the military disasters and places like afghanistan and biden's policy of weakness and chaos that leads to aggression like we are seeing in the ukraine, you can see that they are trying to destroy our country. and a lot of folks in the mainstream media, some rhinos, they might say, well, you know, i mean, this is just because joe biden is senile and kamala harris is incompetent. and that is true. they are. but it is more than that. but it is more than that, folks. no one is this stupid. no one leaves behind billions of dollars of military equipment for the taliban, but that is what they did. and we must stand together to recognize the nature of the enemy. we are in a fight for the soul of our country. and it is a battle against evil. it is a battle against cruelty and it is a battle against tyranny. and we have to recognize that the left's policies are rooted in cruelty. you go down to the border right now. joe biden and mexican drug gangs and cartels are involved in the largest human smuggling operation in history. and it is happening on our border and that is cruel. we talked to one customs and border patrol agent who told us about one kid who'd been sold 17 times. you talk to the families, the thousands of families around this country who have lost loved ones to violence because of the left's insane defund the police movement that is cruelty. you think about what is happening for families who have had kids with disabilities kept out of school for a year. that is cruelty. the left is cruel. and it is also tyrannical. you look at their assault on our liberties. their assault on the first amendment. their assault on the second amendment. you look at the left's assault on our elections and on election integrity. you look at what the left is doing, the way they now and we know they spied on candidate trump and they spied on president trump and we know the truth. and we see around the country the george soros funded assault on the rule of law. that is the nature of the enemy that we are facing. and when you look back historically what you see is the same thing that our founding fathers saw. the nature of leftism is that it never stops. they always progress to more and more tyranny. you can look at the jacobins and the french revolution. you can look at lenin and stalin. you can look at mao in china, pol pot in cambodia. those who ride the tiger of tyranny. they keep progressing to more and more oppression because they know that if they step off the tiger will eat them as well. so the fact is the left is not going to stop. and you have to make a choice. we have to make a choice. are we going to stop them? and i will tell you that right now we know patriots around this country rising up and we are saying we are going to stand for our country and we are going to take it back. and this country will not be taken back by rhinos. it will be taken back by america first patriots who are willing to stand with courage and faith to make sure that we can pass on to our kids more than we inherited. there is a stark choice facing our country at this moment. and it is a choice between surrender to leftist cruelty and tyranny. or the revival of our republic with freedom and faith and courage. and i am here to stand with you for the revival. thank you. god bless you. i appreciate your courage. thank you very much. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. ladies and gentlemen, from the national rifle association, please welcome wayne loppier. thank you very much. and thanks to all of you for being here today. you know, every where you look, you can see americans all over this country are worried about the direction our country has headed. americans are sick and tired of watching our time-honored american values like freedom, honesty, integrity, the rule of law being reduced, ridiculed, and replaced by politicians who deal in lies, who see integrity as weakness, and who frankly do not give a damn about your freedom or the rule of law. seriously, i mean, you want an example? look no further than the guy that right now occupies the white house. earlier this month, in an event to honor two courageous new york city police officers who were murdered by a violent felon, joe biden shamelessly used the opportunity to push his gun band agenda. he went up there and he called for a band on semi-automatic rifles. he called for a band on standard capacity magazine. he called for a band on private gun sales. and he called for suing america's firearms manufacturers into the ground and out of business. the one thing you did not hear him call for at all is the one thing that could have saved those officers and helped them return home to their families that day. you did not hear joe biden once call for putting violent criminals behind bars where they hauled along. he did not want, not once, mentioned at the monster who killed those officers was a violent felon out on parole when he should have been in jail. instead, what joe biden did is he set there and shamelessly looked right into the camera and he pointed his finger at you and me and he blamed us and our second amendment for it. this is the same joe biden who serves as a national cheerleader for pro criminal policies and you know what i am talking about like no cash bail. it is the same biden who wants to get rid of mandatory minimum sentences and it is the same joe biden who refuses to get serious about prosecuting felons who violate federal gun laws and instead he just lets them go free. make no mistake joe biden's radical agenda to help violent criminals escape justice is only going to make deadly crime and the way that is across our country right now spread farther and deeper into more communities all over our precious country. but no matter how hard biden tries to blame us for the violent crime that he enables, i am happy to report that americans who are all over this country are not buying into his agenda. you know what they are doing instead? they are out there in record number buying guns. last year, 5.4 million americans purchased a firearm for the first time in their lives. and you know why? because all of them can see what is happening all around them in their country and they want to be able to protect themselves and they want to be able to protect their families. they see, forget the paper and they see the daily news stories of another violent robbery, another heinous murder in another part of their community that they always thought was safe. and they know that joe biden and his anti-gun allies care more about protecting criminals than protecting those law-abiding americans. you know, i do not know if you saw this but in a recent news story, i do not know if los angeles, california, a small gun shop owner in beverly hills of all places reported a huge increase in business from the folks you would least expect. movies stars, film executives, hollywood bigwigs, more and more and more of them were sneaking into his shop and secretly buying guns. you are probably the same actors who buy a gun one day and the next day they go out in a rail against you and me and our second amendment rights. you know when you think about it, maybe that is why so many celebrities are out there pushing so hard for mask mandates. they do not want anyone to recognize it when they sneak into the gun store. and if any of those hollywood hypocrites are watching right now, as we sit here, i have the message for you. no matter how much you attack us, belittle us, or try to shame us for exercising our second amendment rights, the men and women of the national rifle association will fight for your right to keep in bear arms just as hard as we fight for ours. because this freedom belongs to all of us as americans. and even though we are facing off against the anti-gun white house, nancy pelosi and charles schumer, i am proud to report that nra is not just holding the line for freedom, we are advancing it. every time joe biden has tried to ram through his gun band agenda through congress, he is running into a brick wall of nra members. remember, and you will remember this, everyone's talking about it, when biden nominated the gun band lobbyist david chipman to head up atf last year, chipman would have used his position of power to lay waste to our gun rights in this country. every so-called expert at the time said chipman's confirmation was a done deal. there was nothing anybody could do about it, they all said. well, they sure got that wrong. nra went out and led the fight to stop chipman's confirmation. and when the dust cleared by god's we won. and he went down to defeat. we also have taken the biggest second amendment case in over 10 years all the way to the supreme court. you will be just excited probably in june. this landmark case is going to decide whether every law abiding americans' right to self-defense stops at their front door or if it exists outside of their home. and thanks to the men and women of the nra, you are right to carry a firearm for self-defense in this country is now legally recognized in 42 states and counties. because now more than ever, especially in joe biden's america, every law abiding citizen should have the god given right to defend themselves and their loved ones, no matter where you live in this country. i want to conclude by saying i cannot tell you what an honor it is to be here with all of you today and what an inspiration all of you in this conference is. i know you are here today because when you get worried about america, you do not just shake your head and your fist and scream at the wall. you educate yourself. you take action. you lead and you go out and fight back. i have seen you do it year after year and never forget that your voice resonates far beyond this room. and when you are an nra member, it resonates even farther, carrying the weight of millions of nra members and tens of millions more americans who support our cause and look to us for leadership in defending freedom. so from where i am standing right now, i ask you, join us. join millions, millions of your fellow patriots across this nation by joining the nra. join the most successful civil rights organization in the history of our great nation. join because you pledge your allegiance to the principles of freedom, not politics. and join because your right to self-defense is more sacred right now than any other right you possess. and join because there has never been a more important time to saddle up and ride with the national rifle association. thank you. god bless you and god bless the united states of america. thank you very much. hey, let us keep fighting every day. ladies and gentlemen, please welcome senator ted cruz. god bless, see back. not an amazing sight, thousands of patriots and not a damn mask in sight. obviously, everyone here is just following stacey abrams example. we find ourselves at an existential moment for our nation. the threats in our country have never been greater. so i want to do something a little bit unusual for cpac. i want to step back and go a little more philosophical and ask what is this battle all about? where are we fighting about in this nation? and i am going to suggest that the fundamental conflict that is playing out across this great nation is a battle between power and liberty. the two are in fundamental conflict. we are seeing it every day, vaccine mandates versus doctors and nurses, mask mandates versus kids in school, spotify versus joe rogan. go fund me versus canadian truckers. justin trudeau. let us pause for a second and observe that is the first time in recorded history that any canadian has ever elicited that much of a response from any crowd on planet earth. justin trudeau and the god fearing canadian truckers. the new york times versus barry white. levi's versus jennifer say. aoc versus damn near anyone who ever dared to criticize her. although actually as she told us if you criticize her, it means you really want a date. if you look at this battle, this is not a battle between the weak and the strong. joe rogan has many things but he am not weak. major league baseball which went after the voters of georgia, the georgia voters are many things but they am not weak. the biden department of justice when they went after parents. parents or many things but they am not weak. just ask loud in county. just ask terry mccullough. just ask all the left wing democrats in virginia who are scared out of their minds right now. you gotta understand what is playing out here. what is playing out is the powerful are afraid. they are terrified of you. they look out at the men and women in this room and you scare the living crap out of them. they are afraid of truth. they are afraid of liberty. that fear is driving. the lee suggests a principle, a very simple principle for conservatives to understand. big is bad. across the board, big government sucks. big business sucks. big tech, big hollywood, big universities. any accumulation of power that is centralized is fundamentally dangerous for individual liberty. what is it that the communists want, the communists want control of everything, they want centralized power? how do we ensure freedom? the principles i am talking about were said far more eloquently, far more elegantly, two centuries ago by james madison and federalist tim. james madison talked about factions. that was an old word for special interests. and he said factions if they are able to seize control of government will strip away our liberty. and the genius of our constitution is the checks and balances that divides government, that makes one branch fight with another branch, makes the executive and congress fight, makes congress and the judiciary fight, makes the federal government and the states fight, and what the framers their genius was. the supreme court is called it splitting the atom of sovereignty. and if the factions, if one faction cannot seize control of everything, then they cannot use that power against the people. that principle was true two centuries ago, it is true today. why is our liberty so under assault? because giant corporations, giant tech, giant government, they work together hand in hand. you look at what happened with joe rogan, joe rogan, jens saki. oh come on, jens saki does not get the justin trudeau treatment. all right. you know, peppermint patty deserves some love. jens saki from the white house podium said, billionaires, oh billionaires in silicon valley, please silence that pesky rogan guy. he is a pattern of government asking big tech to silence dissents in canada, the canadian truckers. canadian government says, oh go fund me. billionaires, please silence these pesky truckers by the way. the workers of the world had a revolt and the left is pissed. so what is the answer? the answer is threefold. number one, fight power. fight big government, fight big business, fight big tech, fight big hollywood, fight big universities, fight the centralization of power, break it up, break big tech up into a million little pieces. decentralize. you know, we just said wain loppierre talking about guns. why is it the left when they seize control? they immediately want to take away everyone's guns because then the state has a monopoly on force. if the only people with guns are the jack booted thugs, then liberty is gone. so we need to decentralize, we need to break it apart. one of the reasons why i am so bullish on crypto, on bitcoin, because it is decentralized and not controllable. and let me give a fantastic example. so justin trudeau said, i do not like me some truckers. so we are going to seize your assets. so then the court went to try to seize the crypto that was being given to the truckers. and i do not know how many of you all saw a letter that i actually want to read from. the letter from a company, bitcoin company called nunchuck, here's part of the letter dear ontario superior court of justice. our software is free. we do not collect any user identification information beyond email addresses. we also do not hold any keys. therefore, we cannot freeze our user's accounts. we cannot prevent them from being moved. we do not have the knowledge of, quote, the existence nature value and location of our user's assets. this is by design. please look up how self-custody and private keys work. when the canadian dollar becomes worthless, we will be here to serve you too. that is spectacular. by the way, contrast that to the craving, sniveling response of corporate america. when some whiny snowflake tweets at them, they go, oh my god, i am sorry, i am sorry, i am sorry. like god bless you, say, into the government, go jump in a lake. that is how our country was founded. that is powerful, by the way, that is also why china recently banned bitcoin. because they cannot control it, which is the exact same reason elizabeth warren hates bitcoin. the chinese communist and elizabeth warren, they both want to control you. your assets, your savings, your speech, your life, your children, every decision they want to control. and so we need to break up the means of controlling the citizenry. i want an unruly, uncontrollable american we the people. number two, do not ever apologize to the woke mob. it does not work. they are not engaged in rational discourse. they are not actually offended at whatever idiocy it is they are whining about about that moment. they want to destroy you. they want to silence you. they want to subjugate you. respond with joy. laugh at them. it drives them bananas. okay, our leftist, the least funny people on planet earth. you cannot say that. you cannot do that. no, no, no, i do not like that. i do not like that. what the hell up? it is not a year damn business. if i want to get a vaccine, i will get the vaccine. if i do not want to get the vaccine, i will not get the vaccine. and it is not a year business how i decide for me and my family. that scares them because it is not controllable and the third thing i am going to say is speak out. use your voice. every one of you has a powerful megaphone to the world. speak out and use your voice. two years ago i launched a podcast, verdict with ted cruz. all right, i want to say to everyone here, under 40. please go and subscribe to my podcast. you can get it wherever you get your podcasts. two years ago we were the number one ranked podcast in the world. to everyone over 40. call your kids. call your grandkids. and ask them to subscribe you to the podcast. number two, text the word cruz to the number two four 005. let me give you that again. cruz to two four 005. why is that? because we are using text. we are using the podcast. we are using email. we are using social media. we are using every tool to mobilize and energize a grassroots army because we are taking this country back from the lunatic socialist left that is trying to destroy our freedom. let me say one final thing. in january of 2023, i am looking forward to walking down the hallway in the united states cap. and to bumping into a little man wearing overalls, carrying a screwdriver and coming to change the sign on nancy pelosi's door. and nancy is going to get on her broom. okay, no, that is not fair. she is going to get on her private jets called the uss broom and fly back to california. and we are going to send chuck schumer back to new york city. and then we are going to tell joe biden it is 2025 and he will just wander back to delaware. change is coming. it is powerful. you want to know how powerful? find me one person on planet earth who does not know what let us go branden means. and not just in red states, how many of you saw at the new england patriots game in boston, the entire crowd chanting let us go branden. that is powerful. a wave is coming. we are taking our country back. we are standing up to power. we are defending liberty. we are defending the constitution. we are defending the bill of rights. and together we will save this great nation. god bless you. welcome senator josh hawley. hello, seat back. it is great to see you. it is great to be back here and with you, you know, the last time that we were here together just a year ago, they were trying to censor us, silence us, cancel us, muzzle us. in fact, they had just told me that because i stood up and objected on january 6th that i ought to be run out of the united states senate, i have got news for you. i was not backing down then. i have not changed my mind now. election integrity matters. standing up for the rule of law matters. and our stand on that day in sense is key for the liberty that we are fighting for. i do not know about you, but i thought the biden administration was going to be pretty bad, did not you? but they have turned out even worse than i could possibly have imagined. i mean, just look at what joe biden has tried to do in the space of one short year to this country. he has turned the fbi of the united states on the parents of the united states. can you believe it? treating school board parents at school boards as if they are domestic terrorists, sending fbi agents to go and knock on people's doors if they have the temerity to stand up and say, i do not want my kids to have to be masked in school. i do not want my kids to be taught critical race theory. he is tried to use the instruments of our own government to divide us, to separate us, to turn off speech that he does not want, that he does not like, that he does not approve of. and that is just getting started. look at what he is done on the southern border. he is opened up the southern border and said to every cartel on the north american continent, come on in. the southern border, you know, sometimes we say it is chaos at the southern border, that is not quite right. actually, somebody is in control of the southern border. the problem is, it is the cartels who are in control of the southern border, not the united states, the cartels who are running drugs across our border, who are running children across our border. human trafficking is exploding. and i do not know about you. but in the state of missouri where i am from, we would like to say that we are a border state too, because the drugs that are flooding into our schools, that are flooding into our neighborhoods, that are flooding into every part of the state are coming across that southern border that joe biden has thrown open and has said, come on in. it is chaos on the border. it is the cartel rule of the cartels on the border. it is the use of the fbi against parents and then look at what he did in afghanistan. i have never seen an american president who would leave behind hundreds, if not thousands, of american citizens to the enemy and say that the operation was an extraordinary success. do you remember that? afghanistan was not an extraordinary success. it was an extraordinary failure by joe biden. it was an extraordinary collapse by this administration. it was the worst foreign policy disaster since the vietnam war. 13 american service members, brave marines, other members wearing the uniform were lost in afghanistan guarding abbey gate because joe biden would not order an evacuation when his own military told him to do it. it was days before the terrorist attacks joe biden had not even planned how he was going to get americans out of the country. and yet he would go before the people of the united states and say that the evacuation was an extraordinary success and he was proud of it. that was the day ladies and gentlemen that i called on joe biden to resign. he should have resigned then. he should resign now. he is not fit to be president. he cannot leave this country. he is trying to shove critical race theory down our throats and in every aspect of our government. it is in the military. it is in government training. it is in our universities. all backed now by the power of the biden administration, i have sat in the united states senate and asked nominee after nominee, will you pledge to oppose critical race theory? will you pledge to stop it from being taught, from being promulgated in the united states government? and the answer is no. they are radical on this issue. they believe a critical race theory. they believe that america is systemically racist. they believe that america is systemically broken. they believe that we are a nation of oppressors. well ladies and gentlemen, i have got news for you and for them. we are not a nation of oppressors. we are a nation of liberators. we are proud of our history. we are proud of our heritage and we are going to stand up for it. and now you look at what is happening in ukraine. you talk about weakness on the part of joe biden. he comes to office and what does he do? he shuts down american energy production and green lights, russian energy production. he green lights, putin's pipeline and he shuts down american pipelines. is it any wonder, is it any wonder that vladimir putin feels emboldened to do whatever the heck it is he wants to do? is it any wonder that china feels emboldened to do whatever it is the heck that they want to do? when we have a president who does not believe in american strength, who does not believe in american energy, who does not believe in american jobs and who has no sense of the priorities and challenges that are threatening this country. i have got a suggestion for joe biden tonight. i would just say this, mr. president, have some confidence in the american people. show some strength to the world. open up american energy production. full throttle. open it up right now. put americans back to work. you know, i noticed that red nicks and rough nicks get a lot of bad press these days. and hey, here's the true thing. red nicks and rough nicks are the core, the backbone of the american economy. and it is time to allow the good, strong american worker to go out there and start drilling for oil to start exploring for natural gas to start fracking again. let them do what we do best. show america, show the world the strength of this nation. put america back to work. open up american energy. and i will tell you this. i am not willing to wait around to see what joe biden does. on monday, the united states senate comes back into session. and on monday, i will introduce legislation to open back up american energy production in this country. 100 percent. open it up. put people back to work. get the oil flowing. get the natural gas pumping. get the biofuels going. all of it. we are the number one energy producing nation in the world or we should be. joe biden gave that away. it is time to take it back. and if you want to send a message to vladimir putin, here's a message to send him. we are going to be the ones who supply the oil and gas to the world. we are going to shut down your energy sector and we are going to open ours up like you have never seen it before. that is the message we ought to send. that is a message of american strength. this president, he does not believe in american strength. this president believes that there is something fundamentally wrong with the soul of this nation. and at the end of the day, he is really what we are fighting for, is not it? we are fighting to defend the soul of america. you know? joe biden has spent a year. if you think about what all of his policies put together mean, he has spent a year telling this country that we are broken, that we are backwards, that we are racist, that we are weak. he thinks the soul of america, he thinks the heart of america is warped and wicked. well, i am from the heartland of america. i was born there. i was raised there. i know the heart of this country and it is true and it is good. and on the basis of america's heart, we will rebuild our strength. there is nothing wrong with america. there is something wrong with joe biden. that is what we have to take our stand on. this is the time to rebuild our strength on the principles and fundamentals that we hold most dear. to strengthen our families, to strengthen our neighborhoods, to strengthen our churches, to strengthen our nation. this is a time for american strength. the world needs america's strength. the world needs to see that we are ready to stand strong again. you know, ronald reagan used to say that in the 19th century, we built the greatest industrial economy that the world had ever seen. in the 20th century, we built the greatest technological economy the world had ever seen. and now in the 21st century, we seem to have spent most of it, thanks to our friends on the left, apologizing. and i do not know what in the world we are apologizing for. we have nothing to apologize for as americans. we have everything to be proud of and to stand up for. so here's what i propose we do. i propose that in this critical year in 2022, when we have the opportunity to take back the united states house, to take back the united states senate, that we stand up and say that the fight for america is about the soul of america. and we are going to take our stand on the goodness of america. and we are going to renew america's strength. we are going to open up our energy production. we are going to open up our economy. we are going to bring jobs back to this country. why is it that we should be dependent for our energy, our critical goods on other nations and not just on any other nations, but on our enemies? why is it that joe biden has tried to make us more dependent, has tried to make us subservient to china and russia and iran and opec? why is it that joe biden now has to go to the opec countries and beg them, beg them to increase oil production? i say enough of that. america is the strongest nation in the history of the world and it is time we started acting like it. this is the time. so no matter what, this administration tries to do to divide us. and by the way, that is all they have left. have you noticed that? all they have left is division and accusation. all they have left is the attempt to make us live in fear. that is what they have been trying to do since last january. they have been trying to tell us we have got to live in a state of constant emergency, covid, a constant emergency. january 6th, the constant emergency. they have been saying that we have got to trust the government to tell us what we can do, where we can go, what we can teach our kids, what we can say, and the message is fear, fear, fear, fear. well, i do not know about you, but i am an american. i refuse to live in fear. i refuse to be afraid. i refuse to bow down. i refuse to say the government can tell me what to do. and so here is my hope for 2022. this is going to be the year, my fellow republicans, my fellow conservatives. this is going to be the year that we lead this nation out of fear, that we lead this nation back to strength, that we lead this nation to take a stand on the principles that we hold most dear, that we say there is nothing wrong with america, that america is the hope of the world. it is the future of the world, and it is still even now the last best hope on earth. god bless you. thank you so much for having me. god bless, see you back. thank you so much. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you