i recognize myself for five minutes of question. mr. wilson, serve first of all, let me thank you for your service. you got a tough job. defence of our country, our citizens. you have to play 100% defense. you cannot let them score. anyway, former manor. if i can, let me turn to cyber a little bit. cyber security. question. at what point does the cyber attack on our nation constitute a declaration of war? we recently had an attack on our federal court system. brazen, unbelievable. it is a rhetorical question. i do not think you can answer that. but the point is made, which is cyber is an attack on our nation. and it is a deadly attack in many ways. i presume you are concerned with the increasing cyber attacks, threats from russian, china, and other actors. yes, absolutely. this committee recently considered legislation that requires american companies to open their hardware and software to third parties, which could allow some of these actors, china, russia, and others, to have additional access to us consumer data. does not this pose a cyber security risk? so the cyber threat is a vast and complicated one. the nascar division, we are focused on nation-state type attacks, particularly as you mentioned, china and russia. china actually probably is the most significant actor when it comes to cyber-enabled espionage. it is a challenge for both the government, public sector, and the private sector. and it is one that we are very focused on in the justice department in terms of investigating and prosecuting. we are part of a broad, all of government approach that includes homeland security and the intelligence community. you have essentially said that we are seeing nation-states in their proxies increase. their cyber-enabled means, in a ways that threaten our democracy, and our economic institutions, would not forcing these platforms open, allow the bad actors to have increased access into our systems? i think it is incumbent on the government. that includes the justice department and homeland security as well as intelligence community to work with the private sector in particular, the large technology companies to make sure that we have a joint effort to address these types of issues. these large companies have a competitive edge, a magic potion here to work with you hand in hand to defend our nation from cyber. my experience has been that the large technology companies are very open to working with the government when it comes to improving the nation's cyber-secure. they have a vested interest, a business interest, to make sure they also play 100% defense. i think our interests are aligned in many ways when it comes to cyber security. that is our interest, the interest of the private sector and the government. sir olson, i understand that the executive branch has been reviewing these tech antitrust legislation that i was talking about. you have been part of this review, it is my understanding? sorry, the review of the... the antitrust legislation. yes, sir, absolutely. my division was part of the department's review of that legislation. and we have seen concerns raised by former national security experts on both sides concerning these antitrust bills. is it fair to say that if you have concerns, you will provide this committee with that information at the right time? yes, we have provided a letter from the justice department in support of the legislation. i am prepared to continue to work on that with this committee if there are additional concerns that need to be addressed. but you will bring some of those concerns if they are there to this committee? yes, i continue to work with this committee and others in congress on this issue. i would like to submit a letter with our objections for the record titled open letter from former defense intelligence, homeland security cyber officials calling for national security review of congressional tech legislation without objection. and let me just say that, again, cyber is a new warfare. we are in the state of war in cyber. and i think it is important that your voice be a clear one when it comes to some of this legislation. this legislation primarily applies to american companies yet a lot of the foreign firms huawei, tiktok, many, many others do not seem to fall under their purview of this legislation. and i believe it is important that before we go off and go after our own firms that we make sure that we are not doing unintentional harms to our national defense when it comes to cyber. moderna time, let me say. committee needs to take a moment to address technical issues. committee will suspend.