outside the capitol building, congress members from california, new york, and illinois announced the reintroduction of the renewing immigration provisions of the immigration act from back in 1929. this would provide a pathway to citizenship for millions of undocumented immigrants who were in the u.s. before, and this is key, before the year 2015. joining us now to talk about it is democratic congressman luke careya from santa anna. he serves as ranking member of the house border security subcommittee. he reintroduced that legislation, and he is live in washington tonight. congressman, great to see you. good evening. how you doing today? doing well. if you can explain in the most simple terms, what exactly this immigration bill does? we are trying to simply keep them the american economy as the strongest as it can be. make sure we check on inflation. we need workers. this is about keeping america strong. this immigration bill is as simple as it can get. a two-page bill simply changing the date of what we call the registry law. that was actually written in 1929. everybody talks about all kinds of strange things hidden in bills. what we decided to do was immigration reform by changing a simple date on the registry, which is right now, anybody who came into the united states before 1972, before 1972, can apply for change of status. in a long time, 50 years. what we want to do is change that date to 2015. so anybody that came in before 2015 can apply for change and status. can apply, meaning they still have to go through a rigorous background check. make sure the night criminals, make sure they pay their taxes, follow the law, and then maybe they can apply and actually obtain a change in register in their status. all right. so people who hear this and these people may have gone through the legal immigration process themselves. we know it is a complex process. it is a very lengthy process. they hear this and they say, well, you know what? i had to do this and these individuals will essentially cut the line. what do you say to that? that is absolutely incorrect. a lot of these individuals have been here for 30 years. the problem is there is no line. you cannot get in period. and what we want to do right now is give people a pathway to get in. now remember, this is not just about farm workers today. 50% of farm workers are undocumented. you talk to silicon valley executives need those trained workers as well. so it is not about cutting the line. it is about getting a shot at those that have earned the opportunity to live in the united states legally. 25, 30 years in the us without any opportunity for change of status. that is absolutely wrong and it is un-american. of course, there has not been major immigration reform in decades in this country because the last time we had immigration reform, ronald reagan was president back in the 80s. that is why even though right now we have republican-controlled congress, i am hopeful that republicans like ronald reagan stepped up, will step up today and help us keep the american economy the strongest in the world. yeah, of course, the republican calculus has changed a lot since ronald reagan. it might be difficult for him to get the nomination these days based off of the way the politics has changed. let us talk about another issue that i know you are passionate about. this idea of a family detention for people that are coming across the border, there is been some talk about the biden administration potentially bringing that policy back. i know that is something you are outspoken on. what is your take on all of that? i want to fix the refugee problem. family detentions did not work for obama. they did not work for trump and they are not going to work for the biden administration. what works? ukrainian model. ukrainian refugees were at our border in mexico just a few months ago. they set up a camp. the mexican government set up a camp for those ukrainian refugees. they came in, got themselves checked out physically. title 42 was way for them. they got what is called a parole permit to come into the europe, their way into the united states. today, if you go to tijuana, mexico, there are not any ukrainian refugees. you know why? because now those refugees are coming directly from europe to the united states. that situation, you did not have family detentions. what you had is an orderly system of helping those refugees. we can. yeah, i believe we have a little bit of a hiccup there on your zoom signal, but i think you were saying we can do this. we can do it again. yeah, we can do it again, even if we cannot necessarily get the best zoom signal. so, congressman, thank you so much. we appreciate it. i think we got the key points there. obviously, immigration is such an important and such an issue that arises so much passion and we appreciate you sharing your perspective. we will continue to work for main street and for california. thank you for your time and interest. good to see you.