hey, what is up, it is an episode of watch your strap in. these are not really watch reviews. they are more wristwatch checks, but i will consider them extensions to a watch review if i have one. or these could be, you know, ongoing user experience reviews. these are things that i keep going off the top of my head on a particular watch. but i usually use these videos to show off strap pairings with a particular watch as well. honestly, i think i might have to discontour these like a series review. like of one watch. i just keep throwing them out and i know people that watch review, one just one watch review, but i am probably not going to be making one like that anytime soon. and this is maybe also more for those that are really interested in a watch, a particular watch, and want to just kind of see more of it and, you know, just different lighting, especially different straps. just the possibilities and get some ideas going and maybe help to solidify a potential purchasing decision. you have seen it so many times and so many kind of slight variations of the same watch with the same person that get a good feel for how this might work for somebody. but anyways, this is of course the tag-hoyer formula one. this is the newest version that has been reissued this year, 2025, in 38 millimeters, which is a good upsize to the original, which is 35 millimeters. and there is another improvement. again, there is a very accurate solar quartz moving in here. it is been like plus three for the last. it went up a bit, then went back down, but it is hovering right now after about four or maybe five months at about plus three seconds. so quite good. lume is very good on these as well, although i do wish the hands were a little bit, maybe if they were a little bit larger, they would show up a little bit stronger compared to the hour markers, but in general they still show up. and i can read it just fine and overall the lume is very reactive and very long lasting as well. and it did make some changes to the case besides being upsize, especially the way they did the looks. it was more of a downturn and i think that looks a lot better than the original in my opinion. the original was, because it is 35 millimeters, the looks attended to actually also have this general shape from on top, but they came up more straight out from the side. you have a look at it, you will see what i mean. and they look more like a soap bar, like a small hotel soap bar, if you know what i mean. the kind of shape and the dimensions that give me that kind of feel for some reason. and this does not do that, this looks sweet, especially with the...