a few months ago, as some of you likely know, i made a short documentary all about group b and its rise and fall. briefly at the end, i mentioned group s. i had advised watching the full video to get a proper breakdown of the subject. but in essence, when group b was no longer viable to keep running because of the deaths of both spectators and drivers, feesers shut the whole championship down. the pes pride to this had been planned to be brought in in 1988 to replace group b. homologation rules were lessened where 10 cars were required instead of 20 liking group b, as well as focusing on making it cheaper for manufacturers to showcase innovations. ultimately, however, group s was axed along with its older brother and so it was left in history. but upon the group s rules being written in 1985 albeit in a draft form, a lot of manufacturers jumped on board pretty quickly. they began building prototypes of these group s races, but of course when the championship was terminated, the prototypes became a lot more valuable than what they were originally thought to be. we therefore have a collection of group s rally cars that never truly saw the light of day and are generally overshadowed by their group b cousins. today, let us take a look at these group s cars and how they changed from group b. toyota did have a presence in group b, the celica tct. however, the tct was rear wheel drive, thanks large in parts of the fact that it was introduced in 1983 when it was the norm to build rear wheel drive rally cars. when four wheel drive became the norm in the next few years, the tct faded away and is not remembered that well. so when group s was announced, toyota wanted a fresh start and to turn over a new leaf. enter the toyota mr2 triple 2d. this thing does look pretty similar to the regular counterpart until you take a closer look. for example, the width, which is now much wider to encompass wider tire sizes and for better stability. plus, the iconic pop-up headlights have been replaced with traditional fixed ones, as well as the addition of rally spotlights which both improve aerodynamics. two engines were also theorised to be in the triple 2d, a 2.1 liter 40 gta which was used in the tct and a 2.2 liter group c prototype, which is apparently where the triple 2d name comes from, mr2 2.2 liter 3.2s. power ranges were supposedly between 600 brake horsepower and 750 brake horsepower, and the 750 kilogram weight would have made the triple 2 a nippy little monster. speaking of monster, this prototype was named the black monster, based on the fact that the black semicol's paint made the color very fierce and very angular. 11 were reportedly built, but with crash tests and other events taking their course, only three remained to day, two black and one white, and tech would care of them. the ford rs200s is a special story that cannot never officially exist, while plans went fairly far with its design, ford decided not to build any prototype until later in development, which was probably a good thing to retrospect. other than that, we know it was to feature a brand new gearbox, lighter bodywork, remodeled intercooler and most jarringly, the removal of the protruding air duct from the roof of the car to improve aerodynamics. however, two decades after the demise of group s, john wheeler, a cheap designer of the original rs200 and the rs200s, decided to bring the design to life with a specially built replica. first, he bought a moderately damaged rally cross-hours 200 and replaced the bent rear end to have it be returned to better condition. then work was done to convert the original to the s model, a new wing was added and all the original changes were put into effect. plus the traditional bdt engine was replaced with a yb engine, which powered the ford s-corp cosworth for a few years in the 1990s, it could supposedly do 485p at cost power and the s was said to be around 90kg lighter than the original. while not completely faithful to the original design, as changes were seen here and there, this is no frankenstein's monster. persia was one of the most successful competitors in group b, so it was a given that they would want a competing group s. persia was originally going to go with something along the lines of what ford did, as they were originally going to simply upgrade their successful 2 or 5. however, the 2 or 5 had a shorter wheelbase than what persia wanted and even with experimentation on a elongated wheelbase, they could not get the 2 or 5 to work under this new structure. so they instead decided to take their brand new 4 or 5, which was released as a standard road going car in 1987. as well as having much better dimensions for what persia wanted, building a rally version would make for some effective marketing. the team then adapted the 2 or 5 chassis and drivetrain for the new length and the 4 or 5 prototype was born. as well as weighing in near 880kg, it also allowed for a larger fuel tank to be fitted. the 4 or 5 was much more versatile, the engine was also a credit to a 1.9l. however, unlike other group s prototypes which met the end of their official careers along with the championship, the 4 or 5 t16 actually went on to compete in the pike's peacons and national hill climb and managed a victory. it also meant multiple appearances in heavily modified forms in rally-ready events, with much larger reinforced suspension and a larger fuel tank. it managed to deliver persia 2 wins in 1989 and 1990 in the paris de car rally. persia was able to keep their t16 line of races in a competitive form for almost a decade, which is not too bad. the 130lr was a moderately successful entry into group b from scoda. scoda was intent on improving it and when group s was announced scoda only quickened their pace. originally however, scoda planned to build a specially modified version of the upcoming scoda favourite tour, however you pronounce it. but when the production of the favourite was delayed, the team decided to refocus their efforts onto the already successful 130, now known as the 130lr reaver. why did body kits and tyres were fitted, rear ducts were added for better rear ventilation, rear spoiler became molded into the body, the bonnet was fitted with an air vent to keep the ready at a cool and a lot of other things were added. alterations were also made to the position of certain elements in the car to help balance out the drastic 40-60 weight ratio in the back of the car. the 1.2-litre engine was also a step up and the 850kg weight was a huge improvement. the car was first tested here in july of 1986 and the car then did some races here and thereafter group s was cancelled, being passed between different owners over the years. multiple replicas of the evo have been built but other than that, not much is known. while these prototype are all cool in their own right, there are two specific group s cars that have become truly iconic, even outside of group s. the first of which is the audi sport quattro rs-002. this car should never have truly existed. the prototype was actually built in secrecy without the knowledge of higher ups and even the chairman of audi. in short, a lot of the team knew that the front engine doubly quattro would not be able to survive for long. while it was great on fast-straight and corners, slower corners became a problem thanks to the understeer due to the large part of the engine being mounted over the front axle. mid-engined was the way to go, so they began building these prototype in complete secrecy and test runs were planned to be taken on dirt roads near salzburg in austria, but when the press were tipped off, audi ran for the border to find somewhere else to test the car. compositely, audi's star-racer walter rol could tell almost immediately that the mid-engined quattro is much faster than the old one. few pictures remained of this secret prototype. the most notable thing on the car however is the telltale ducts added to the side, but the backlash meant that the mid-engined project had to be dismantled pretty quickly. but another prototype had been made. this one looked radically different to the traditional quattro design and three were produced. while one was destroyed in another would remain on static display in the museum, one is unaccounted for which, from what i can gather, means that there is still one roaming in the wild. this prototype had very smooth styling and a freakishly large wing, and to many look more like a group c-carber. that is not a bad thing. then for the 30th anniversary of the final year of group b, the rs-002 was restored and has since been touring, with rol occasionally taking the wheel of the car he tested all those years ago. then there is what is considered the poster child for group s, the lancia ecv and all its variants. even before group b was banned, the delta was undergoing major improvements to make it more competitively viable, upgrading the reliability and performance of the gearbox and engine, which we built in the front suspension, shifting the centre of weight were all things on the list, but most importantly was the improvement of the aerodynamics, a particular fault of the original s4. sidescurses and a retractable flap on the front bumper were considered to be used, but when group b was cancelled, the project, which was codenamed seo-4r, was cancelled. but with the prospect of group s, a new project was started called ecv, which stands for experimental composite vehicle, a lot of the technical innovations from the previous project were brought over, and the resulting car was shown off at the 1986 belonio motor show. because of the 10 car requirement for homologation, lancia was able to include some expensive innovations, with a large part of the body being constructed after carbon fibre. the chassis for example also made a large part out of carbon fibre, was 20% lighter than the steel chassis from the s4, while being just as stable. it even supposedly used computer assisted design in its conception, a brand new technology which had only ever been seen in formula 1 up to this point. the engine also saw some relative changes, with a design that had the turbochargers turn off at different speeds. so at low speeds only one turbo would be functional, but as the speed rose the second turbo would slowly kick in. this meant the engine would work well at low rev ranges, and could do 600 brake horsepower. ecv also featured the aerodynamics from the seo 4r, with side skirts, a rear diffuser, single head lights, a roof spoiler and side scoops arm making an appearance. the project was well liked and stayed pretty close to the original vision of group s, a car that would show off the groundbreaking innovations in lightweight chassis and power. and that is not all however, we have the ecv too. it had the same chassis and engine as the first ecv, but the body was wildly different, like what the rs-002 was to the original mid-engine quattro. straying away from the sharp almost boxy designs of recent lancia cars, the body featured a lot of curves and was much more compact. while they were revolutionary in the original car, when the second turbo kicked in, the car had a huge boost of power, which was supposedly uncontrollable, so the ecv2 had smaller turbos. however, due to the ecv2 having the same chassis and engine of the original, and to save cost by not building more, the first ecv had to be dismantled in order to build the ecv2. but on the flip side, a replica of the first ecv was built in 2010 using a standard lancia beltress for stradale, and now the two ecv brothers stand proud as a monument to group s. i could go on. there are multitude of other group s prototypes that i have not covered, such as the mazda rx-7s, the selti-bitha bi-motor and the opel cadet e4s. if you would like me to cover these cars, i would be happy to make part two, but to think the cars i covered today were the foundation blocks of group s and what it could have been. lightware, more powerful and generally some of the best looking cars of the decade, there is no better place to look for crazy cars than the world of the group s prototype. thanks for watching. i would also like to give my thanks to the group b shrine, a website dedicated to uncovering all of the details out group b and group s. most if not all of the info presented here today in this video were from them. so if you would like to learn more about any specific car you have seen in this video, or anything else on the subject, be sure to check them out. thanks again.