a wave of disappointment. one of president donald trump's most loyal voting blocks, cuban and venezuelan immigrants. now, speaking out in miami, the republican stronghold, as the recent wave of deportations hits home, and the trump administration moved to end temporary legal status or tps for more than 500,000 people who arrived during the biden administration. alina gondez says she came here from cuba on humanitarian parole in 2023. her husband, arielara, crossed the border with mexico twice, once in 2019 when he was detained and deported, and then again in 2022. six weeks ago, he was taken into custody at his residency hearing. kaya, he was given an appointment to go to ice. you told him before he left for that appointment, you do not have anything to worry about. instead, he was transferred to texas, where we spoke to him from his detention center. what have you done? arielara, what do you think is happening in this country? in this moment, the situation is, how do you feel about everything that is happening right now in this country with the deportations? i said all the things i do not know. you do not understand how this could happen. what did you think was going to happen when trump won? you are saying you believed the president when he said he was going to deport criminals? now, alina is left behind with her daughter, seven-month-old son, and ariel's 70-year-old grandmother, who has been a u.s. citizen for years. they are single-bore with me. together, facing a reality, they never imagined. your whole family voted for trump. lo apoyaba. atron, during his campaign, did you support him? no, i am just outside of it. you cannot vote. but you feel disappointed, deceived, enganyada. it is a concern democratic strategist are capitalizing on, with billboards like these calling republican lawmakers traders. still, here in florida, trump won almost 70 percent of the cuban-american vote in 2024, along with 61 percent of deraille, home to the largest venezuelan-american population in the u.s. they used us. adelis ferro is the co-founder and executive director of the venezuelan-american caucus. how is the venezuelan community feeling right now, especially in the context of these deportations? desperate, terrified. there are people with mental health issues. there are people with panic attacks and sciatia attacks. they rather to die than go back to venezuela and then have to stop taking their lives. i have those messages because the situation here is so bad. they are so bad at taking their own lives. yes, then go back to venezuela. the ripple effects affecting families and businesses. this, venezuelan business owner who asked us not to use his name to protect his business and fellow owners, said the political instability has led to a 20 percent drop in revenue. it is affected your clients as well as the people who work here. i understand that there are a lot of people who have invested in business here. a lot of people have already invested in businesses here and they have stopped because they just do not know what the future brings. still experts say the current turmoil may not hurt the republican party. all this stuff done in the first 200 days of the administration. they have a long road ahead before the midterms. do you think that trump will pay a political price? i am not sure that trump or the republican party as an institution is going to suffer a great deal unless the democrats can muster an opposition that is a compelling vision as to how things would be done differently. working at ferd nbc news. we thank you for watching and remember stay updated on breaking news and top stories on the nbc news app or watch live on our youtube channel.