the first time i stood on this property was to learn after my son had cancer, that i went to school a thousand feet from an atomic bomb plant. and then they left it here for 20 years before they ever came back to consider cleaning it up. there was also a quarry down the street and it took waste by train through north county and it brought it all the way down from oppenheimers first plant. for the manhattan project and it shrunked it without cover next to children and families and schools. but that was not enough. they hired people to then take the debris and scatter it across north county. and i will let people talk to you about that. but while we are heat, why, why we chose this location is because our region has been so desensitized to the insanity that has happened to us. our region was number one in the world in world war ii for bombs, for ammunition and we started the manhattan project. but we still do not have a cleanup site anywhere in this region including this one. it is a contained site but it is not cleaned. and i just learned two weeks ago that missouri dnr does not agree with the department of energy and believes that in fact they are missing the goals over the last 30 years that they have tried to clean our groundwater. for seven to eight years when i found this out, i would talk to anybody i could but i always had to start with the sentence. i am going to sound crazy. so did every one of these moms with injured family members and trust me and your family members are in this crowd. we had 117 people come to the capitol to gain the attention of missouri. and i got to tell you because of the journalists dropping these documents that were delivered and finding out for us that our federal government knew this 1949. and never even told anybody in the public for almost 50 years later that you guys sharing it with the public was huge. we already got the support of missouri and now today my friends we have to get the support of the rest of the country because for the first time ever i woke up this morning not feeling crazy because our senator went out immediately on the senate floor and demanded action the first time an elected official is ever acted on my behalf on third behalf. and it means something and there is going to be a lot of need for prayer because as people learn what happened to him what happens is they call me every two weeks i get a call from a mom of a child that has brain cancer. i get a friend that has filed a cancer and they ask me could this have happened. it is not our job to prove to our federal government that the atomic bomb kills people but every time i had to tell them that it was i was told to commission my own scientific study. i thank you all for being here but say some prayers at in the end we are going to have to gather the people that bought into the lies in the nonsense because they are going to have to be warriors with us. this legislation is going to be a big uphill climb and we need every one of you you are going to have to be leaders you are going to have to reach out to people you are going to have to show them how to get involved. and i would like to introduce dawn and karen and kristen because they are going to take over from here because they have had our backs the whole time in this community. thank you representative burns. my name is karen nicole i am the co-founder of justmom's stl. this is dawn chapman she is also a co-founder of justmom's stl. i am the creator of the west lake landfill facebook group which has over 20,000 members. i am also the chair of the west lake landfill community advisory group. i would like to thank state representative push the burns, doug clemens and rich west for hosting this press conference today. i would also like to thank the staff for the work they have done on this issue. in regards to the 15,000 documents that dawn and i have read every single page of. first and foremost our gratitude goes to k dry. k is a big reason why we are standing here today. dawn and i are an extension of the decades of work that k put in long before us. k is the reason these documents exist. she trusted us enough to read them and get them out to all of you. for that and her legacy we will never we will forever be grateful. i grew up a half mile downwind from wadi avenue. in a neighborhood where the creek was part of our neighborhood. and there was a park in our neighborhood, st. st. st. park. some of you may be familiar as that was a park the army corps cleaned up in 2015. in 2012 i learned about this issue. my parents had no idea that they moved their family into a neighborhood that was contaminated with radioactive waste from the manhattan project. in 2015 we learned that the park that i played in almost daily as a child was contaminated with radioactive material. we were told it was all subsurface, it was under the ground. we did not need to be worried about it because it was all six inches in below. we believed that until about a year ago when we found some documents that told us otherwise. these materials were on the surface. in 2015 when they decided to do the cleanup they were cleaning up radioactive materials that were on the surface. where kids have been playing and parents have been walking their dogs and their children hanging out up until 2015. you may hear the army corps say it is safe in its configuration. there is no immediate risk. they have been saying that since the 50s. is that the truth? are we learning differently from the documents? from a 1949 document where they were concerned about the workers cleaning up barrels that were next to the creek because it was so dangerous. they could not allow that to happen. but they allowed it to go into the creek. let us just let it flow into the creek. it will be okay. so we will no longer accept those two statements. it is not safe in its configuration. it is not safe covered by a little grass and leaves. that is not safe. and when does it become an immediate risk? i think it became an immediate risk in the 40s and the 50s and 60s and 70s. we also hear it is historical. what is the definition of historical? because in 2015, when we knew about the issue, i do not think that is historical. that is not historical. the archdiocese property in forcent still has radioactive materials on the surface. they have not cleaned that property. it is not fenced off. there are no warning signs. it still sits there today. i am sick. i have several autoimmune diseases. my children have suffered. my five-year-old granddaughter was born with a mass on her ovary that had to be removed when she was three weeks old. we have sat in meetings where the agencies promised that we are currently being exposed to anything harmful. have they read their own documents? no. because these documents are the facts. maybe it should be mandatory of every employee that works on the manhattan project to read these documents. my sister texted me last night. she is 50. the document that we read that said in 1984, they knew the 28 tons of soil was going into the creek and contaminated soil in 1984. my sister texted me and said, in 1984, i was rushed to the hospital for my appendix. it was not my appendix. although she may have had appendix cancer because that was not tested back then. but come to find out that both of her ovaries at 11 years old were covered with cysts. that was unheard of back then. girls did not go to the ob at 11 years old. and come to find out that she was not the only one in our neighborhood that were covered with cysts. there were nine-year-olds. i want to thank the senator for being here for always standing in our corner. don and i have known him personally long before he became the senator. and i am going to pass this over to don to let her talk about the documents a little bit and talk about the senator and his amazing efforts in this issue. first of all, i want to apologize because i am extremely emotional. these documents are hard. and for those that have let me call you crying, thank you. because i needed it this morning because i see people in this audience right now from my community that are hurting. and that might not be here in six months. so it is very difficult. and i see holes in this audience where people should be who are not. and i know why. i also want to thank some of the state representatives real quick. i see you. i see you. have always been here. not everybody that fights this battle stands in front of a podium and does it publicly. and that is very important. the other thing i want to do is thank the press real quick. i will get on to the congressional offices in the us senator in a minute, but press what you did with these documents. i have no idea how hard karen and i had to pray. what to do was 15,000 pages the world had never seen. and we trusted the missouri independent alison kite. alison, i do not even know what to say and muk rock and the ap press. we had lots of meetings with them, but the one thing we asked and the one thing they stayed true to, just like you all, we did not read their story until it was published. 6 a.m. we read it just like you did. because we wanted them to do what we did and read them independently and make their own decision. this is their federal government too. that did this to them. and they had a right to read them. and i just them like human beings and write the truth. and we did not in any way want to influence that. and that was hard. let me tell you. these 15,000 documents, they are on a thumb drive. and we are doing everything we can to get them out to the public. these were through a freedom of information at request and maybe long to you. but i have to tell you, we read through, we highlighted them during covid. we did it because during covid nobody knew if they would be alive in six months. and we could not be the only ones in the world that had read these. but i got to tell you even looking over some of them yesterday and today they are hard. my son, my family, my friends. but they have time stamps on the top of them. and because we have been doing this so long, i know where those people were. some of this was during the summer in north korea. those kids were out there. all they had to do was reach out and say no, no, put a sign up. there is still no signs. so i am going to turn it over because we need your help. we need your help. and for once in our material, i am not going to call anything but a miracle because i believe that is what this is. we have a path forward to fix it to get st. louis cleaned up and to help these people that have been exposed and to make this right. and i wish to god your government would have come up on it on its own. but it did not. so i am very thankful for these few people that are standing next to me in their offices because let me tell you they have been there the whole time. i am going to introduce you as senator josh holly, but i wanted you to know i know him as josh. and he was with us when he was attorney general. and i got to tell you being two moms, being moms, we went down to jeff city. there were a lot of times we met with you personally and i remember one time i had to bring my little girl because i could not afford a babysitter. and his office was just so kind about it and you hugged her and you know you never made us feel ashamed. you understood what we were doing and that we were battling. and you had our back as his commerce woman, corey bush, before these documents came out. and we had our back as attorney general before you had. and we thank you so i am going to enter the clinic. oh, yes, we have a clinic in our community right now that offers free screenings for people that have been exposed within four miles. we will hand that out to you. we are hoping to expand it. it is because of us, senator josh holly when he was attorney general and that settlement that that is in place. so for the representatives who are going to be getting phone calls, we have a place to send people for blood work now. and let me tell you. thank you senator. thank you so much. thank you. thank you. i would say it is a privilege to be here. but the truth is that we should not have to be here at all. we are here, let us be very clear. we are here because for 75 years now, three quarters of a century. the federal government has poisoned the water, the soil, and the air of this community and has lied about it. over and over and over. they have lied about it. they have lied to every member of this community. and now we know the truth because of the bravery of these women behind me and their tenacity over years and years and years. and don is not exaggerating when she says they were treated like they were crazy. i saw with my own eyes. people said, oh, they are just activists. oh, they are just, you know, they are all worked out. they do not know. those are the people who were not from here who did not live in this community. listen, earlier today, i was just a janna elementary. i was there. i went myself because i just wanted to see it. i did not want other people hanging around and telling me i could not walk. i went to see if that building it is empty. it is derelict. and right next to it is cold water creek, which we now know has been contaminated with radioactive waste for 60, 70 years since they allowed in 1949 since they set those steel drums out there with radioactive contamination and watched it wash right into that stream. generations of kids who have gone to that school. generations of st. louis and st. charles residents who have grown up around that creek and then moved out. they have been exposed. they have been poisoned. they have had their health and their lives robbed from them. and it is time to tell the truth. and the truth is this is that if the federal government created this disaster and they did, the federal government should clean it up. yeah. and you should have had to wait three quarters of the street street food. and if i am sorry to the news guys, i am pounding the podium as i want to do and i am moving your microphones around. i am just getting warmed up. if the federal government has poisoned the air and the water and the soil that has made so many people sick, there is a simple and just solution. the federal government should pay the medical bills of every person who has been 60,000. everyone. this is not hard. it is not like it is complicated. you know, i think of what you have been through in this community just in the last year, the department of energy. here we are at the department of energy installation. in the last year alone, the department of energy has said there is nothing they can do. they said it is the army course fall. they will not answer my letters. they will not respond to my treaties. how much do you all feel who have lived here and lived through this for years and decades and had generations of family members who have been sick and ill and died? and yet your own government will not respond to you. the army corps. if you ask the army corps, when are you going to clean up janna? when are you going to clean up cold water creek? when are you going to clean up west lake landfill? they say, oh, there is not a problem. go talk to the department of energy. it will be done in a couple of decades. well, i tell you what, you all have had enough of it. i have had enough of it. it is time to put a stop to this. and here's how we fix it. it is time for the federal government to authorize a fund to pay for the medical bills of every person who has gotten sick because of their negligence. it is that simple. this is not hard. it is simple. so i will introduce legislation on the floor of the senate to provide funding for every member of this community. i just like to know it is been done before. the federal government has done this before for other victims of their nuclear program. and i will tell you something else that i am tired of hearing. i am tired of hearing from the department of energy in the army corps and this government and this administration that we just do not have the resources necessary to do any more testing or to do anything for these people. do you know what? we seem to have unlimited source of money to buy and sell weapons to other countries' wars. but we cannot do anything for anybody here. why is it that we can spend hundreds of billions of dollars on wars overseas that right here in this community, oh no, we just cannot let the finger. we are just too busy. we just have too much to do. right to somebody else. so i would just say this. i would say to the department of energy secretary granholm whom i have spoken with on this issue. come here. yes. this is your site. come here. i would be happy to show you myself. i bet don and karen would. i bet the members of this community. if you want to eliminate any doubt, come with me to cold water creek. we will go ourselves. we will go right down to the creek bank. i was just there this morning. i will take you there. i would say the same thing to the head of the army corps. i would say the same thing to the president. this is your government, mr. president. come here to st. louis and st. charles. come here to this reason. come talk with these people and see what they have had to endure for 75 long years. i do not know how long it will take us to get this bill through the senate. the senate unanimously passed legislation to clean up janna or rebuild it just a couple of months ago. that is a good first step, but it is not enough. now we have got to do more. now we have got to put in place this fund to make whole every person who has been ill. and who has suffered any kind of any kind of negative consequence from this. and i will tell you, as long as it takes, as long as i am there to do it, i will fight for this in the united states senate. i will go to the floor as long as it takes. i will hold up nominations as long as it takes. i will interrupt hearings as long as it takes until we get justice. i will just close with this. we are really not here today for a press conference. we are really here today for a rally for justice. this is about basic justice for this community. this is not a handout. this is not the people of st. louis and st. charles saying we want a handout. this is the people of st. louis and st. charles saying we want some justice. you are badly done by your government asked you to bear the brunt of a nuclear program that they never owned up to and it is effects. and now it is time that they gave you some basic justice for what they have done. and we will stand together and fight for it as long as it takes until we get that justice. thank you so much for having me. next up i would like to introduce danielle sprely from congresswoman cory bush's office. when i was danielle sprely and i am the outreach director for congresswoman cory bush, she is so sorry she cannot make it here today as she has to be a dc provoked on the nva. she asked me to read this statement. this report confirms will be in the community of known for decades that for the past 75 years the federal government actively and knowingly treated st. louis and surrounding areas as a dumping ground for harmful and toxic radioactive waste. for years the federal government and multiple other responsible parties continue to gaslight us and downplay the serious and often deadly health hazards that this waste carried. the federal government must not continue to allow our communities to further be further collateral damage. they must not only apologize for this cruel act of negligence but they are responsible for cleaning up this mess. since my first day in office i have been committed to holding them accountable and to pushing for immediate and swift action. i will continue partnering with local advocates, lawmakers and impacted community members on legislative solutions including an upcoming bill which would provide compensation to residents harmed by the manhattan project waste and assess the many chronic health conditions that are likely to result from this government. we have also actively been working with the epa and army corps to put up signs and food water creek. no more lives can be taken. before i introduce the next representatives who have also been a huge part of this for many for decades. i want to say that the community stands by our united states senator and our u.s. congresswoman. we want these sites cleaned up swiftly. we want real clean up stand. we want the most protected levels used. we want it done within five years if possible engineering wise. i want the department of energy to put the bill for every site. we want them to pay for it out of the touch of the walls which is not congressional appropriate. we want them to use their fund that they already have an existence. it is the fund they built this building about a million dollar building with. they can do it. they have done it before. they are doing it now. we want them to do it going forward. next i will introduce alex roshak. i would like jay ashkronk for our secretary of state to come and address you. i am not here because i am secretary of state. i am here because these women are doing what the elected officials of this state and of this country should have done decades ago. i do not have anything to do with remediation of superfund sites or radioactive waste. but i have seen what is happened when i was going to the west lake landfill meetings back when i lived in st. louis. i just saw that the state is not doing what it should do. so i said at the very least i am going to be there so you know that there is someone at the state level regardless of whether it is in his job description or not. we are going to stand up for the people of this state who is going to do everything i can to support our federal feeders, the senator and the congresswoman who could not be here but doing it because together we have got to put a stop to this. this is not republican. this is democrat. this is about the people of this state and every one of us has seen some super build it is been passed and they said it is for the children and it was not. and children are dying and have died because the federal government has turned the blind eye and i will do everything i can to my power to make sure that they are held accountable to that. and as long as i am elected official in this state i will make sure the state is as it stands up and does everything we can to support individuals like this and thank them all of you because this is happening. no offense to the senator. no offense to the congresswoman. this is happening because of good people that got involved that were told no and would not take no for an answer. and this state is going to back up. thank you very much. hello everyone. members of the press. thank you very much. thank you for being here friends and allies. i see out in the out of the crowd. just like john said there is a lot of us that are no longer here today. my name is kristen kalluso. i am a community outreach specialist from missouri coalition for the environment. i have been working on this issue very closely for the last 10 years. first alongside just mom's stl and last year. i took this position with the coalition for the environment. i will say that one thing that we set out to do here was to inform the residents that are living alongside this because in the last 10 years in our efforts we find that we come across people that say what? i do not i have never heard of coldwater creek the army corps of engineers. i do not know who you are talking about. in fact this last summer we went out and we hit over a thousand homes passing out life saving information at least what we believe is life saving information. the agency for toxic substance and disease registry came out in 2019 with a health assessment on the area and they noted that people living along the creek have an increased risk of developing cancers that are associated with radiation exposure. unfortunately they came out with a list of 19 different recommendations that never left their office it seems like. we took it upon ourselves the print this information and we took it door to door and i want you to know the pain that i felt having to walk up to somebody who was literally digging in their yard. excuse me and give them a piece of paper from the federal government that says you should not be digging in your yard. it is so heartbreaking to come across people that literally now we know because of foia information because of us reaching out with ashley bernof from janet elementary and breaking that story of the contamination. we now know a lot of the areas where there is no contamination where the army corps is known this contamination has been since 2013, 14, 15 and it still sits out there on the surface. i came across a woman as i knocked on her door who at first she said i do not want any. i do not want to know what you got out on what you are selling and i said are you sure madam it is about the creek. i got halfway down her driveway and she stopped me and she said wait a second i do actually want to know what is going on in the creek behind my yard. she said i have lived here for over two years and i have never even heard of the army corps. i never even knew that there was radiation. this last a couple months ago we just got some documents with some maps. she literally has radiation in her backyard and she has no idea. i like to think that because of us we are out here making a difference and i hope that this summer we are going to keep out there knocking doors and we are going to keep on until everybody living next to us knows how to protect themselves and knows how to advocate for themselves and i ask everybody here. everybody is holding this name, joining us. you can find any information you need on our website, this missouri coalition for the environment. find me here today please because we need your help. i also want to say before i go this is very personal for me. i am in a long time north county resident. i lived near boone creek. i lived near west lake landfield. my family grew up just downwind of ladi avenue. i gave fruit from my grandmother's garden in 2012 in the 11 month period. i had a total hysterectomy due to masses on my ovaries. i had an adrenal gland removed due to a tumor. i had thyroid cancer. i had a gall bladder removed and then within the next year they found a tumor on my right adrenal gland remaining adrenal gland. and unfortunately i am still living with the consequences of all of these things. i know the burden that we are asked, i should even say ask, that we were forced to bear here. and i will do everything i can in my power until my last breath to make sure we are whole and that we are compensated and that we are restored. our homeland is given back to us. we stepped up to save the nation and it is time the nation to step up to save us. i am a state representative of doug clemens, the 72nd district. i was drug-alonged to a public meeting when i was 13 years old and k-dry sat down next to me and asked me where i lived. and then she said, have you heard of cold water creek? i said, yeah, that is in my backyard and i play in it all the time. she said, oh no, honey. and that is how i found out about where i lived. i attended my first public meeting with the army corps of engineers at the age of 19 that was 36 years ago. i have seen so many faces in my life disappear because of this. i have seen so many families crumble and struggle because of this. because it is not just you get sick. these are good working folks. middle class we call them. and if you have brain cancer, guess what? you are not working. if you have an autoimmune, guess what? you are not working. households families crumble. our whole region is injured by this psychologically, emotionally, physically. we picked this site today on purpose. now those 15,000 pages of documents you all have. there is a memo in there between department of defense and the atomic energy commission discussing the location of the new processing plant. and they selected it to be placed next to the high school on purpose. they did that because they thought our enemies would never think we put a processing plant next to children. they thought we would never endanger the lives of our children to build a weapon. they were wrong. we did it. and we live with the consequences today. 81 years since this has been released in our environment. 81 years. we have documents showing that they knew it was getting out in 1949. the meetings i have sat through, the things i have endured over these years. and i want to say something real quick. can all of my elected officials in the crowd right here, all of them? we please raise your hands right now. i want you to look around. the elected officials were lied to by these agencies the same as the general populace. those of us that have gone through the papers, those of us that have read, done our homework, we are here because we know exactly what this situation is, despite what they have told us for years and years and years. the truth is, we are in danger today. the truth is, this is in people's backyards today. the truth is, this is in our schools, our workplaces, our homes. it is in the dust and the addicts. we let it get out. they let it get out. it is the department of energy's waste and they did not take care of it properly. we can follow their own regulations. i want to thank our federal electives, our senator. thank you for being here, josh. i appreciate you. i want to thank cory bush's office. and i want to thank the members of the press who did all this late work on these documents. there is so much to pour through. the truth is in the pudding. when you have a conversation with somebody in a microphone and an audience, they can say whatever they want. but scientific exams, their own data, their own internal memos, where they know. they know. and they go to bed at night knowing that they are poisoning people in my community. i will never stop on this issue ever. next up, we are going to have state representative richard west. and he will be our last speaker. and then we will take june. i want to start by saying thank you for everybody coming out here today. press. this is a huge moment for me. this is my district. i represent. i proudly represent the people of this district. i am new to this fight. my family was touched by this issue over the last two years. so we have had some deaths, some severe illnesses. and i attributed directly to the waters that have been pulled from the well. but there is so much more than that. but what i really want people here to realize is if you look at your speakers that are up here today and you look at the people that are urging you to pay attention, this is a bipartisan effort. this is at one side or the other. this is a region. we have started in st. louis, st. louis county and into st. charles county. and he even goes into warren county as well. this is a huge regional issue that we have to deal with on a regional basis. and i am glad to see everybody come together. i am glad to see all the folks on all the sides working together on this issue because that is a very important thing for people to pay attention to. just in my district alone, which represents southern st. charles county, we have a myriad of cancers. i represent the francis hall high school right here, which is a thousand feet away. you know, the federal government once you believe that they cleaned up the 17 hundred, 1700 acre site and pulled it all in this rock pile here. and it is all saved now. think about that for a minute. all of it is buried up underneath there. no, what they did was they took out the top soil, then they then they they buried it over with the soil and said, hey, it is clean. go ahead. have a party on it, just like they did to the folks in north county. now they cannot even dig in their own yards. and we are talking about bringing people here to build more houses on top of this. so we are going to have hazelwood and north county all over again, where people cannot even dig in their yard because if you dig six inches down, you are in contaminated soil. we need the truth. we need transparency. we need the help of the public. we need the help of the press. and most certainly we need the help of our elected officials in dc because i have to hand out to them that they work hard. it is great. great that they have come up forward and we are now starting to address these issues. so again, thank you for coming out to my district today. before you leave, just take a look behind me here and take into account, you know, what they say is cleaned up. and let us move forward from here. thank you very much. thank you. senator holly. yes. don and hearing and several state representatives have called for attorney general bailey to take action on this issue as a former attorney general. do you have any thoughts on what he can do? i would just encourage all of our elected officials in the state. i want to thank again all of the members of the legislature who are here, the secretary of state who is here to do whatever they can. i do not know the answer to your question is i do not know without looking myself at the statutes, but i hope he would be aggressive. i mean, i hope he would be aggressive and i can just tell you we are going to be aggressive in washington, dc. and i hope that for the folks who are here, i am going to need your help on dc. they may need to see you. they may need to see your faces. we may need to sit you in the gallery of the united states senate. and as we vote, we may need to ask them to look up and say, are you going to tell these people now? we will be there. do you agree with donald lee? yes, madam. i will come back here. i am going to start to proud of you. yes, madam. first, i want to take away. i have met don and the first thing that they will be interested to me as a new york candidate, and our district's touch was about this issue. and we did not pay dry, certainly a right of passage for those who was running in this place. so the latin side of the reference is in my district. i am going to be there to a little bit of a house, el patti court in hayeswood. i cannot see that area. my constituency in el patti is in berkeley. live in that area. killock and zuri is also in that area. so there is plenty of attack in that area. if that being said, yes, canada is sitting on a bunch of toxic waste. but my concern, not just as a parent or as a legislator, but as an auditor teacher. and kids, i am sure, are many more schools that have toxic places to be here. going forward on the federal level, and i am, yes, for everything you said, what i can appreciate is beyond the twitter bars where people were kind of upset that my congresswoman was working with you for all of the political brand standing and slam dunk. if you are going to do something, bring something home, but i hope it is in. so i appreciate all that you all are doing here. but i do have some signs about others. yes, madam, you should. i am sure they have all been here. absolutely. we should test them all. all of them. all right. yes. i am a person. yes. i have to visit. yes. those of us with autoimmune disorders, we do have to work. imagine and do not meet her talking right together where we keep going. and you are told which you think is considered. i think. well, it is the white black. you know, the largest concentration of black women in the state of missouri is northland and new york. i have to figure it out. it is the genetic makeup. that is cancer. we are invited to these meetings. lord bless the look and diamonds. if they did not tell us, we would know. it is hot. you know, when all of our family members, i am a person living in this. it is my sister behind you, representative regent mcclark has to buy breast cancer several times. having grown up in florida, we need help in northland who is down. your office has always been very responsible to meet some post-alcoholic issues to everything else. and i am happy to hear you speak to the project that you need to develop our school. we do everywhere. i can do that. thank you. going to poland, we will say we need a testimony. i have demanded that the army corps testimony. and they have said no to me, by the way, because we do not need any further. this is the same line. i am glad that this. i am glad the media is here to hear this. the same line you have been told for years, they have been telling me, oh, we have tested it already. we do not need to do any more. they told me the janus fine. that is still, members of press, that is still their line. is that janus fine? there is nothing wrong with janus. it is all in our heads. and they have said for that reason, we do not need to test anymore. we need to test every property, every school building, all in the area. all of them. why not? this is what the federal government is there for. this is not an act of nature. this did not just happen. it is not a storm. the federal government's negligence led to this. they need to clean it up. all of it. all of it. yeah, absolutely. yeah. the question is for those of you who did not hear, why would we have the army corps do the testing when they are the ones who have been hiding this? it is a great question. under federal law, they are the ones with the jurisdiction to do it. is the answer now? what i have tried to do, and congresswoman bush has introduced the same legislation with me on the house side. what i have tried to do is in our legislation about janus, we just order it done, and we order the department of energy and the army corps to do it. and we do not leave it to do they want to. we order it done. but listen, i will just tell you, i do not care who does it. so long as it is done right, so long as it is given to the public and all of the findings are published. but it is, i mean, your skepticism is absolutely warranted. and i share it 100%. yes, madam. the question is, after the test, and after you find out that you have cancer, what if that might be, it is been very difficult to prove that cancer was sent from this toxin. yes. what are we going to do to ensure that the people are able to say yes, this is what impacted me because they look at the smoke as state rep partly said, we might have some pre-existing family history. what are we going to do to prove that people have been violated and have been impacted by this particular thing? the question is, what happens for those of you who could not hear? the question is, what happens if we stand up a medical fund, which the federal government should do, then is it on the patient? is it on the victim to have to prove it? and the answer should be no. the answer should be, if you live in this area and you have these diseases, you get compensated. there is a little bit more about, you are, you mentioned that you would like to get started on like a fund to help people with compensate, compensating the victims. can you talk a little bit more about that with our money tail? yes. so for instance, back in 1990, all the way back in 1990, the first president bush signed legislation with the boring title. i think it was the nuclear remediation act or something, but it had a, but important purpose. and it was for those folks in a different part of the country who were downwind of various manhattan era projects and experiments who developed cancer. the federal government would compensate them if they developed cancers and other diseases that were on a schedule and they lived in the area in a certain time frame. so my point is to all the folks out there who are already saying, oh, we cannot do this. oh, it is unprecedented. oh, it is too expensive. that is ridiculous. we have already done it. and it was the right thing to do in 1990. it is the right thing to do in 2023. so i will introduce legislation to do that for this region. and we will not make the victims come and be the bad guys where they have to say, oh, but please believe me. here's my diagnosis. this is not like the victim should not be on trial here. the federal government is on trial. they are the ones who should make this right. so what we will do in the legislation is we will say if you live in these areas, where we know there is contaminated waste potentially there and you developed any of these diseases or conditions or illnesses, then you should be compensated by the federal government. your bills can be paid for here. here's the thing that i just regret and everybody's mentioned it today. it is 2023. they have known about this since 1949. and how many people have not only been ill, but have died because of this. so when we talk about in one sense, i say the federal government should make people whole, but we all know that the time to make people truly whole has passed because of the government's negligence, but they can at least do justice now. and that is i think what we should be fighting. senator, how do you hold yourself accountable to don to make sure whatever you are doing now goes for? well. good job with our staff. yeah, that is a bad idea. you said you had a good job of holding us accountable. you have got to do this. i am on the record now here. so i apologize to the senator's staffers. who pick up immediately as to the congresswoman's aid? yes. i think what it will take is this will be listen, this will be a heavy left because a lot of people like in already i can already hear it now. i can hear the voices now. a lot of people will say, oh, it is too expensive. oh, we do not know if there is a link. all this that or the other. so, you know, listen, for better or for worse, i am not afraid to be a little confrontational. so, you can like that or hate it, but we will just leave that aside. but i want to think, here's what it here's where this is good is that if it takes me going down to the floor of the senate day after day and demanding a vote on this legislation, i will do it. i will do what we did with janet elementary. you know, we did the janabill and the first time i went down, somebody blocked me. and i just said he is a nice guy, actually. and i just said to him, i said, listen, i think you are going to want to show your homework here and think about these school kids who are affected. and by the time i went down the next time to demand a vote on this, nobody wanted to stand in the way. so, we will just do this as long as it takes. and so, i know your people's legislation is going towards the government, but why not all of these companies that went with some? well, good, i mean, great point. great point. this is where i hope that there'll be some legal recourse. and i am not a law enforcement officer anymore, but i hope that there'll be some legal recourse here. you know, malen krot, who was i think in charge in the 1940s or the 1950s, and these documents revealed was negligent, and now a pharmaceutical company, that would go figure. we have got to cut her exactly who was absolutely the ones who dumped all this in the landfill light about it. federal government knew about that, could have find them, could have prosecuted them, did not do a thing. that was in the 70s. so, to the extent that there is legal liability still available under our statutes, i hope that those who have the authority to do that will bring the heat. certainly, i will do everything i can, legislatively. and listen to me, you know what i see? he said he is had hearings on this too. thank you. thank you. and i am going to ask, joe manchin, my colleague from west virginia, who is the chairman of the energy committee, i am going to say to joe, we need to have a hearing on this. the whole country needs to know about this. and these women, and those who have been affected by this community, need to be given the chance to testify in public. so, the world is going to be a great decision. and as you see, i do actually want to say that the cleanup of the cold water creek is done and safe, and how would they definitely look along the coast when it is... well, first of all, the cleanup of the cold water creek. i love this. the creek has been contaminated since 1949, as 2023, and their projected cleanup effort is 2038. 2038. i was just there today, myself. they are only working in one portion of the creek. so, the standards got to be the department of energy and the federal government has published standards as to what constitutes radiation-free, contamination-free. this needs to meet the highest possible standards. and they need to publish their results. but i am not going to just take the army corps's word for any bit. listen, good folks work in the army corps. i salute those who are trying their best. but their performance on this so far has been pathetic. i mean, it is just been pathetic. yes, madam. thank you for being here. thank you for the representative. my name is emily jones, this is your 28th female colleague. in 2001, my mother was diagnosed with a lastoma, which apparently is a common theme with this sort of thing from that area she grew up in hazelwood. and she passed away, sadly, indicted a horrible death from this disease. so, i just want to go on record as saying that anyone that has passed as well should be included in these... i think it is extremely important to remember that that as well is as the ones living with this. so, what works for workers? yes, do you know that? and for veterans? all the down in their grandkids. and i just want to say something about to, you know, for our veterans, for our brave men and women in this service country, uniform, and who are injured or contract diseases or illnesses in their service. it is part of our national commitment to them that we take care of them. and we make that right. well, as was said earlier, this region has been asked to serve as it were in a unique way. and the man had a project. i mean, this region was asked to bear the brunt of it. the differences they were lied to, you were lied to for decades and decades. but the principle is the same. the federal government did it. the federal government should make it right. it is not complicated. it is really not. so, if i could ask you a question. yes, madam. if i could have asked a question, what role your legislation do for folks that want to move to wonderful communities like clores in hazelwood or want to teach at our wonderful schools, but do not live here, but then would have to incur the risks of living next to radioactive waste today, tomorrow or in the future. what will your legislation do for those folks? yeah, this is a great question. and this, i think, is the fact that we have got to clean up. we have got to compensate people who are ill and who have gotten these diseases, gotten sick and their families. but there is no substitute for cleaning it up. and this is why the 2038 timeline for the creek to say nothing of the west lake landfill. by the way, can i just note as a point of personal privilege because we have been through this on the landfill. when i was attorney general, which was not that long ago, they were telling me, oh, the epa, they were saying, oh, listen, the contamination of the landfill is totally contained. totally contained. you remember that one? oh, yeah, it is totally contained. and now just last month, the epa said, oops, oops, actually it is not. it is spread everywhere. this has got to stop. and the whole region has to be cleaned up. it has to be cleaned up. other questions? sir. we are actually about how many people have been sick, how disease seen so many different people. is there any type of that in that area? i do not know the answer to that. i do not know. over 80,000, this would be congresswoman's office. but i will see if we can get you this. and i am really, i do not even really think so much for the current age. you were attorney general. i believe there was a settlement reach for the landfill company. and as well, you developed the attorney general's agriculture and environmental division. looking back, would you have changed anything? oh, no, in terms of what we did there. now listen, we held those guys accountable. there was a settlement that was going to be in place when i became attorney general. i reopened that case. and partly in order to get the community benefits and to get them on the hook to do more. i think his republic is the name of the company. that was the only entity that the attorney general's office at the time had a suit against to get them on the hook to actually monitor and clean up. but that is not going to be enough. i mean, the truth is, is that the state i, you know, my predecessors who brought that suit, that was the right thing to do. but the federal government here, ultimately, they are the ones who are going to have to clean it up. the epa has to clean it up. and if they have any doubt about it, they should just come here and see what this is. and if they have any doubt about it, they should just come to west lake lancel. come to coldwater creek. we would have to show them. john said she would like to see the department of energy to pay for the clean-ups to be done in the next five years, at least in terms of the engineering. does that is something that you would like to see? absolutely. yes, madam. my dad and my uncle actually just recently passed away. they were both workers up here. both from cancer, it was very aggressive. i mean, they are trying to see where the workers, but we go through groups, the survivor benefits. and it is ridiculous. we have paperwork that we give them. and then they still say, when i had my dad's badge, that he worked here that, you know, we do not have any rest of it. and this is here, did you say? he worked here. he did not make the book. he did this. i got you. and many things just stopped us. of course. yeah. so, it is just a big thing for the workers. yes. the doe is bycesting, say, no, the dol does not have that paperwork. so, he could not work here, but he did. yes. we have pictures that show that they were wearing the proper things that i am certainly that they have been on the premises. i would say two things to that. number one is that is completely and totally wrong. this is why we have got to go back to the question earlier about how do we do have to prove, you know, some nexus between...no. i mean, the victim should not have to. if you lived here, you worked here, you have these diseases. you should get compensated. but number two, i would love to work with you about this as to your father. it is your father. okay. i will work with you on it. senator taylor, there is a team that we are starting. we are starting a team working with their offices because these people are already covered under the legislation of the senator. but you are right. the burden approved that the department of energy requires is so heartbreaking and unfair. and i have people that i know that with personally. so, we are personally putting a team. we are pretty good at finding the right documents and we are pretty good at applying cross-shared signs. i am saying to them, 300 documents at my dad. these people need us. he kept saying and something. get with us after. get with us. we will help. we see. we have pictures. they probably will not be supposed to take. get with us after. it is the same. but when you read these documents, so that goes out the window for the workers too in the documents. they talk about worker. so, the senator knows that too. the congressman knows that. they are not going to be able to deny claims any longer for workers. that is in the documents. so, thank you. so, thank you. so, thank you. thank you. your colleagues said everyone can see that washington today is very sharply divided. speaker mccarthy has a narrow majority in the house. democrats have a narrow majority in the senate. it seems like a on a daily basis thing to get bogged down by, frankly, silly things. how do you cut through that, clutter? well, i would just say that if we cannot agree that the men and women who have borne the brunt of this nation's nuclear program, and who have raised their kids in these communities to this morning, i was talking with a girl who has a home right by jan elementary, her backyard backs right up to the parking lot of jan. she was telling me that she grew up there. she raised four kids there and now she is got five grandkids. and she said, i am afraid to have my grandkids come out and play in my yard. now, if we cannot agree that somebody like that deserves justice, i do not know what we cannot agree on. and i will just say this, congresswoman bush and i introduced the janile elementary act justice for janile. it passed unanimously. it is like a miracle, unanimously in the united states senate. all republicans and democrats. eventually, we had to work on it. but eventually, we got it unanimously through the senate. i hope that this is something when you see the reality of this, when you see the facts, i do not know how you can look these facts in the eye and look these folks in the eye and say, we should not be taking action at all. senator, what winnings the decision to dissolve the environmental and agricultural division in 2020 in general is happening? we did not dissolve it. we just reconstituted it. we rearranged the office. what? divisions that it fall under? oh, gosh, you are testing my memory now. i am older than i love. it is been a long time. no, i am woodpeaking. you can get you that answer in your soon. okay. you have also your state committee and your leadership pack have accepted donations from the parent company for the color card. from malancraw and from republic services. do you have any plans to get those back? let me look at that. that is a good question. let me look at that. any else? question for you on the phone. okay. one of the themes that you all touched on as you went through was sort of the unawareness in the community of people who have moved in and people who just were not aware of the spread. for example, like one of my neighbors was unsure about whether their daughter should be able to go over just right next to here to august bush conservation area if there was any concerns about that or not on a school field trip. other than the known sites of like cold water creek in the janet elementary are their additional sites that are open and actively using the public and private community today. that you have specific questions or concerns about that you can sort of communicate that to the local. i think there i think that was a lot of questions to break down. let me let me just give you a story and you tell me how many questions we have to ask. will sharf. he will testify to this. i came into this building and he met me here. he is run for a g. he met me here because he wanted to find out about well then because not a lot of information is out there. and the employee that works for the department of energy walked up did she not and i said can you please tell me what is in the rock pile. and she actually told us it is sealed containers of vaseline and scrap metals. i do not think i can illustrate how many questions we have. i think that is better than that story. did i show you it says no high school parking on their lot because that is how close the landfill is. there is so much ridiculous stuff and now the dialogue has to change. we have to come back and say all of that silliness like field trips to the top of this landfill. we need to stop that. i want you guys to go that is ridiculous. i am going to stop it. if they tell you you are sick, prove it. stop. we have to stop the things just like saying that is vaseline. i do want to add something to that. if i may. right now, along cold water creek where all of this radiation is still sitting, some of it on the surface, some of it below the surface. anyone can access it at any given time. there is stuff like i said in people's backyards. there is stuff in your stasis property just sitting on the surface. there is just out there. there is no signs limiting people from getting in the creek. there is no warning signs. other than if you maybe own the property yourself, there may be you may get a letter saying not to dig in your yard. but aside from that, people in the neighborhood may not know if there is a common ground out there. it is just out there. so it is something that we are trying to work on. that is why we are out there trying to raise awareness. thank you. so, what is the plan for the park? is there anything to state can do that it should be doing that it is not doing? well, i am anxious to hear what attorney general andrew bailey finds in his apparent investigation of the 15,000 documents that were handed to him this spring. so he is the only. he is the only elected official. we handed it to alice in kite with the missouri and dependent on her team. he is the only elected official that has had these documents and has had time to review them. and for the members of press that have the thumb drive, please see us. we were going to get you guys can have your own. give us a minute to pick up to copy all that over and we will get it to you. for those that already have it, you literally can go 80, meany, miny mo, they are in chronological order. go ahead and read the thing from beginning to end. but i challenge you to pick six documents at random and you will be like, oh my god, you cannot even really hardly pick six at random and not find something that is mind blown. and i will say that i am so that is why you know, us senator josh holly, congresswoman bush, they had two hours and six documents. and that is all it takes because it is that black and white. it is that there. so i really would encourage him. please, please finish your investigation quick. it is been since the spring and get with us. i am going to take this last question here. and there this is for everyone up there. is there any way that we could streamline the process to get the 15,000 pages to the public? because i know that you guys you need help. i do know that. can you do that? i would love to help with that. i think this is the center of how we are just talking about that. i think we have got to have a very good. i have the department of energy come to my neighborhood 30 years ago and pass all of my neighborhood. it would never give us that information. i would really like to know that. we need help. yeah. we are working on that. i think that people behind us are working on that. that is our goal is to get these documents out to you guys as soon as we can. don and i. you heard us talk about how long we have had them. how long we have been reading them. it is been on our mind every single day on how to do that. guys, we tried. i want you to know that we did not just go to the press first. no offense to the press. we tried. we wrote so many grants to you guys trying to get the money to fix our website to put it on there. it is just us. it is just us. we just hope you. we are going to put this. we got turned down. and we got desperate because we needed to get them out to you guys. so. can you start with the six documents? yeah. it is a start. yeah. we are definitely going to do that. we are going to start dropping them. if you are on our facebook group. we, west lake landfill, facebook group, or just mom's stl. we are going to start putting documents that were not in some of these reports. we are going to start putting those documents up. in the next couple days, you are going to start seeing some documents come up that. i will just say. are pretty bad. please understand that with help, we would love help with social media because facebook, although not maybe you are preferred, is the easiest option for us to do this free. and that is why we use it. we do not. we are. it is just. and mce. and i am close for that. before you leave, have any of you heard from a.g. no, just mom says no. why not? he never called me an amasave representative. and that is why i am asked for more. we passed it on the floor. we all were there in january and we tested it out. and then missouri state. house of representatives passed it. and unanimously i watched it. and then it went to the senate. and somebody dropped the ball after that. are we going to be here now? it would be already in motion. and i am the mom here. that is just saying. we need to fix this. we have to fix our own state people. and it is fairly. please step up to the place. and thank you guys for coming. i know it is hot. thank you. again, we all thank you for your support. thank you to the senator. thank you to the congresswoman. state reps. state reps. everybody.