senator coons facebook senator coons instagram senator coons twitter senator coons youtube news press releases senator coons, colleagues denounce fcc chairman brendan carr’s unlawful plan to increase costs for law-abiding americans with incarcerated loved ones october 30, 2025 washington – u.s. senator chris coons (d-del.), a cosponsor of the historic, bipartisan martha wright-reed just and reasonable communications act , and 12 of his senate colleagues denounced federal communications commission (fcc) chairman brendan carr’s decision to block a law that will help end egregious prison phone rates and make it easier for innocent family members to regularly communicate with their incarcerated loved ones while reducing recidivism rates. in a letter, the senators urged chairman carr to follow the law and withdraw his efforts to delay the implementation of this bipartisan, commonsense law—concluding the letter with a simple directive. “we do not require, nor desire, a response to our letter. we simply want you to enforce the law,” the senators wrote . in the letter, the senators call out chairman carr for previously voting in favor of adopting the legally-required implementation rules last year—the very rules he is now gutting. “as a commissioner, you voted for the fcc’s 2024 final rule that was adopted on a bipartisan basis, 5-0. consistent with congressional intent, the 2024 final rule cut prison phone rates by more than half and banned junk fees charged by providers,” the senators wrote . “as you said at the time, you ‘support[ed] the decision in this proceeding to address the worst abuses and ensure that [incarcerated people’s communications services] rates are just and reasonable.” the senators also underscored the severe consequences that chairman carr’s decision will have on millions of innocent family members who wish to keep in touch with their incarcerated loved ones. “you have now circulated a draft order to the commission that would increase the rates paid by incarcerated people and their families by up to 83 percent compared to the 2024 final rule. your claim that the 2024 final rule created ‘unintended consequences’ lacks any support in the record or fact,” the senators wrote . “worse, by repealing the rule and delaying enforcement, your arbitrary and capricious action will inflict irreparable harm on millions of americans who simply seek to remain in contact with incarcerated loved ones—critical connections that benefit us all by helping to reduce recidivism in a country where approximately 95 percent of all americans sentenced to federal and state prison will eventually reenter society.” signed into law in 2022, the bipartisan, landmark policy honors the legacy of the late martha wright-reed by completing the mission she began over two decades ago to end egregious prison phone rates that gouged innocent family members and prevented these americans from regularly communicating with incarcerated loved ones—despite studies indicating that preserving familial relationships helps reduce recidivism rates. along with senator coons, the letter is signed by u.s. senators chuck schumer (d-n.y.), tammy duckworth (d-ill.), maria cantwell (d-wash.), richard blumenthal (d-conn.), cory booker (d-n.j.), amy klobuchar (d-minn.), ed markey (d-mass.), bernie sanders (i-vt.), chris van hollen (d-md.), raphael warnock (d-ga.), elizabeth warren (d-mass.), and ron wyden (d-ore.). to read the full text of the letter, click here . previous article next article nav-mobile-modal search-mobile-modal