this hearing, it is disturbing to me, you know, kind of this defense of vladimir putin and russia, and it is very worrisome. look, if we want to call an independent investigation looking beyond 2016, looking into the last administration, great, let us do it. but this is about protecting our democracy. i mean, let us just go through a timeline of, you know, what our current president has said. in october of 2013, he talked about how he does a lot of business with russia. in november of 2015, he talked about how he got to know putin very well because we were both on 60 minutes. they were stable mates. december of 2015, you know, vladimir putin praises them in response trump praises him back. february of 2016, he talks about how putin called him a genius. march 28th, he hires paul manafort. you know, august 17th, he gets his president, trump gets his first intelligence briefing. we are told in that briefing, he is shown direct evidence of russian government hacking emails. two days later, paul manafort resigns. you know, in july of 2016, he encourages the russians to hack hillary clinton's emails. you know, trump selected president trump selected november 8th, november 9th, the russian parliament shares. this is very worrisome. you know, the president talks about this as a political witch hunt. look, he won the election, but this is not a political witch hunt. you know, when the tragedy of benghazi happened, we came together, you know, an independent investigation looked at what happened, what were not wrong. you know, we lost some heroes that day. they made recommendations. we ought to do the same thing. i think many of us would say the millions of dollars that were spent on benghazi, the majority, had no issue with doing that. we ought to do the same thing. this is not democrats or republicans. this is about protecting the integrity of our elections and pushing back. you know, i would ask the witnesses a couple of yes-no questions. do you have faith in the intelligence community's assessment that russian intentionally interfered with our recent elections? yes, now? yes, but i am very troubled to see the commander in chief announcing something that i would have thought was sensitive information. and then reading that people were rolled up in russia who were probably too close to putin. so this distresses me. yes, now, intelligence. is this citizen? yes, i have faith in the intelligence community. ambassador? yes. and, you know, based on that, do we believe that we ought to consider this interference in our democracy and our elections a national security threat? ambassador bloomfield. i use the word challenge. mr. dora. russia's efforts to destabilize the west on all fronts is a threat to us. ambassador bear? yes. right. and i think we would all agree that we do not believe russia or vladimir putin has our best interests or democracy's best interests in mind in these attempts. you know, this is about us coming together as democrats and republicans and protecting our democracy. if america is not standing up for democracy and pushing back, you know, the rest of the world is watching. it starts to undermine our leadership. mr. chairman, you know, what are the reasons why this has been such a great committee is the bipartisan nature of your leadership working with the ranking member? i urge you to let us mark up the protect our democracy act. let us have this discussion. let us set up an independent investigation, look at those independent findings and look at those independent recommendations to protect our elections, to protect the integrity of our elections. let us not do a political witch hunt. this is about our democracy. would any of you disagree, you know, let us go to ambassador bloomfield, would you support the recommendation of setting up an independent investigation that could come up with findings and make recommendations? i think an investigation is absolutely appropriate, but where you come out, if we are in confusion, if we are in chaos, if we are, if we stop after an investigation and say we are dysfunctional and we cannot restore the western order against the threat, then we have failed. so the idea is to heal the nation, find a way to move forward, see what we can agree on and have our political differences show the world that our democracy not only is democratic but that we can get something done at work. ambassador bear, should we do an investigation? yes, and i said as much in my testimony, but i was written. great, thanks. i am out of time. mr. ted yeho, florida. thank you, mr. chair, thank you for everybody enduring.