yes, great to have all of you here this afternoon. it is a special day for us to have congressman nami barra with us, even though it is a short trip, but he is made time to be with us, so we are really, really grateful. i would leave the formal introduction to ambassador ronin sen, but ambassador sen, we are so privileged for you to share this session for us. thank you so much and without wasting any more time over to you. thank you, karin. thank you and i want to thank you and also colleagues, the aspen group, organizing this get together with sir chautnose and it is a privilege to welcome dr. ami barra and amidst. i think all of you know is, you know, he does not really need any introduction, but it is, his life has been quite remarkable in a sense of his been entirely dedicated to public service and you know, he is come up the hard way, he is completely a self-made man. i mean, he did his, his bachelor's and his, he got to the medical degree and again, we are working part time and then and also, you know, a veiling of some scholarships which obviously based on his merit and and he is repaid that many, many, many, many times over in terms of public service, both as as medical practitioner, as an educator. he was and and finally in in doing something which is quite extraordinary in terms of the indian american community, community that is taking a, you know, a deep lunge into politics and emerging successful against a very formidable entrenched incumbent in the 7th district in california. i think a number of people here, you are aware of california and it is where the 7th district is located just to east of sacramento and and it is it is quite remarkable that it is it is a very diverse congressional district, very vibrant as vibrant as it is diverse and and he got elected there and as i said against formidable odds because he got a widespread support because the indian american community there is just barely 1% of his constituency. so without further ado, i think if you permit me and would you like to say something to begin with? sure, before we start our conversation. first off, thank you for that generous introduction. i want to thank hearing and the vastness for this opportunity. you made one comment of being a self-made man, none of us are self-made and my story starts with my parents who immigrated from gujarat, my father in 1958, my mother in 1959 and in many ways it is the story, it is an indian story but it is also a story of the indian american diaspora. now they came here to america just seeking a better life, that is an american story to build for my two older brothers and myself to give us an opportunity and a chance. so i have not accomplished anything by myself, i am only able to do what i am doing because of those that came before me and that goes back to the 1950s with the first asian member of congress who was also an indian american deads-deleteed son also from california. so it is important for us to know as members of the indian diaspora where we came from. that is why it is also important for me to return to india as a united states congressman because i recognize that this victory is not my victory but something that we should be proud of as an indian american community and certainly broadly as the indian community. so this is an important trip for me and this is an important relationship to see the full fruition of the partnership between the united states and india, the world's oldest democracy in the united states and the world's largest democracy, particularly in an increasingly complex world. our values of freedom are values of building for the next generation, our values of being start-up people, being innovative people, have the ability of remake in the world in many ways the indian american community, while only being 1% of the population in the united states is responsible for 8% of the start-ups, is responsible for much of the innovation that has powered the last two decades of the american economy and having just visited bangalore, that culture of innovation that exists in california, in my home district in sacramento and certainly in silicon valley, is very much evident in president here in india as well. so this is a partnership that is to still appraise from president obama can be the defining strategic partnership in the 21st century. congressman, you have just spoken about the indian american community and i said when i talked about formidable odds, i think there was another factor i would like to add to that. when i was in the united kingdom, you have less or number of people there of indian origin, but a greater percentage of the population, but you have about 1.7 million people of indian origin. but in terms of seeking political office, they had been much more active in terms of you have now 8 members of the house of commons, you have 22 members in house of lords, and even in germany where they are just barely 50,000 people of indian origin, you have out of population of all 81 million, 50,000 as absolutely menace skills, you have two members of the bundestag, and one of them chairing the committee on the interior, which is a critical committee, and the other one is deputy chairman of the party, the greens party, one is of course, the social democrat, the other is of the greens. but in the united states where you have such a vibrant community, not only people, and with an extraordinary contributions you have spoken about, and people with the maximum reach in terms of, you know, in terms of the number of fellow americans they come in contact with, like, you know, doctors like you, entrepreneurs, you have spoken about startup, it is across the board, but hospitality sector. but in terms of, and that is where i am very interested in knowing, and if you can share with us, that, you know, people do not turn up, not enough people turn up to vote, at national levels, at state levels, at local levels. how did you, when what impale, how what motivated you to get into it and take the plunge? so, i have been privileged to be able to do a number of different things. answering your first question, it is quite accurate that the indian american community for all of our strides, you know, we are not the most affluent community in america, we are the most educated community in america, has not engaged politically. and some of that is, i think, just by the very nature of being a young community, you know, for my generation, the first generation that was born and raised in the united states, it was go become a doctor, go become an engineer, you know, so we have been focused on making those strides of building some security and establishing ourselves as a community in america. you know, again, i am the first generation, you know, having been born and raised in america, but when i look at that generation right behind me in their 20s and 30s, this will become commonplace. you know, my sense is within the next decade, you know, i would hope that there are four or five members of congress and this starts to happen. you know, my my my success is predicated though on those values that i was raised with as an indian american, those values of family, those values of having the security of community. congressman, you know, you mentioned these values and they are vitally important for us and there is so much that we share. you know, the other aspects, you know, i mean india, between india and california, opposed the united states is such, you know, very strong people to people links and across the board and, you know, considering that california is, you know, if it was, it is among the 10th largest, you know, it is the ninth, it would not have first 10 anyway. right. always been the largest economy in the world. concering that eight largest now. eight largest now, right. okay. so, considering that, i mean, when you have, you know, a trade turnover of just about six and a half billion, it seems to be small, even in comparison with our total trade and good and services, what i think about 100 billion. and, you know, apart from obviously, and you have representatives here from some of the companies, california companies, you have, i mean, you know, exports from there from california in computer and electronics, of course, and manufacturing goods and agriculture also. right. and i remember in agriculture, you know, pioneering role, i mean, people remember of norman bullock and, you know, his role and in terms of the green revolution in india. but not many people know about the role which, you know, we have in other agriculture areas, like grape cultivation, you know, from uc davis, you know, for you, at tot. and of, you know, in the us da in fremont. so, what do you think in terms of how do you develop those things? you know, the reason why i am so optimistic about the relationship and the potential of the partnership between the united states and india is because we have only scratched the surface of trade. you know, we touched on the grape industry. you know, there is a right market for my home in station, uc davis and for california to help india develop it. it is wine industry, you know, there is, you know, some of the conversations we have had around agriculture, you know, india has a mature agricultural sector, but around issues of storage and food waste, you know, we are doing some innovative things in my home district at, at uc davis on the issue of cold storage. you know, we have worked through some logistics on supply chain, moving goods market. so these are natural win-win opportunities. obviously on the issue of technology on, you know, the silicon valley on, you know, working with india, we have seen a maturation there. i think the sky is the limit here. i mean, we have gone from 20 billion in trade to 100 billion. you know, vice president biden has said, you know, it is time to go from 100 billion to 500 billion. and those are the opportunities that exist. right. and i think congressman, i think, you know, i just wanted to mention also, i mean, all of you know that the congressman is a member of the foreign affairs committee and also the committee on science, space and technology. some of the issues, you know, some in those areas where we are actually collaborating and we can collaborate much more. and on subcommittee research among other things. and, but also, i mean, you are looking after also the subcommittees and the asia-pacific and on africa and the global health and human rights. well, you know, certainly let us talk about the geopolitical partnership that exists as well. you know, we have had conversations, you know, within committee, when secretary kerry came, you know, my question to the secretary was, as we look at afghanistan in the post-2014, well, there is a unique opportunity here for a us and india strategic partnership. and india has a critical role in holding on to the gains and, you know, giving afghanistan best shot at success. but india cannot do it alone. this is a partnership with the united states, and we both have a best-aid interest and success here. india, you know, it is credit has for a decade been making strategic investments and helping build infrastructure in afghanistan. and, you know, obviously, the united states has made massive investments. you know, as we negotiate the bilateral security agreement, as, you know, india has, you know, this starts to define the partnership that we have with india and the post-afghanistan 2014. as afghanistan goes through a selection, now, again, india is the world's biggest democracy. we are the world's oldest democracy. we both have a vested interest in making sure these elections move forward in a very stable way. again, there is a partnership there. certainly, as we pivot to asia, there is a, you know, we talk about this in our committee quite often. india should be the stable foundation, certainly for southern asia. and so forth. and that is in both our countries' interests. and a partnership is a partnership where two people are dialoguing together. they are listening to one another. and then they are formulating strategy and moving forward. that is certainly in my role as the indian american congressman. it is important to make sure this is a partnership. right. and, you know, you are referred to two major issues and which concern us also 2014 when you have the three transitions. one is in terms of the security when with the us and the ias af forces, you know, getting out of their combat role. and also the economic transition and the political transition taking place all at the same time. and there are some, you know, i am sure on this and on the rebalancing to asia. we have a number of experts here. now, would like to make some general comments before we open up to the... sure. because, you know, on china, apart from pakistan, there are some concerns because, you know, both of them are our principal major neighbors. and we cannot see one without being the other because in a sense, there have been, you know, languages between the two, whether it is in terms of non-proliferation or across the board. and how i look at this as a, as one member of congress is, you know, from the united states perspective, it is not an issue of china or india. in fact, in all of our interests, it is how we have this conversation together because india has a robust trading relationship with china. we have a robust trading relationship with china. how do we approach this as, you know, equal partners in a way that is mutually beneficial? we all have an interest in making sure that pakistan finds some stability and does not become an unstable state. now, that is in india's interest, that is in the us's interest. you know, as we look at the, you know, some of the energy concerns, you know, the united states, a decade ago, nobody would ever would have thought that we potentially become an energy surplus country. we have made tremendous strides in terms of our energy security. india has real energy needs. how do we take some of what we have learned and identify those areas of unique partnership where we can help india meet some of the energy needs in a strategic way, both in the renewable space, but certainly in shale gas and oil. so, if you were to ask me, the partnership looks very bright in the future. and i would go back to a statement that the number of folks that made all the way up to president obama that this partnership can be the defining partnership of the 21st century. and the indian american community has a role in making sure this partnership reaches its full potential as do all of this in congress. so, i am happy to. thank you. should we take some questions from the floor now and well, surin dhan, ambassador surin dhan kumar. thank you. the congress and your speech of my time. wait for the microphone please. the minister is sending you. i have comments. you also said the afghanistan offers prospects for india, us security partnership. in theory, yes, but as they say, devlin details, because most of the defense analysts in india, you talk to them, they will say india, us are really not in the same page of afghanistan. us are trying to talk with taliban. many defense analysts will feel that after you have gone to 2014, but a taliban might be the dominant force of afghanistan, which is equal to india. it is pakistan will get benefit. so, i do not know whether practical sense, whether we really have scope partnership or we have many more causes to concern. so, i can speak as one member of congress from my perspective. i have been consistent that india has a critical role in stability of afghanistan and that whole scale withdrawal is not in the interest of the us to maintain some stability there. you know, part of the purpose of this trip is to have this dialogue to get a better understanding of how india is viewing 2014 in afghanistan. from my perspective, we should be talking about this, because again, india has made significant investments in creating some infrastructure in pakistan or in afghanistan. and the us has made significant investments. we should be approaching this in a partnership because it is in our strategic interest now. within my role on the foreign affairs committee, i will continue to advocate and make the case that it is in our interest to have this conversation. particularly before, we get to december 2014. so, that we are making decisions as partners. i will continue to advocate that. the best way i can be effective is with my colleagues in congress. and i think we have successfully had some letters put together asking secretary kerry to define india's role in afghanistan as well. yeah, please. no, first, let me say that any follow-up questions in afghanistan? yeah, please. let us get to see it. a couple of months ago, and this question which relates to afghanistan, is there a roadmap being developed for the strylateral, us, india, afghanistan relationship? because in the absence of that, you know, we will not be able to take specific action though. we had a few meetings here with, you know, on this trilateral kind of an arrangement. but i do not see that developing it, you know, in the larger us-india engagement towards afghanistan. you know, certainly it is clear to me from the indian perspective that that dialogue is not taking place. so, one message that i will take back as i go back to the united states and back to congress is the importance of having that dialogue in that conversation early, as opposed to late. and, you know, i understand indian industry has resources that are available and that they want to continue to invest in afghanistan. but certainly there has to be some assurances of some level of security. so, what i have heard loud and clear and i will take back with me is the importance of making sure that conversation is taking place and that india is a partner in this conversation and that there is an understanding of the indian perspective. right. yes, mr. shukla. oh, thank you. do i have several questions? do i confine myself here too? afghanistan only? we can, i think after afghanistan, then we can go on to the other issue. okay. issue by issue. right. okay. thanks. yes. yeah, my name is prabhat shukla. i am a retired foreign service officer. my last assignment was as ambassador to russia. i am now working at a think tank called the vivekanam international foundation. and my throat, as you can see, is in very bad shape. as a bad person. yeah, i noticed you also. you had a sutheran in your pocket. i do not know. good on you. okay. now, my, on afghanistan, there is one other issue which we have been grappling with. which is the question of access. simple contiguity. on the map, we do have but a very difficult terrain at the best of times. but the reality is we do not. now, we have been trying to develop an alternative through iran. you are obviously familiar with this. but we run into a wall because america is applying very heavy pressure to cut our links with iran. is there any way of squaring this circle? yeah. thank you. from my perspective, as it pertains to iran, the biggest concern and the biggest worry is the acquisition of nuclear weapons in iran. because that sets off arms race in the middle east. at a time where things are very unstable there. yeah, on the, my senses on the day that iran acquires nuclear weapons, saudi arabia will get them immediately from pakistan. so the one tool that we have to avoid that and continue to help by pressure are the sanctions. but i think all the members of congress, as well as the administration, are unified in our desire to send a strong message to the iranian regime that this is not an option. that they should reconsider that. and if certainly nuclear energy is fine, but the acquisition of nuclear weapons is not an option because it will send us in a wrong direction. india tips credit has been, you know, winding down and purchasing its energies from other areas and we applaud that. on the issue of transportation, on the issue of energy pipelines and so forth, i think that is a longer term discussion because obviously india has energy needs that, you know, you force itself to look to see where it can purchase that energy. i think we should have an alternative conversation, you know, as the us makes strides in unleashing some of our reserves, you know, we discovered reserves. there is no reason why we cannot take some of that technology. i have to imagine there is shale oil here in india. i have to imagine there is some offshore reserves and so forth. how do we help india unlock its energy potential as well? so yeah, sorry. sam? you do not have the main question. yeah, but the main, but we actually have done this time. well, so it is in our interest to see those pipelines and so forth. we access afghanistan though and create those transportation rights by actually having a dialogue about this and you know, pakistan plays a role here as well in terms of some of the movements of goods and services throughout afghanistan. yeah, just, just, just, just, yeah, please. not on afghanistan, please. are we done with afghanistan? no, then i think if you can bring the mic back over here. yeah, and then then we go back to you because he is asked a long time back. yeah, thank you. i am arvinder brahara, chairman and managing director of mantic consultants. taking on on from what ambassador ronan said, said, what can be done to encourage more indian americans to be in congress and in the senate? i think you are right that they are more focused on their profession than business. but i think it will help not only us in indian but also america because i think you have a lot of intellectual capital there. so there should be some kind of a motivation or efforts done to encourage this. i think it was important for the indian american community to see me get elected because they had to believe that it was possible. and a number of individuals have run over the last decade and have not been successful. so the first step was to see that we could get elected, especially in a district that is less than 1% indian american running on who i am. so now that the doors open, it is my obligation as well as the entire community's obligation to identify those leaders within our community and support those leaders. because the more representation that we get, the more we are able to address and understand the issues both from america's perspectives but also based on our background india's perspectives as well. i also think the broader indian american community needs to get more politically engaged as well so they can weigh in and help shape some of the decisions in america. yes, we are pleased. my name is arja shokta, i write for a paper called the business standard. there is a sense that we get from a lot of people who we talk to in washington that the indian embassy there does a good job of engaging the state department, the pentagon, the white house and so on but not such a good job in engaging the hale, individual congressman and so on. the last person who did a good job on that is sitting on your left, i am cold. this is what we hear. what is your perception? what is the perception on the hale and how can this be improved? so my perception may not be the same as everyone else because the indian american community, the embassy, indian indian industries are constantly engaging our office based on who i am so. i would think that we are having constant robust dialogue. that said, and i am going to broaden the question here, i do not know that we have done enough to engage the broader congressional community. we can go back to the bush administration on the us-india civil nuclear deal. there was broad congressional engagement. we still have the largest country caucus being the us-india caucus that has the biggest membership of members of congress. but we need to identify that unifying value that we want to accomplish in the us-india relationship. we also need to educate members of congress on why this partnership is so important, both for our economic growth in the united states, but also for our geopolitical stability. it is quite obvious to me why this partnership is so important. but we need to make sure other members of congress understand the importance of this partnership. we also need to make sure other members of congress understand india and experience india. so what i am getting this week listening directly to foreign policy experts and the folks that are thinking about this, i need to make sure my colleagues are hearing this as well. so in having this direct interaction. yes. thank you. ronnie mullin. i am a us academic and i am based here in delhi this year with a full bright narrow fellowship to research the indian afghan relationship. so i have a question with regard, actually a specific question on afghanistan and a more general one on our foreign policy to south asia. on afghanistan it was in the papers today. there were several articles that india cannot provide security hardware to afghanistan because of end user agreements. and i am wondering if there is any thinking in the us specifically in our defense department on that it might be in our interest in fact to loosen some of these end user agreements for hardware that sold to india in order for india to be able to share this with afghanistan. so a specific question there and then my more general question on our foreign policy towards india and south asia. i was surprised i had some talks in washington this summer with people at think tanks and was told we are no longer talking about a pivot to asia but a rebalance towards asia. and indeed my sense from what is coming out of the state department with our foreign policy largely revolved on a revolving door policy on the middle east that is really neglecting asia. so i am very glad to see you coming here but a sense, so i am wondering from your perspective on the hill where do you see our south asia policy when the word and from some quarters at least in washington is that it is not as focused on asia anymore. thank you. so two questions there. the first question i think both the united states and india are better served if the united states maintains some of that security presence in afghanistan until the afghani people are able to secure their own country. i just think for a wide variety of political reasons as well as how other members in this neighborhood might perceive you know others you know providing that security role. and i think india's role in afghanistan is largely where they have been focused which is helping build the infrastructure for the country of afghanistan to find some fidelity helping them build their mining industry, helping them build the agricultural sector, helping build some of the roads and and highways in india's and indian companies are uniquely suited to do that. so that is where the partnership is. on the rebalance to asia versus the pivot to asia, yeah i think when the original pivot was being discussed there nobody had a crystal ball to think about everything that is happened in the last few years in north africa in the middle east particularly in syria and in egypt. i cannot speak for the administration but i think that is where some of the three balancing is coming from the much more of the foreign policy perspective has been pulled over toward the middle east and how to grapple and make decisions. that said i do think the defining relationship in the 21st century is going to be this relationship between the us and asia certainly you are saying saying that. so i think while temporarily you may see a rebalancing i think there is going to be much more of a pivot. ambassador schuchler. thank you chair. i am going to go into a number of other areas now. the first is i want to pick up what you said about india and the us having a common interest in the stability of pakistan. i think at an abstract theoretical, even practical level i think we are all agreed on this. the difficulty is that you know i have been sitting in on hindu us dialogue since the mid 90s and this has been a recurrent theme that we need to work together and work for the stability of pakistan etc but on the ground the situation just keeps getting worse and the best judgment we can make is it is not going to get better anytime soon. now i am just wondering if we need also to broaden the hindu us dialogue to take into account a situation where pakistan becomes a failed state. neither of us want sit certainly the pakistanis do not want it none of the neighbours want sit and yet it may happen despite the best wishes of all the people involved. i am just wondering if you think this might be one of the vectors in the dialogue point number two. i am very glad you made a reference to vice president biden's speech. i think it has not got enough attention in delhi certainly perhaps because it was made in mumbai and we are very provincial about these things but i think you know i mean i think he made three very important points one it is always wrong to bet against america. people like me have been pitching this message very strongly over here that this whole talk about america's decline is highly highly overdone. the trouble is that there are lots of people in america who are beating the same drum and that does make things difficult for us but we are soldiering on. the second point he makes which is very very relevant i think again is that there is no conflict between strategic autonomy and strategic partnership with the us. again i think this is a message well worth propagating and i have just written a piece on this in fact giving a lot of solid evidence behind this. third point and this is a question. third point is his reference to the trans-pacific partnership. i am wondering if you could tell us something more about it because i have been again a watery of india signing up initially at least as an observer which is how i think canada started if i am not mistaken and then we take it forward i mean there are some apprehensions on our side about a labor standards environment and ipr and so on but i think these are these are nothing that we will not have to face anyway whether we talk about the wto or whatever other framework so could you tell us something more about how you see tpp moving forward and what kind of thinking is there for india in this regard. thank you. so on the first point the answer is yes this the us and india should be having a dialogue as it depends the pakistan as how to move forward but also contingency planning should things go south and that is a shift. again i will qualify i am speaking with one member of congress but to continue with the strategy that has not really led to progress is not a strategy at all so let us rethink how we approach this and india should be a partner in rethinking how you move forward because we both have a vested interest. on the second statement and then the question absolutely i would not bet against the united states we have issues and we have been focused on our challenges in the last three or four years you know we had a deep recession that deeply impacted the american middle class and american families and our focus moved inward a bit as well to get through this recovery. we also have our own challenging political environment right now we are in divided government with an ability to move forward in a comprehensive way. despite all of that our economy is recovering things are starting to look better people are starting to feel better there is a resiliency that exists. how we take that though we so we are not out of the woods in terms of recovery we can so manufacture something politically that puts us back in a recession hopefully we are smarter than that and we can move past this when we come back in the session but how we do not just recover but actually get back on this projector of acceleration is through trade and economic development i think if india were asking me i think they are very much as a role for an india in a trans-pacific partnership at a minimum to have some trading agreements between the united states and india i mean there is parallel conversations going on with the asiatic nations and australia and then there is the trans-pacific partnership and i think it would be a shame if the two biggest flares here india and the united states have two separate treaties but there is not one that allows them to because you know we are dealing with some trade issues right now in both ends and some concerns we need a mechanism that allows us to resolve these and minimize you know the the concerns of us companies as well as the concerns of indian companies because again we have done very well when we have been working together in terms of growing our economy so in short yes i think india would be well-served and i think the united states would be well-served if india was part of the the tpp conversation they are short of that if we were actually having a round bilateral conversation around trade yes i think please could you speak up a little bit please so my name is shubhajit roy i am from the indian express newspaper since india and the us you know both share the common values of democracy i would like to get your view on the us government not giving visa to a democratically elected chief minister of gujarat mr. nandran modi and would you think that the us government should reconsider its decision on not giving him a visa thank you you know i think you know as we have discussed with the state department i think chief minister modi you know if has that interest should apply for the visa again i mean at this time it is a state department issue yeah i would say if the chief minister has the desire to visit i think he should apply for the visa yes please see the ever tightening visa regime in the us is adversely affecting the indian it industry you know should we take it as a fate accompli or could something be done about it you know nothing in us politics is a fate accompli so there is the senate has passed their version of the bill we do not know how the the house leadership the republican majority is going to approach immigration if they approach it at all and you know i think the danger here is if this becomes a political issue that yeah there is issues on the american side there is issues on the indian side we are going to thrive if we work through this because indian companies have helped which obligation and help with the the us economy so we certainly do not want this to become a political issue it should you know if we can take it out of the realm of politics and just negotiate it it is beneficial both to india and the united states so nothing's a fate accompli and you know as you know with within india's own democracy our democracy is a evolving process and well so you know i you know my message to indian industry would be to tell the story of what they have contributed to america's economy the number of jobs that indian companies have helped create an america so what we should tell that story yes yes hi congressman my name is sukunal that and i represent the press trust of india i have a two-in-question actually i had two hard questions but i think i see enough f-packed dots around you so i am going to go with soft questions the first question is about the indian american communities in us how politically inclined you think they are as in vis-a-vis let us say the life in india where you see every corner i know discussing about the politics whether it is the legislative policy or the larger general elections how politically inclined you think the community is there and secondly you know i know braga baama i said that 100% security cannot be 100% privacy so the on the issue of spying what is it take as as a congressman i mean would you like your emails to be eavesdropped on thank you i appreciate the softball questions you know let us say let us take the the second question first you know a lot happened in the post 9-11 world now that we are a decade out though we should have this conversation between national security homeland security and and rights of privacy so you know we along with now want to say close to 150 colleagues in the house of representatives have sent a letter to the president saying we should have this conversation and it should be a public discussion so we are discussing the the balance between national security and and privacy but that is the discussion that should be happening the first question was remind me ah the indian-american community you know i think my parents generation and the first generation that that immigrated here were often focused on indian politics first and foremost and would have vibrant discussions about what was happening in india while they were deeply focused on becoming successful in america through business through academics it is up now that the next generation is rising the generation that was born and raised and fully see them as having a seat at the table at the american table i do think we are going to see this transition where more people are getting engaged in politics and talking about american politics um yeah and from my own experience and when i first worked in washington dc in 1985 i do not think i saw anyone who looked like me um today my chief of staff is the indian-american um you see members in the administration who are indian-american you see you know walk through the halls of congress and you see many young indian-americans so i just think this is a natural progression and the community will continue to get more and more involved i see it as part of my obligation to use my position to engage the the broader indian-american community in in american politics as well yeah how big of a i am a prekashambegokkar and i am from washington dc and i am very glad you were here i just found out you were here today and i would like to ask a question to you and make a little comment about what i have just heard in the last hour and i am fairly active in washington in the us-india relations as well as the us-china relations and india-china relations what i observed is that the china angle was very important in the us equation towards india in the early days in united states thought of india as a hedge against china that hope and that particular has disappeared but i noticed more and more and it is a good idea me we tell some things to this audience that gets talked behind the scene of the record it is okay to say something publicly and being goody-goody but the real bottom line is there a lot of negative uh currents in the united states towards india india has become less significant than it was at one time now the question is why and all that and as you can see in the last one hour the whole hyphen we spoke of is india and pakistan my hope and my work has been to eliminate that hyphen and create a india-china hyphen and it happened for few years every tv every article every media india-china was said in the same sentence it is not happening now so the thing we have to think of how much we people indian americans can do about it how much needs to be done right here in in india itself and it goes back into economic performance and a common statement that happens is who will help india if china attacks india again and many people say we can count on us but the us say we will not count do not count on you because we can count on you when it comes to afghanistan when it comes to iran so these are some little bit more observations i felt should be understood indian americans we are doing great but at the same time i think we have a lot of limitations and the real ball stops here is what i would like to and maybe you might make a comment on this so comment on um india-china um us-china from the us perspective we should not look at this as china or india we should look at it as the relationship with both and i think the same thing from the indian perspective it should not india has to have a relationship with china as does it have to have a relationship with the us i think and you know again a few of us on the foreign affairs committee think there is this critical partnership with with india as we look at issues of southeast asia and and emerging nations in vietnam as we look at issues of china-c we have to think to ourselves because the united states who are our strategic partners they are just as india has to think who her strategic partners are and i would hope that we reach the same conclusion that it is in the united states interest and india's interest for both of us to be strategic partners together um you know that i think you you are accurate that you know the relationship that was accelerating forward you know just five years ago has slowed down some of that is just because each country is dealing with its own internal political issues and so forth but as we start to move through some of this and hopefully come back to some normalcy in the united states politics and i think as india moves through its own elections and so forth my hope would be that we then recover and gain some of that momentum and gain some of that that dialogue yeah i know intentionally um that is a focus that i am you know certainly working on um i think it is a focus that the indian american community should be working on as well the indian american community has not um used its clout to the extent possible and i think that the broader community certainly should with the desire to grow this relationship this partnership with india i you know if india has attacked certainly the indian american community has a concern about that thank you very much uh uh congressman i think you have covered a very broad broad spectrum in these discussions today and i thank you very much for your open and candidate and also eliminating questions and giving your perspective and you all agree as that this relationship is widely important both of us and we stress that it is not transactional or tactical it is long term and strategic and that we should keep talking on areas where we feel and we should not look under the bed or you know looking for issues as to intentions but we should keep that dialogue going candidly would you have some words to sum up yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah within this we see a broad spectrum of you know some folks that have been working on the diplomatic issues for years but i also see a younger generation in here as well you know that next generation that has the ability to redefine relationships in the world yeah the world that i grew up in the world that many of us who are in our late 40s early 50s grew up with a very different world than the one that is emerging today so it is you know we have gone through some of our battles and you know we look at the world from one perspective but i think it is important for us to embrace how how the next generation is going to be the world and the opportunity again is huge and incredibly important for us to have this vibrant and strategic relationship both for each country's economic future and for our geopolitical future so i am an optimist i see the future as bright and i see this relationship as being a bright one i see the indian american community becoming much more politically engaged and that can only benefit and strengthen the relationship and i see the next generation and really you know you are seeing many more of this reverse migration of indian american children coming back to rediscover every i think that can only be a positive as well so i am optimistic i think the future's right we will hit some bumps in the road but every relationship hits those bumps in the road let us learn from those let us build on the successes that we have and you know learn from the things that do not work out quite as we had expected yeah karen thank you so much congressman it is been great to hear you and it is great to know that we have an indian american in congress the us law says that you have to be a us born to be in the white house so my question to you is do i need to ask the second half of the question yes so when do we see an indian american in the white house when do we see ami barra the president let us focus on making sure we have ami barra the congressman and let me focus on my reelection i am but let me actually capture that question yes i was born in the united states and but my legacy when people ask me well what legacy do you hope to leave behind my legacy is not measured in what i do my legacy is measured in what that next generation does so if my legacy is inspiring you know others to run for congress and in this next decade we have four or five indian american members in congress that is a legacy that i want if in my lifetime we have the first indian american senator that is a legacy that i want and yes i would love to see within my lifetime an indian american president because yeah our legacy is built on you know what the next generation accomplishes so that is why thank you so much thank you once again