congressman emmy vera is amongst us. we extend a heart to welcome to emmy vera. congressman, congressman emmy vera, sadevich karpon chenet, arunadhe ngaar, r&a world financial group, elk grove office, deh marketing directors, ladhi tambi, navi tambi, narinder paar, powerpreet sandhu, atam jee chima and kamal prithkhaar, emmy vera, vx and a hearty welcome to anuni ji ayah aapnya. tadani, kasewagat, karna, mike devagi, congressman emmy vera, hora. well, this is a wonderful celebration of the punjabi community and punjab to california. because if we think about our broader indian american community, the oldest community in america is the punjabi community that settled here in california and set the foundation and the pavement for the generations to come. my parents came from india in 1950 and settled here in california and it is to those trailblazers that came before us. i get the privilege of representing our community here in elk grove and the broader indian american community as the only indian american member of congress. but i am only here because of the trailblazer deliebsing sound who as the first as a punjabi american, as a sikh american, really blazed the trail. he was the first, not only indian american member of congress but the first asian american member of congress. and he showed us what is possible as a community. as we celebrate today our culture and how we bring our culture to the broader fabric of america, we have a lot to offer. now, it is my hope today i am the only indian american member of congress. but when i am looking at our children and grandchildren, i would like to see the first indian american punjabi american congress woman one day. and i would like us to see five or six indian american members of congress. and in our lifetime we should have the first senator in congress from the indian american community. and yes, in our lifetime we would like to see an indian american president. we can do that. we have a lot to offer. we have accomplished a lot. and let us celebrate who we are in our culture. and how our culture adds to the american fabric. thank you. thank you. thank you very much. thank you sand vip. thank you so much. thank you ranesh shamalithree bro, have a good rest. thank you ranesh shamali最後! thank you ranesh shamaliyaant for you all. thank you ranesh shamaliyaat for you all. thank you ranesh shamaliyaant for you all. the question is, america is very behind us. canada is behind us. member of the parliament. mlas are very close to england. they are very close to england. the next party is the next party. the next party is the next party. america is very close to america. the next party is the next party. the next party is the next party. the next party is the next party.