yeah, it is great to be flanked by our local assembly member jim cooper, my colleague gerard hathman, right? i guess two districts out for it, but represents the coast of northern california. so jim let me just get back to you for a second. hey, i am a left one, sacramento. i think you are 52 years. you are an uproar for 26 years. amibera is an amazing commenter. he is a big job for us in sacramento. and i really want to say thank you guys so much. the marine office is always great to have the re-election for top, but without volunteers in our staff, would not be who we are without you. you make a big difference in that. and like i said, even today working in the building, staff makes you volunteers make you. so thank you so much. there is so many things you can be doing today out watching football, minor is on right now, which is out here. and helping this men be elected. he is in a great job for california. and for out row in the sacramento region, we want to see him back in congress. so dr. barra, i am most up in respect for you. you will have near me. we both are open over at the moment, but really just to thank you guys so much. you guys, the difference is making your hard work. every door you knock on, it is true what makes the engine go. so thank you, thank you for the new for on me and everybody else. and good job. and we cannot wait to get it 48 hours to go. and it is a wrap. thank you. thank you. thank you. you are a pleasure. that is now. jared and i came into congress together as freshmen in 2012 and we could get a read there. class of 2012. i am really proud to serve in your congressman, ami barra. and you are obviously one of the most critical battleground districts in america. i hope everybody realizes that and the gravity and the energy that should come from that. but the interesting thing is in every key battleground in america right now, really famous important people are getting the campaign trust. so i think last night tim kane was campaigning with bon jovi and hillary clinton was with jz and beyonce last night in ohio. today she was with lebron james and here in ami barra's district, he is got all of us. so that is exciting. i think. and another thing that is exciting for all of us that kind of have been riding the roller coaster of this crazy election and you know that roller coaster took a crazy plunge with fbi director james comey about a week ago. in case you have not heard about an hour ago, comey wrote a new letter to congress said basically never mind. no charges, no new investigation. we are back on track. the distraction is gone and we can now work on doing the work that we have to do door door on the phone to bring home this victory. and the only thing i want to say about you and about ami and about this district is if there is one place in america where you can almost guarantee a photo finish. it is right there. so you hear about these hypothetical races where it is just a few votes per precinct and you know sometimes down to these crazy small margins, you can almost guarantee that in this race. so as all of this head out and start knocking those doors in this final sprint to the finish, just know that every single one of those contexts could be the difference between re-electing on and bear up or a republican opponent that would obviously be a shameful loss for all of us. so do that with energy, with enthusiasm, with purpose and when you are done today, do ten more doors. when you feel like you are done, when you feel like you are done, just do ten more. and think about it. if every one of you just has ten more, we are going to win by that much more. so let us do it. let us get it. let us get it. let us get it. how many there? a lot of times you are using a good guy to say it. this is what we live for. and this is how we win races. if you think about how we won in 2012, we have the largest grassroots organization in the united states of america. well, in 2014, when they threw millions of dollars against us and tried to buy this district, what we did was we put together the biggest gotv program in those last four days, knocked on more doors, made more front calls, turned out voters, so that the morning after the election, we were down 3,000 votes. and folks were calling saying, you know, i am sorry, we were pulling for you, president clinton called. it is like mr. president, wait a minute. we are going to win this thing because i know how hard folks will work in saturday, sunday, monday, tuesday, up until 8 of the clock when the polls close on the next day. we were turning our voters and sure enough, when those ballots got counted, we won by 1,455 votes. now when jared says every vote counts, every vote counts in close races like this. well, let me tell you, i looked at the statistics, gotv started yesterday. we knocked on more doors, maybe about 20% more doors than we did two years ago. so the program is even bigger this year. and we know this is about getting out there. if our voters vote, we are going to win this race. and this is about what our democracy is all about. if you do not vote, you lose your voice. and what we are fighting for is a fair shot for every american, a fair shot for all of you, the young people in this room. that is why it is so important that you guys are out here because this is about your future. our obligation or our legacy is not what we are going to do in our lives. our legacy is going to be about how we make your lives better, how we pay it forward. and at the same time, how we honor the obligations we have made to our parents and grandparents that after a lifetime of work, a lifetime of service, that they can have that dignified retirement with medicare and social security, those are the stakes here. and when we look at the values that are at stake in this election, who we are as americans, our values are one of the qualities of inclusion. we do not build walls that separate folks. we do not have religious tests that say, well, you are american enough, but you are not american enough. that is not who we are. we are a country in what makes us great as a nation is we are this fabric that is woven together of people of different ethnicities, different backgrounds, different cultures, religions, all woven together in this melting pot that is the united states and it works. and it is worked for 200 years. and that is what we are fighting for. that america that we all believe in. and that is what it is stake. now this morning, i had the chance to go to the church of unity and read the daily word and deliver some words from the pulpit. and what i talked about is our work is not over at 8 of the clock tuesday night. our work starts wednesday morning. we start to bring this country together. when we start to address the hate and the things that separate us and we start to come together and start to heal with the violence. that is what the selection is about. that is why what you are doing out there is so critical. and then let us work together. let us go win this thing. and then 8 of the clock tuesday night, head up to carmichael for our election night party and let us celebrate. so on three, let us go win. one, two, three. let us go win. let us go win. let us go win. let us go win. let us go win. let us go win. let us go win. let us go win. let us go win. anybody who is still here, jump in to work photo and then we will pick you out of here. we will go pop. one second. who? hold on. over here. thank you. thank you. over here. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. awesome. thanks, guys. and if you have a second.