[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 80 (Tuesday, May 9, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S2822-S2824]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Russia Investigation
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, this weekend we saw a peaceful democratic
election in France, one of our key Western allies in the bedrock of
European stability after two terrible wars in the last century. What
happened just before the Sunday election in France? There was a massive
cyber attack on the leading candidate, the one who prevailed, Emmanuel
Macron. Whom do experts suspect was behind this cyber attack trying to
manipulate another Western election, trying to foster mistrust in that
nation's democratic institutions? Not surprisingly, Russia.
Yet none of this should surprise anyone. Not only had Russia been
subsidizing Mr. Macron's opponent, Marine Le Pen, who is seen as more
sympathetic to Moscow, not to mention trying to interfere in Dutch and
German elections as well, but we were warned about this by our own
intelligence agencies 6 months ago.
In early October last year, the U.S. intelligence community detailed
Russia's attack on America's election and warned us that other attacks
would follow. During a recent trip to Eastern Europe, a Polish security
expert warned me that if the United States didn't respond to an attack
on its own Presidential election by the Russians, Putin would feel
emboldened to keep up the attacks to undermine and manipulate elections
all through the free world.
What has this administration and this Congress done to respond to the
cyber act of war by the Russians against America's democracy? Has
President Trump clearly acknowledged Russia's attack on the U.S. and
forcefully condemned the actions? No. Has President Trump warned Russia
to stop meddling in the United States and other democratic elections in
France, Germany, and other countries? No. Has President Trump proposed
a plan to help the United States thwart any future attack on the next
election and to help our States protect the integrity of their voting
systems? No. Has the Republican-led Congress passed sanctions on Russia
in response to this attack on our democracy? Has it passed meaningful
cyber security legislation? No.
Quite simply, the failure of this President and Congress to address
the security threat is a stunning abdication of responsibility to
protect the United States and our democratic values.
As if the conclusions of 17 U.S. intelligence agencies weren't enough
to raise concerns, let's review what emerged just over the recent April
recess. For example, Reuters reported that a Russian Government think
tank, controlled by Russian dictator Vladimir Putin, developed a plan
to swing our 2016 Presidential election to Donald Trump and undermine
voters' faith in our electoral system.
The institute, run by a retired senior Russian foreign intelligence
official, appointed by Putin, released two key reports, one in June and
one in October of last year.
In the first, it argued that ``the Kremlin launch a propaganda
campaign on social media and Russian state-backed global news outlets
to encourage US voters to elect a president who would take a softer
line toward Russia than the administration of then-President Obama.''
The second warning said:
[P]residential candidate Hillary Clinton was likely to win
the election. For that reason, it argued, it was better for
Russia to end its pro-Trump propaganda and instead intensify
its messaging about voter fraud to undermine the US electoral
system's legitimacy and damage Clinton's reputation in an
effort to undermine her presidency.
It was also recently disclosed that the FBI obtained a Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court warrant to monitor the communications
of former Trump campaign foreign policy adviser Carter Page on the
suspicion that he was a Russian agent. Add this to the ever-growing
list of suspicious relationships between those in the Trump circle and
Russia, from Michael Flynn to Paul Manafort, to Roger Stone, to Felix
Sater.
In fact, just last month, the Republican House Intelligence Committee
chair, Jason Chaffetz, and the ranking Democratic member, Elijah
Cummings, said General Flynn may have broken the law by failing to
disclose on his security clearance forms payments of more than $65,000
from companies linked to Russia. Yet, incredibly, the White House
continues to stonewall requests for documents related to General Flynn.
White House ethics lawyer during the George Bush administration,
Richard Painter, wrote of this stonewalling: ``US House must subpoena
the docs. . . . Zero tolerance for WH [White House] covering up foreign
payoffs.''
Is it any wonder why, in recent testimony to Congress, FBI Director
Comey acknowledged an investigation of Russian interference in our
election, which
[[Page S2823]]
he said included possible links between Russia and Trump associates.
Finally, over the recess--on tax day, to be precise--there were
nationwide protests calling on President Trump to take the necessary
step to dispel concerns by releasing his taxes once and for all. The
concern over his taxes goes to the serious question as to how much
Russian money is part of the Trump business empire. In 2008, Donald
Trump, Jr., said Trump's businesses ``see a lot of money pouring in
from Russia.'' This was despite his father incredibly saying this just
a few months ago: ``I have nothing to do with Russia--no deals, no
loans, no nothing!''
It appears that the Russians were some of the few willing to take on
the financial risk required to invest in Trump's precarious business
deals. Any such Russian money, combined with the President's refusal to
formally separate himself from his business operations during his
Presidency, demand the release of his tax returns. Trump's response to
the mounting calls to release these returns--the usual--is to attack
everyone asking questions and blindly dismiss the issue as being
irrelevant.
Of course, the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee had compelling testimony
yesterday from former Acting Attorney General Sally Yates and former
Director of National Intelligence James Clapper. Miss Yates discussed
the urgent warning that she delivered to the White House Counsel on
January 26 that the National Security Advisor to the President of the
United States, General Flynn, had been compromised and was subject to
blackmail by the Russians. It was a warning she repeated in two
meetings and a phone call.
What did the White House do in response to the Acting Attorney
General warning them that the highest adviser in the White House on
national security could be blackmailed by the Russians? Nothing. For 18
days, General Flynn continued to staff President Trump for a phone call
with Vladimir Putin and other highly sensitive national security
matters.
Think of that. After being warned by the Attorney General that the
man sitting in the room with you, the highest level of National
Security Advisor, could be compromised by the Russians, President Trump
continued to invite General Flynn for 18 days in that capacity. White
House Press Secretary Sean Spicer said:
When the President heard the information as presented by
White House Counsel, he instinctively thought that General
Flynn did not do anything wrong, and that the White House
Counsel's review corroborated that.
Let's be clear. It is bad enough to have a National Security Advisor
who is subject to blackmail by the Russians. The fact that the Trump
White House didn't see that as an urgent problem is deeply troubling.
I am glad the Senate Crime and Terrorism Subcommittee held this
hearing yesterday, but the occasional subcommittee hearing is not
enough. Let's make sure we know for the record that this subcommittee--
chaired by Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican of South Carolina, and
Ranking Member Sheldon Whitehouse, a Democrat of Rhode Island--did a
yeoman's duty--not just yesterday but in a previous hearing, without
being allocated any additional resources for this investigation,
without being given additional staff. They have brought to the
attention of the American people some important facts about what
transpired in the Trump White House after it was clear that General
Flynn had been compromised by the Russians.
But the occasional subcommittee hearing like this is not enough. We
need an independent, bipartisan commission with investigative resources
and the power necessary to dig into all of the unanswered questions.
Until we do, the efforts of this committee or that committee are not
enough. It has to be a conscious effort on a national basis by an
independent commission.
For President Trump, these issues do not appear to be relevant, yet
there is a simple way to resolve the many questions that are before us.
First, disclose your tax returns and clear up, among other questions,
what your son said in 2008 about a lot of Russian money pouring into
your family business.
No. 2, answer all the questions about campaign contacts with the
Russians, including your former campaign manager Paul Manafort, former
National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, and former policy advisor
Carter Page.
No. 3, quite simply, explain the reports of repeated contacts between
your campaign operatives and Russian intelligence.
No. 4, answer all the questions about your close friend Roger Stone's
comments that suggest he had knowledge of Wikileaks' having and using,
in strategically timed releases when your campaign was struggling,
information that had been hacked by the Russians from your opponent's
campaign.
No. 5, explain your ties to Russian foreign businessman Felix Sater,
who worked at the Bayrock Group investment firm, which partnered with
your business and had ties to Russian money.
No. 6, provide all requested documents to Congress related to Michael
Flynn, who concealed his payments from the Russian interests. If there
is nothing to hide, this is your chance to clear up things once and for
all.
To my Republican colleagues I say again that these Russian
connections may constitute a national security crisis. We need to have
the facts. How long will we wait for these desperately needed answers
before we establish an independent commission investigation, as we have
done when faced with previous attacks on America?
Finally, how long will we sit by before passing additional sanctions
on Russia for their cyber attack on the United States of America? That
attack makes November 8, 2016, a day that will live in cyber infamy in
America's history. It is time for the Republicans and the Democrats to
show the appropriate concern for this breach of our national security.
We have a bipartisan Russian sanctions bill ready to go to the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee. What are we waiting for?
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
The assistant bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Flake). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I rise today to speak in opposition to the
nomination of Dr. Scott Gottlieb to lead the Food and Drug
Administration.
The FDA Commissioner is our Nation's pharmaceutical gatekeeper, but
for years the FDA has granted unfettered access to Big Pharma and its
addictive opioid painkillers to the American public. The result is a
prescription drug, heroin, and fentanyl epidemic of tragic proportions
and the greatest public health crisis our Nation currently faces.
At a time when we need its leader to break the stronghold of big
pharmaceutical companies on the FDA, Dr. Scott Gottlieb would be
nothing more than an agent of Big Pharma. Dr. Gottlieb's record shows
that he doesn't support using the tools that the FDA has at its
disposal to minimize the risks to public health from the misuse of
prescription opioids.
The current opioid epidemic is a man-made problem. It was born out of
the greed of big pharmaceutical companies and aided by the FDA, which
willfully green-lighted supercharged painkillers like OxyContin. But,
in order for us to understand this public health emergency and the
critical role that leadership at the FDA has played and will continue
to play in this crisis, we need a brief history lesson. We need to
understand where these opioids come from.
In 1898, a German chemist introduced heroin to the world--a
reproduction of an earlier form of morphine believed to be
nonaddictive. The name ``heroin'' was derived from the German word
``heroisch,'' which means ``heroic.'' That is how men described the way
they felt after taking the new drug.
In the first decade of the 20th century, doctors were led to believe
that heroin was nonaddictive and prescribed it for many ailments. But
heroin addiction soon became prevalent, so the government began to
regulate its use, including arresting doctors who prescribed it to
those who were already
[[Page S2824]]
addicted, and the medical community began to stop prescribing it.
Inevitably, the addicted turned to illegal markets to feed their
dependence.
Wariness toward prescribing opioid-based painkillers for anything
other than terminal illnesses continued through the 20th century, all
the way up until the late 1970s and the early 1980s. At that time, the
international debate broke out on pain management. The question was
asked: Was it inhumane to allow patients to suffer needlessly through
pain when opioid-based medications were available?
Many advocates for increased use of painkillers pointed to a 1980
letter to the New England Journal of Medicine, which concluded that
only 1 percent of patients who were prescribed opiate-based painkillers
became addicted to their medication. Known as the Porter and Jick
letter because it was named after the two Boston researchers who
conducted the research and authored the letter, it fueled a belief that
opiate-based prescription drugs were not addictive. It was a belief
that began to permeate the medical community.
But there was a problem with Porter and Jick's conclusions. They had
only collected data on patients who were receiving inpatient care. As
you can imagine, the percentage of patients who became addicted to
opiates while in the hospital was only a tiny fraction of the patients
who received opiate prescription drugs in an outpatient setting.
But the medical community was not the only group espousing theories
that opiates were not addictive. With the FDA's 1995 approval of the
original OxyContin, the original sin of the opiate crisis, we can
literally point to the starting point of this epidemic. The FDA
approved the original version of OxyContin, an extended-release opioid,
and believed that it ``would result in less abuse potential since the
drug would be absorbed slowly and there would not be an immediate
`rush' or high that would promote abuse.''
In 1996, Purdue Pharma brought OxyContin to the market, earning the
company $48 million in sales just that year alone. Purdue Pharma
claimed OxyContin was nonaddictive and couldn't be abused, and the FDA
agreed. Neither of those claims turned out to be true.
Purdue Pharma built a massive marketing and sales program for
OxyContin. From 1996 to 2000, Purdue Pharma's sales force more than
doubled, from 318 to 671 sales representatives. In 2001 alone, Purdue
gave out $40 million in sales bonuses to its burgeoning sales force.
These sales representatives then targeted healthcare providers who were
more willing to prescribe opioid painkillers.
As a result of these sales and marketing efforts from 1997 to 2002,
OxyContin prescriptions increased almost tenfold, from 670,000 in 1997
to 6.2 million prescriptions in 2002.
Then, in 2007, Purdue Pharma paid $600 million in fines and other
payments after pleading guilty in Federal court to misleading
regulators, doctors, and patients about the risks of addiction to
OxyContin and its potential for abuse. The company's president, top
lawyer, and former chief medical officer also pled guilty to criminal
misdemeanor charges and paid $34 million in fines.
In many cases, the FDA approved so-called ``abuse-deterrent''
opioids, despite warnings from the medical community about the
potential for abuse. And when it wasn't turning a blind eye to the
warnings of experts, the FDA simply didn't engage them at all in
approval of opioids with abuse-deterrent properties. With numerous
approvals of so-called abuse-deterrent opioids in 2010, the agency
convened advisory committees of outside experts for less than half of
them.
Mr. President, I note the presence of the minority leader on the
floor. At this time I ask unanimous consent to suspend this portion of
my statement and to return to it when the minority leader has concluded
speaking to the Senate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.