[Congressional Record Volume 163, Number 104 (Monday, June 19, 2017)]
[Senate]
[Pages S3574-S3577]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Healthcare Legislation
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, we have a number of us gathered here
this evening because we are so, so appalled--and that is the word--by
the process that is going on with healthcare.
The idea that we could affect one-sixth of the Nation's economy--the
life and death, literally, of millions of Americans; the whole
structure of our healthcare system, affecting doctors, nurses, and
rural hospital workers--and that we could do all of that in such
darkness, behind such closed doors is the greatest miscarriage of
legislative practice that I have seen since I have been here in the
House and Senate.
We heard our colleagues, when the ACA came up, talk about an open
process: Read the bill. My good friend the leader will say: Well, we
are going to have an amendment process. No, we are not. Unless we
change reconciliation, we will have a mere 10 hours of debate on our
side and then amendments seriatim for something as important as this?
To say that we are having regular order, to say that we are having an
amendment process, in all due respect, is a joke.
Let me go over when we were in charge to show the complete
contradiction. The Senate Finance Committee held more than 50
hearings--Democrats and Republicans.
How many hearings has the Senate Finance Committee had on this bill,
this unknown bill? None. On the House bill--they are using the House
bill, as I understand it, as a model. None.
A markup, 8 days--can we get any commitment from our friends on the
Republican side that we will have 8 days of markup in the Finance
Committee when their bill is ready? I doubt it. Some 130 amendments
were considered. Two dozen Republican amendments were agreed to--all in
the committee process.
Then, a bill went to the HELP Committee. There were 47 bipartisan
hearings, roundtables, and walkthroughs. They considered nearly 300
amendments during the 13-day markup. That was one of the longest in
history, as it should have been on such a major bill. There were 160
Republican amendments. Our ranking member on the HELP Committee
couldn't be here because of plane delays, but she will augment that
when she gets here.
The Senate Finance Committee posted its legislation online for 6 days
before the markup. I ask rhetorically of my friend the majority leader:
When his bill is ready, is it going to be posted for 6 days prior to
debate or markup? Are the American people, our doctors, our nurses, our
patients, and the cancer care groups going to get a chance to see it? I
doubt it. That is not what it seems like.
The Senate spent 25 consecutive days in session on healthcare reform.
Again, I would ask my friend the leader, rhetorically: How many days
are we going to spend on it under reconciliation?
So, my friends, this is a travesty. Ask yourself, America: Why are
our Republican colleagues rushing through a bill in the dark of night?
I will tell you why. They don't want you, Mr. and Mrs. American, to
know about this bill. They don't want you to see that it cuts
healthcare for millions. They don't want you to see that it will reduce
opioid treatment. They don't want you to see that it will hurt people
in nursing homes. They don't want you to see that millions will lose
coverage and many more will get such minimal coverage that it will not
help them unless, God forbid, they get the most serious of illnesses.
That is what they don't want you to see.
[[Page S3575]]
They are not going to get away with it because we know one thing:
Even if the Senators don't get to see the bill and even if the leader,
who is a very good political person, gets 51 votes, the American people
will then see the bill, and they will be aghast. They will wonder why
they believed President Trump's promises that costs would go down and
benefits would go up. They will wonder why they believed the promises
that he would not cut Medicaid, Medicare, or Social Security.
It is no conciliation to us, but our Republican friends--House,
Senate, White House--will reap the whirlwind. It would be better for
them--for them--to debate the bill in open process, even if they keep
all their votes, because people will learn about the bill.
When you do a bill in the dark of night, things happen that no one
knows about. There are unintended consequences that only a thorough
vetting can reveal. When you do things in the dark of night, there are
individual accommodations that are made that are going to look ugly
when they become public. So the only consolation we will have on this
side--small consolation that it is--is the political blunder that our
colleagues on the other side of the aisle are making that will not
serve them well.
I would make one more point. So why are they doing it this way? Why
are they being so irrational, hurting people, doing it in the dark of
night? One reason. We know who the paymaster is here, we know who the
motivator is--the handful of wealthy Americans who will get a huge tax
break, benefiting from taking the dollars of healthcare away from
millions of average Americans. That is what really runs the other side
of the aisle. I had hoped it wouldn't run Donald Trump. He didn't
campaign like that, but it is running him too. That is the reason and
the only reason.
We will fight hard to prevent this bill from occurring. We will use
the procedural means we have, small as they might be. We will. It is a
small consolation to us, again, that our Republican colleagues will pay
such an awful price to help their wealthy donors.
Maybe it is not too late. Maybe the leader or maybe some of his
colleagues on the other side of the aisle will say that as much as they
might disagree with the ACA, to have a process in the dark of night is
wrong.
We would welcome discussion. That is why we wrote the leader and
asked him to have a closed session in the Old Senate Chamber with
Democrats and Republicans--without the press, without anything else--to
talk to each other. Maybe he will reconsider his rejection of that.
I have a few parliamentary inquiries.
First, is the Chair aware of the number of consecutive days in
session and the number of hours the Senate considered H.R. 3590, the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Secretary of the Senate's office notes
that H.R. 3590 was considered on each of 25 consecutive days of
session, and the Senate Library estimates approximately 169 hours in
total consideration.
Mr. SCHUMER. Twenty-five days of consecutive session on a bill that
was partisan in the sense that Republicans were angry with it, but we
still had the courage of our convictions to have a debate on the floor.
The second Parliamentary inquiry: Is the Chair aware that a 25-
consecutive-day period of session ranks second in terms of the longest
period of consecutive session in the history of the U.S. Senate?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Yes, the Chair is aware of that.
Mr. SCHUMER. Again, when the shoe was on the other foot, we
Democrats, knowing we would take brickbats, knowing there would be
criticism, but for the good of the process and the good of the country,
we were willing to have debate, hearings, and amendments. Unless there
is a dramatic change or I am misreading where my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle are going, they are not going there.
Unanimous Consent Requests--H.R. 1628
Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that no motion to proceed to
Calendar No. 120, H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act, be in order
until the bill has been the subject of a public hearing in the
Committee on Finance.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, reserving the right to object, I
remember full well 7 years ago. Senator Reid was the majority leader,
and we were called into session the Monday after Thanksgiving, and we
stayed here 7 days a week until Christmas Eve. So why did we stay in
session 7 days a week, from the Monday after Thanksgiving until
Christmas Eve? Our Democratic friends didn't want anybody to go home.
They didn't want anybody to go home and have to explain what they were
in the process of writing in the majority leader's office.
I think it is pretty safe to say that this subject has been very
partisan from the beginning. Not a single Republican voted for the
bill, and our friends on the other side have made it perfectly clear
that no Democrats will be voting to replace it.
So through that process, when our colleagues on the other side had 60
votes at the time, ObamaCare was imposed on our country. Over the last
7 years, we have all witnessed and debated its many failures. Over the
last 7 years, Republicans have offered ideas on a better way forward.
Over the last 7 years, Democrats have worked to prevent Congress from
acting. Basically, it is the same dynamic that we see today: ObamaCare
continues to collapse, Republicans are working to implement better
ideas, and Democrats are trying to prevent Congress from acting. I
regret that Democrats announced their intention early on that they
didn't want to be a part of a serious bipartisan process to move past
the failures of this law. Congress still has a responsibility to act,
and the reconciliation process will allow us to do so.
Later, after that period in late 2009, our Democratic friends used
reconciliation to force ObamaCare on Americans. It is a process that
can be used in 2017, the same way they used it in 2010, to move beyond
its failures.
I would remind colleagues of what happens when legislation comes to
the floor under reconciliation. The minority leader is somehow arguing
that reconciliation is not an open process. It is an open process.
There is an unlimited number of amendments.
First, the bill text is received. Then a CBO score is issued. Members
will have time to review both. After that, there is an open amendment
process and a robust debate. It is the one type of amendment we have on
the floor of the Senate on which no one can prevent amendments.
Ultimately, at the end of the process, the Senate votes. That is how
reconciliation works.
We have been debating ObamaCare's failures and what to do about them
for so many years now. Members are very, very familiar with this issue.
We have heard so many anguished stories from constituents who have been
hurt by ObamaCare. Thankfully, at the end of the process, the Senate
will have a chance to turn the page on this failed law.
I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Democratic leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I heard what the leader had to say. I
think anyone who has observed the reconciliation vote-arama process
knows it is not a robust amendment process. There are ways to correct
that. Certainly, we have our differences pretty much on partisan lines
between repealing ACA and amending it and making it better, but what we
ought to be doing is discussing it with one another.
So I would renew my request to the majority leader. What is the harm
in us gathering in the Old Senate Chamber, 100 Senators, Democrats and
Republicans, and maybe trying to come together? Is there any harm? I
would renew my request that he join us in that because what the
American people clamor for is some kind of bipartisan coming together.
We have different views on how that should occur.
You say: Repeal. Join us in repeal.
We think that would hurt millions of people.
We say: Make it better.
You say that the ACA is irretrievable. I don't agree. But why can't
we join together 100 strong in the Senate Chamber, no press, and just
discuss our views with one another? Maybe something bipartisan and
helpful could come out of this instead of this dark, hidden process. I
would renew my request.
Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I would just say to my friend, we can
[[Page S3576]]
have a meeting of all 100 Senators here on the Senate floor with an
unlimited amendment process. There will be no failure of opportunity
for anybody to offer an amendment, to get a vote on it, to try to
change the law. That is the way reconciliation works.
Mr. SCHUMER. I would just renew my request for one other--the leader
said no. I get it.
One more. Will we have time--more than 10 hours since this is a
complicated bill--to review the bill? Will it be available to us and
the public for more than 10 hours before we have to vote for it, since
our Republican leader has said there will be plenty of time for a
process where people can make amendments? We need time to prepare those
amendments.
Mr. McCONNELL. I think we will have ample opportunity to read and
amend the bill.
Mr. SCHUMER. Will it be more than 10 hours? That is my question.
Mr. McCONNELL. I think we will have ample opportunity to read and
amend the bill.
Mr. SCHUMER. I rest my case.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Michigan.
Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, as a senior member of the U.S. Senate
Finance Committee, which held more than 50 hearings, roundtables, and
walkthroughs on health care reform--we spent 8 days just marking up the
bill in committee, considered more than 130 amendments, and more than
two dozen Republican amendments were agreed to at that time in the
committee--a committee that posted their legislation online for 6 days
before the original committee markup; a committee that spent, with the
Senate, 25 consecutive days in session on health reform--the second
longest consecutive session in the history of the U.S. Senate. In
total, the Senate spent more than 160 hours considering the healthcare
reform legislation.
Based on that, Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that no
amendments be considered in order to Calendar No. 120, H.R. 1628, the
American Health Care Act, until the bill is referred jointly to the
Committee on Finance and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions and reported favorably from the committees. This means no
hearings, no bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. McCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Senator from Hawaii.
Mr. SCHATZ. Madam President, I have a parliamentary inquiry. I have
information that indicates that approximately 300 amendments were
considered and that of those amendments, 161 amendments offered by
Republican members of the committee were adopted during the
consideration of S. 1679. Is that correct?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Secretary of the Senate's office, through
the Senate Library, cannot confirm the total number considered but can
confirm that 161 Republican amendments were adopted.
Mr. SCHATZ. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that Calendar
No. 120, H.R. 1628, be referred to the Committee on Finance for the
purpose of conducting a public hearing.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. McCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Senator from New Jersey.
Mr. BOOKER. Madam President, I have a parliamentary inquiry. Am I
correct in stating that the text of S. 1796 and S. 1679 were posted on
the websites for the respective committees, each for 6 days? The
Affordable Care Act was posted on the websites of the respective
committees, each of them, actually for 6 days prior to committee
consideration?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Secretary of the Senate's office, through
the Senate Library, confirms that each committee posted its legislation
online for 6 days prior to consideration.
Mr. BOOKER. Madam President, with the hope for regular order, the
hope for committee process, the hope for transparency, the hope for the
chance for the Senate to work as it was intended, I ask unanimous
consent that no motion to proceed to Calendar No. 120, H.R. 1628, be in
order until the bill has been the subject of executive session meetings
in the Committee on Finance, during which amendments from the majority
and minority received votes, and the bill has been favorably reported
from the committee.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. McCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Senator from Illinois.
Ms. DUCKWORTH. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that it shall
not be in order in the Senate to consider H.R. 1628 or any amendment
offered to H.R. 1628 unless the Director of the Congressional Budget
Office certifies that H.R. 1628 or any amendment offered to the bill
will not cause a single veteran to lose health insurance coverage as a
result of the bill's Medicaid cuts, potential loss of marketplace tax
credits for veterans, or removal of critical patient protections.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. McCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Senator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Madam President, this past Friday, when I was back in
Pennsylvania, I had the opportunity to meet a family whom I have
referred to very often on the floor--the Simpson family. Rowan Simpson,
their son, is on the autism spectrum. I have talked a lot about Rowan's
disability in the context of the healthcare debate.
We have now the beginnings of a debate about what will be in the
Senate bill, if one emerges. If we are going to be up front about what
happens to families and individuals like Rowan, I think it would be
important to know what happens to a family who has a loved one with a
disability in the context of both the Senate bill and the House bill
merging.
Madam President, on behalf of Rowan and families who have loved ones
with disabilities, I ask unanimous consent that no motion to proceed to
calendar No. 120, H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act, be in order
until the bill is jointly referred to the Committee on Finance and the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. McCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Senator from Minnesota.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President, one of the things that I would most
like to work on is the cost of prescription drugs. I think we should be
making sensible changes to the Affordable Care Act, but the bill that
came over from the House does not really do that at all. Whether it is
bringing the cost of drugs down for seniors by having negotiations
under Medicare Part D or whether it is allowing for less expensive
drugs to come in--probably generic drugs or from other countries--the
bill just does not do that. Now, supposedly, a bill is being considered
here, but it is being done in secret. So I cannot have my say.
For any bill in the Senate, committees meet and debate and vote on
amendments that are offered by Senators on both sides of the aisle. We
need to hear ideas from Members of both parties as to how to fix this
bill--in the HELP Committee, for starters. I ask that we agree today
that the bill will not come to the floor until the HELP Committee has
had an open meeting and has considered amendments from both parties.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that no motion to proceed to
Calendar No. 120, H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act, be in order
until the bill has been the subject of executive session meetings in
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, during which
amendments from the majority and minority will have received votes and
the bill will have been reported favorably from the committee.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Lankford). Is there objection?
Mr. McCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Senator from California.
Unanimous Consent Request--S. 1376
Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President, this healthcare bill will affect over 5
million Californians. That is why it is so important that this bill
goes to the
[[Page S3577]]
committees that are in charge of healthcare. It is so that it can get a
hearing and members can discuss it and consider changes, and so that
the public can understand what is in it. Any bill that is going to
bypass our normal floor procedures and be voted on with only one party
being heard and being on board should at least go through committee and
have an open hearing process.
The Democrats introduced a bill to change our process in order to say
exactly that any bill that gets the expedited, simple majority
reconciliation process of passing the Senate has to at least go through
committee and have a hearing.
I now ask my colleagues to agree to immediately consider that bill so
that we can fix this process before this healthcare bill comes to the
floor.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on the
Budget be discharged from further consideration of S. 1376 and that the
Senate proceed to its immediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. McCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Senator from Massachusetts.
Unanimous Consent Requests--H.R. 1628
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, last year, nearly 2,000 people in
Massachusetts died from opioid overdoses. If the same number had died
in America, it would have been 100,000 people. Thank God that because
of the Affordable Care Act, many of those people received treatment who
otherwise would have passed away last year. The number would have been
a much larger number across our State and across the country. Because
of the Affordable Care Act, the number was low, but that number was
still much too high.
I want to be able to tell the people in Massachusetts what the impact
of the Republican healthcare bill will be on their families in terms of
getting access to the opioid addiction treatment they will need so that
the number does not continue to go up but to go down. I want to be able
to tell them what that coverage will be before I vote upon it, but the
majority will just not let that happen. They are keeping the bill
hidden. They do not plan to make it public until the very last minute,
with our having less than a day to view it before we vote upon it. That
will be catastrophic for those families who need opioid addiction
treatment--absolutely catastrophic.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that no motion to proceed to
Calendar No. 120, H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act, be in order
until the bill has been the subject of executive session meetings in
the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions, during which amendments from the majority and minority
received votes and the bill has been reported favorably from the
committees.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. McCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Senator from New York.
Mrs. GILLIBRAND. Mr. President, I am very worried about people who
have preexisting conditions. I have watched two of my best friends
survive cancer this year. They have both had intensive treatments,
surgeries, and chemotherapy. They both have young daughters. I cannot
imagine how worried they are right now because they do not know what is
in this healthcare bill, and they do not know whether or not they will
actually be able to afford any insurance coverage. I am worried about
millions of Americans who may not have access to affordable insurance
under this bill because we have not read it.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that it not be in order to
proceed to Calendar No. 120, otherwise known as the American Health
Care Act, until the full text of the bill is available to the public
for review and comment for a minimum of 30 days--that is the same
amount of time we give everyday regulations that come out of our
agencies--because this bill could have such a negative effect on
millions of Americans.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. McCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Senator from Massachusetts.
Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I do not think we should vote on a bill
that would touch every single human being in this country when one
party is locked out of the debate--not able to read the bill and not
able to discuss it and help make suggestions and changes. I think that
families all across this country should be able to see this bill and be
able to evaluate the impact on themselves and on their families.
I am here today, in part, because of a little boy named Nicholas, who
was born way too early, who is 2 years old, and who just received a
diagnosis of autism, in addition to his other medical challenges.
Nicholas is a recipient of Medicaid. I talked to his mother today. She
wants to know whether this bill is going to cut Nicholas' care and what
this means for Nicholas and his future.
I think it is wrong for Republicans to push through a bill when
Nicholas' mother cannot evaluate what the impact will be on her and on
her child. So I believe we should post online any bill that is going to
affect families like theirs.
Mr. President, for that reason, I ask unanimous consent that a
substitute or perfecting substitute amendment offered to Calendar No.
120, H.R. 1628, not be in order if the text of the amendment has not
been filed at the desk and made available on a public website for at
least 72 hours, along with an analysis by the Congressional Budget
Office of the bill's budgetary, coverage, and cost implications.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. McCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Senator from Hawaii.