Skip to content
Senator Heinrich Facebook
Senator Heinrich Twitter
Senator Heinrich Instagram
Senator Heinrich Youtube
Senator Heinrich Flickr
Home Logo Link
Newsroom
Press Releases
Published:
November 13th, 2025
Heinrich Secures Over $207 Million for New Mexico
WASHINGTON
— U.S. Senator Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch, announced that the Fiscal Year 2026 (FY26) Military Construction, Veterans Affairs (VA), Legislative Branch, Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Related Agencies Appropriations Bills passed into law include $207.5 million Heinrich secured for New Mexico, including Congressionally Directed Spending for 19 local projects.
“I’ve spent months fighting to secure funding for critical investments in New Mexico, and they are now signed into law. From housing and nutrition programs that support working families, to resources for our veterans and investments in military infrastructure that strengthen our national security — these investments reflect our values. I will always fight for federal resources that grow our economy, lower costs, put New Mexico families first, and honor the service of those who keep us safe,”
said Heinrich, a member of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee.
Heinrich continued,
“Still, it’s no secret that I was extremely frustrated with the process that led to passage of these appropriations bills. That includes the Senate Majority Leader airdropping a provision at the eleventh hour that could award senators hundreds of thousands of dollars for having their phone records lawfully collected as part of legitimate criminal investigations. And I will continue working to fix this, because I will never allow anyone to fleece their pockets at the expense of hardworking New Mexicans. I will also continue fighting to rein in skyrocketing health care costs that families simply cannot afford to pay. We need to extend the ACA tax credits, and we need to do it now.”
FY26 Military Construction, Veterans Affairs Key Points and Highlights
Congressionally Directed Spending
Heinrich successfully included funds for the following projects:
$83,000,000 for the construction of a new Space Rapid Capabilities Office Headquarters on Kirtland Air Force Base.
$80,000,000 for the construction of a 192-bed dormitory for airmen at Cannon Air Force Base.
$18,250,000 to construct a new Explosive Operations Building at Kirtland Air Force Base, which is essential for the safe and efficient handling, inspection, and storage of munitions in alignment with Air Force operational requirements.
$3,200,000 to construct a Child Development Center on Kirtland Air Force Base that supports the growing childcare needs of Kirtland Air Force Base personnel.
Heinrich also secured language addressing the ongoing energy infrastructure needs at White Sands Missile Range, ensuring troop readiness and training is prioritized.
Heinrich and U.S. Senator Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.) also successfully included funding for the following projects:
$8,100,000 to renovate and construct a training facility for Security Forces at Cannon Air Force Base, which will help support the continued growth of this Security Force unit.
$2,000,000 to restore and improve antiterrorism technology at the Wyoming Gate at Kirtland Air Force Base.
$700,000 to finish the design of a new High Speed Test Track at Holloman Air Force Base.
Support for Veterans
Heinrich successfully secured funding for the following programs, which are key to supporting our nation’s veterans:
Suicide Prevention
Heinrich successfully secured $18.9 billion for mental health treatment, including $698 million for suicide prevention outreach. Heinrich also secured language encouraging the VA to use predictive modeling and analytics for veteran suicide prevention in the Recovery Engagement and Coordination for Health-Veterans Enhanced Treatment (REACH VET) program. This innovative solution will identify veterans with evidence-based risk factors for suicidal ideation in order to get help to veterans before a potential mental health crisis.
In 2020, Heinrich voted in favor of the Commander John Scott Hannon Veterans Mental Health Care Improvement Act of 2019 (P.L. 116-171), which supported and authorized the REACH VET program.
Rural Health
Heinrich successfully secured $342.5 million for the VA’s Office of Rural Health and its Rural Health Initiative to continue supporting veterans with services like transportation to appointments for highly rural veterans, utilization of innovative transportation service technologies, and outreach to highly rural veterans.
An estimated 2.7 million rural and highly rural veterans are enrolled in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). Many rural veterans enrolled in the VA health care system are at an advanced age, with approximately 54 percent aged 65 or older. With the aging veteran population growing increasingly medically complex and more likely to be diagnosed with chronic conditions like diabetes, obesity, high blood pressure, and heart disease, each requiring more frequent, ongoing, and costly care, these funds will help close the gap and get highly rural veterans the care they need.
Telehealth Services
Heinrich successfully secured $6.4 billion to sustain and increase telehealth capacity and expand the reach of VA medical providers to veterans in highly rural areas through the use of in-home telehealth and remote patient monitoring services. The bill also supports the Veterans Health Administration’s (VHA) rulemaking to eliminate copays for all virtual medical appointments of any type and especially for primary and preventative care appointments.
Preventing Veteran Homelessness
Heinrich successfully secured $3.5 billion to prevent veteran homelessness, including $659 million to bolster the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program, which will meet the needs of veterans including help with the rising costs of household goods; $703 million for case management and administration of Housing and Urban Development – Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing vouchers; $277 million for the Grant and Per Diem Program, which will support transitional housing and assist veterans in achieving housing stability; and $174 million for Veterans Justice Outreach and Legal Services for Veterans grants to award community-based organizations with funds to assist veterans with legal issues like accessing benefits, navigating family law, and securing safe and stable housing.
Veterans Affairs Service Purchasing (VASP) Program
Heinrich successfully secured report language directing the VA to explain why it abruptly ended the Veterans Affairs Service Purchasing Program, a critical program that kept veterans who were unable to pay their mortgage in their homes. At least 130 New Mexico veterans could be impacted by this administration’s shortsighted decision to end the Veterans Affairs Service Purchasing Program without loss mitigation policies.
Access to Medications for Substance Use Disorder
Heinrich successfully secured $709.5 million for the Opioid Prevention and Treatment programs at the VA, including $454 million for treatment programs and $254.5 million to continue implementation of the Jason Simcakoski Memorial and Promise Act. Heinrich previously voted in favor of this bill’s authorizing legislation, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, in 2016 (P.L. 114-198).
Veteran Family Resource Program
Heinrich successfully secured language to require a status report on the Veteran Family Resource Program rollout, including authorities and funding needed to ensure a successful, continued rollout that reduces rates of child abuse and neglect. Services will include interventions like case management assistance to address evidence-based risk factors like housing and food insecurity.
Childcare Assistance
Heinrich successfully secured an additional $3,000,000 in the VA’s overall budget to support the expansion of childcare centers at VA medical facilities through a pilot program. While serving in the U.S. House of Representatives, Heinrich voted in favor of the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (P.L. 111-163). This bill led to the VA’s initial childcare pilot program to assess feasibility and advisability of providing childcare services to veterans receiving mental health and intensive health care services.
Construction of State Extended Care Facilities
Heinrich successfully secured $275 million in construction funds for state extended care facilities. In New Mexico, there is only one VA long-term care facility, despite demand for additional capacity and facilities. These facilities are particularly important to ensure aging and disabled veterans receive the appropriate level of care.
Medical and Prosthetics Research
Heinrich successfully secured $945 million to fund medical, rehabilitative, and health services research and support basic and clinical studies that advance knowledge leading to improvements in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and disabilities. Medical and prosthetic research at the VA includes the fields of prosthetics, orthotics, adaptive equipment for vehicles, sensory aids, and related areas.
VA Court of Appeals
Heinrich successfully secured $49 million in funds and secured language requiring the VA to improve transparency surrounding the large back log of cases at the VA Court of Appeals. According to last year’s Annual Report, there is a backlog of 200,805 cases.
FY26 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and Related Agencies Key Points and Highlights
Congressionally Directed Spending
Heinrich successfully included $2.31 million in investments for the following 5 local projects in the bill:
$1,000,000 for the Pueblo of Isleta Department of Education to construct the Isleta Learning Center.
$467,000 for the New Mexico State University to conduct research using low power electricity to manage weeds in perennial crops.
$375,000 for the Village of Questa to purchase and fully equip a wildland fire engine.
$275,000 for Conservation Legacy to renovate and repair a Zuni Pueblo building for the Ancestral Lands Conservation Corps’ permanent location and as a community resource.
$193,000 for the Gila Regional Medical Center to upgrade and replace aging and failing hospital utility systems.
Heinrich and U.S. Senator Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.) successfully included $3.425 million for the following 3 projects:
$1,100,000 for Rio Arriba County to purchase radios and repeater towers for Rio Arriba County Volunteer Fire Departments to facilitate communications when firefighters are on duty.
$750,000 for the Truchas Volunteer Fire Department to purchase and equip a new fire truck.
$1,575,000 for HELP New Mexico, Inc. to renovate classroom spaces to expand early childhood services in Luna County.
Heinrich and U.S. Representative Melanie Stansbury (D-N.M.) secured:
$1,015,000 for Sandoval County to construct and improve a health care facility.
$1,000,000 for Valencia County to construct a hospital.
Heinrich, Luján, and U.S. Representative Gabe Vasquez (D-N.M.) secured:
$1,000,000 for the Town of Mesilla to plan, design, and construct phase 3 of a town hall complex, which will include public safety facilities, a board room, and the historic Mesilla Museum.
Heinrich, Luján, and U.S. Representative Teresa Leger Fernández (D-N.M.) secured:
$1,000,000 for San Juan County to purchase a new ladder truck.
Food and Drug Administration
Heinrich successfully secured provisions from his bipartisan Ensuring the Necessary Destruction of (END) Illicit Chinese Tobacco Act (S.3148). These provisions grant the FDA explicit authority to destroy adulterated, misbranded, or counterfeit tobacco products, such as illicit e-cigarettes from the People’s Republic of China, upon import. Congress has historically granted the FDA authority to destroy certain illicit drugs and medical devices, and now Heinrich’s bipartisan legislation extends this authority to unauthorized tobacco products, thereby protecting public health and national security.
Southwest Border Commission
Heinrich secured a $2.5 million investment in the Southwest Border Commission (SBRC), a $500,000 increase over FY25, which supports economic and community development in southern New Mexico.
Heinrich successfully secured the first-ever congressional investments
to finally allow the SBRC to jump-start and expand its operations. The SBRC is one of eight authorized federal regional commissions and authorities.
Tribal Communities
The bill provides $235 million for the Food Distribution on Indian Reservation Program (FDPIR) and $3 million for a FDPIR pilot program that allows Tribes participating in the program to purchase traditional food from small Tribal producers.
The bill also provides $700,000 for processing and federal inspection of Tribal bison, which will help support Tribal food sovereignty by enabling Tribes to include bison raised on their own lands to be included in federal nutrition programs like school meals.
Additionally, the bill provides $5.1 million for the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Office of Tribal Relations, which is responsible for government-to-government relations between USDA and Tribal governments.
Rural Rental Assistance
The bill provides $1.715 billion for rental assistance to help ensure Americans living in rural areas have access to safe and affordable housing. The bill also includes $1 billion in Single Family Direct Loans to help more low-income families and first-time home buyers get mortgages.
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS)
The bill provides $1.2 billion for APHIS, to help protect more than $325 billion worth of livestock, poultry, field crop, and specialty crop production, including providing needed resources to combat emerging threats such as chronic wasting disease, new world screwworm, and avian influenza.
The bill includes $22.5 million for chronic wasting diseases-related activities, including direct support to states and Tribes for their management activities, surveillance, and testing.
Conservation
Heinrich successfully fought to require USDA to notify and seek approval from the Senate and House Appropriations Committee before it closes Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) or Rural Development field offices or permanently relocates any field-based employees of those agencies that would result in an office with 2 or fewer employees.
The bill rejects the Administration’s senseless proposal to eliminate all discretionary funding for Conservation Technical Assistance (CTA), which is the bedrock of NRCS's mission and a vital tool for farmers and ranchers. Instead, the bill provides $850 million for NRCS’s Conservation Operations, which includes $700 million for CTA and $10 million for the Grazing Lands Conservation Initiative.
Agriculture Research
This bill provides $1.8 billion for the Agricultural Research Service (ARS). This includes funding for the
Long-term Agroecosystems Research (LTAR) Network,
which includes a research site that is a
collaboration
between the New Mexico State University (NMSU) and the ARS Experimental Station in Las Cruces. The bill also includes $500,000 in funding for important research in Agrivoltaics, like the research being conducted by ARS in collaboration with NMSU.
Small Farms and Local Food Systems
The bill includes $5 million for the Office of Urban Agriculture, which is focused on providing technical assistance and risk management tools to urban and innovative forms of food production in New Mexico. Albuquerque is home to one of the USDA’s Urban Service Centers.
The bill also includes $16.3 million for the Local Agriculture Market Program (LAMP), which supports the development, coordination, and expansion of direct producer-to-consumer marketing; local and regional food markets and enterprises; and value-added agricultural products.
FY26 Legislative Branch Key Points and Highlights
As Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee, Heinrich successfully negotiated and secured passage of the FY26 Legislative Branch Appropriations bill, which provides $7,258,000,000 to support essential legislative operations and oversight activities, including the U.S. Senate, Capitol Police, Library of Congress, Congressional Research Service, Congressional Budget Office, Architect of the Capitol, and other key legislative agencies. At a time when maintaining checks and balances is more important than ever, this bill includes critical provisions that ensure Congress can effectively serve the American people and hold the executive branch accountable.
Safety and Security
Heinrich secured $852 million to support security operations for members, staff, and visitors to the Capitol campus. This funding level allows continued recruitment and retention of sworn and civilian personnel. The bill also provides $30 million for the continuation of mutual aid reimbursements for state and local law enforcement, which helps cover costs incurred by state and local police departments when protecting lawmakers and congressionally sponsored events. And the bill responds to increasing safety threats by providing $203.5 million for enhanced member security for both the Senate and the House.
Government Accountability Office (GAO)
Heinrich secured flat funding for the GAO, which is crucial for protecting taxpayer dollars, promoting government efficiency, and providing rigorous, nonpartisan oversight that builds public trust, at the FY25 level. This prevents a cut to GAO by 50% as proposed by the House of Representatives majority.
The enacted funding level protects the agency’s ability to perform core functions in supporting Congress and rejects House Republicans’ efforts to cut GAO by over $400 million dollars, which would have resulted in the elimination of nearly 2,200 positions and gutting GAO’s ability to carry out their mandatory mission.
Heinrich successfully blocked a House Republican rider that would have prohibited GAO from using appropriated funds to take civil action against the Administration for violations of the Impoundment Control Act
Congressional Budget Office (CBO)
Heinrich secured nearly $5 million above the FY25 enacted level for CBO. This includes an additional $2.75 million to address cybersecurity upgrades necessary in response to recent cyber intrusions against the agency.
Library of Congress
Heinrich secured $852 million for the Library in FY26, including $17.5 million for programs including Teaching with Primary Sources, the Surplus Books Program, Veteran History Project, and the Lewis Houghton Civics and Democracy Initiative. This is a rejection of House Republicans’ efforts to slash programs they viewed as Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) initiatives.
Workplace Protections
Heinrich successfully extended PUMP Act protections to congressional staff, safeguarding the rights of nursing mothers in the workplace. The Providing Urgent Maternal Protections for Nursing Mothers (PUMP) Act was passed in 2022. It strengthened workplace protections for nursing mothers but excepted the Legislative Branch from having to provide reasonable break time and a private space for nursing mothers’ use. Now, this exemption is removed and the PUMP Act protections apply to Legislative Branch employees.
Additionally, Heinrich blocked a House Republican rider that would have enabled workplace discrimination against those in same-sex marriages.
Heinrich also condemned a provision that was inserted in the bill at the last minute by Republican Majority Leader John Thune (R-S.D.),
which will let senators collect millions of dollars to enrich themselves because their phone records were lawfully obtained during a Biden-era investigation. Heinrich released the following statement condemning the provision:
“I am furious that the Senate Minority and Majority Leaders chose to airdrop this provision into this bill at the eleventh hour — with zero consultation or negotiation with the subcommittee that actually oversees this work. This is precisely what’s wrong with the Senate,”
said Heinrich, Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee.
###
Previous Article
Next Article
website-search