Skip to content
Senator Heinrich Facebook
Senator Heinrich Twitter
Senator Heinrich Instagram
Senator Heinrich Youtube
Senator Heinrich Flickr
Home Logo Link
Newsroom
Press Releases
Published:
November 9th, 2025
Heinrich, Luján Statement on Senate Vote Against Continuing Resolution that Does Not Include ACA Tax Credit Extension
Heinrich & Luján:
“
We voted ‘no’ today because this ‘deal’ is one that many New Mexicans literally cannot afford — and we will keep working to rein in the affordability crisis that is hurting families in New Mexico and across the country”
WASHINGTON
– U.S. Senators Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) and Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.) released the following statement after they voted “no” on a procedural vote to consider a Continuing Resolution that does not include an extension of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) health tax credits to lower the cost of health care for New Mexico families:
“Every day in the United States Senate, we work to deliver for the people of New Mexico. And we refuse to let Donald Trump bully us into choosing between a mother in Roswell feeding her kids, a couple in Española affording their health care premiums, or a VA employee in Albuquerque making their next rent payment.
“We voted ‘no’ today because this ‘deal’ is one that many New Mexicans literally cannot afford — and we will keep working to rein in the affordability crisis that is hurting families in New Mexico and across the country.
“We know without a doubt that - because of Democrats’ fight over the past several weeks - we have substantially moved our cause forward. Meanwhile, House Republicans refused to show up to work. Senate Republicans refused to negotiate. President Trump refused to feed hungry Americans. And they all refused to lower health care costs.
“We cannot and will not accept their cruelty. That’s why we will keep fighting back against Donald Trump, the Republicans enabling him, and the affordability crisis he is inflicting on the American people.
“We need to permanently extend the ACA tax credits, we need to bring down health care costs, and we need to put an end to President Trump’s tariff taxes that are driving up costs on everything from groceries to housing.”
###
Previous Article
Next Article
website-search