Skip to content
Senator Heinrich Facebook
Senator Heinrich Twitter
Senator Heinrich Instagram
Senator Heinrich Youtube
Senator Heinrich Flickr
Home Logo Link
Newsroom
Press Releases
Published:
November 7th, 2025
Heinrich, Luján Statement on New Mexico Legislature’s Special Session to Fund Additional Food Benefits for New Mexicans Amid Trump’s Shutdown
WASHINGTON —
U.S. Senator Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), a member of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee, and U.S. Senator Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.), Ranking Member of the Senate Agriculture Committee’s Subcommittee on Food and Nutrition, Specialty Crops, Organics, and Research, released the following statement on the New Mexico Legislature’s special session to temporarily provide additional nutrition support to New Mexicans eligible for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits during President Trump’s government shutdown.
In New Mexico, more than 450,000 people rely on SNAP each month. This includes more than 65,000 seniors and nearly 200,000 children across the state. The average New Mexican enrolled in SNAP receives $190 in nutrition assistance per month, equivalent to about $6.24 per day per person. SNAP benefits are redeemed at more than 1,650 authorized retailers statewide and generates over $1 billion in economic activity for the state.
New Mexicans’ SNAP benefits remain in limbo due to President Trump’s government shutdown, his refusal to use available funds at the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to fund SNAP, and his refusal to follow court orders to distribute SNAP funding.
Senate Republicans
blocked legislation
led by Luján and cosponsored by Heinrich that would have prevented the Trump Administration from illegally withholding available funds for New Mexicans’ SNAP and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) benefits.
Republican leaders in the New Mexico state legislature continue to oppose state efforts to feed New Mexicans and refuse to call on President Trump and Congressional Republicans to comply with court orders to fund SNAP for New Mexico families. Instead of calling on their federal counterparts to show up to work and negotiate a deal, New Mexico Republican leaders are playing politics, while New Mexicans are reeling from increased healthcare costs and delayed food assistance.
“Republicans control the White House, the House, and the Senate. President Trump and Congressional Republicans chose to shut down the government, chose not to lower health care costs, and chose not to use funding they already have — and were ordered by a court to disburse — for SNAP to help over 459,000 New Mexicans put food on the table. Republicans aren’t just indifferent; they are actively choosing to harm working families.
“To date, Republicans in the state legislature have not called on President Trump and Congressional Republicans to comply with court orders to fund SNAP, have not called on them to work with Democrats to reopen the government and address skyrocketing health care costs, and have not condemned their party’s decision to block our legislation to keep families fed and pay service members and federal employees. Their silence speaks volumes, and their complicity in Trump’s government shutdown is infuriating.
“It’s time Trump and Republicans get serious, come to the table, and work with Democrats to pass a deal that lowers health care costs, reopens the government, and ensures families in New Mexico don’t go hungry because of Republicans’ failure to lead. We will keep fighting to lower costs for every hardworking person in New Mexico and ensure families can put food on the table.”
Republicans control the White House, the U.S. House of Representatives, and the U.S. Senate. Most recently, Trump and Republicans passed into law massive cuts to SNAP in their Big, Bad Bill, which gutted $187 billion from SNAP nationally and could cut New Mexico’s SNAP funding by 43.9% by 2029.
In response to Republicans’ Big, Bad Bill, Democrats in the New Mexico Legislature approved supplemental SNAP funding to begin to bridge the gap in SNAP benefits for New Mexicans.They also had the foresight to appropriate additional emergency contingency funds, which the governor is now usingto
temporarily cover the gap
in benefits for the first 10 days of November due to Trump’s government shutdown. New Mexico needs approximately $81,000,000 a month to fully fund SNAP.
Despite having the funds available to pay for SNAP during Trump’s government shutdown, the Trump Administration continues to play politics with New Mexico’s working families. The USDA has the authority to release SNAP contingency funds, and the Trump Administration is required by law to release these funds. Yet, Trump is choosing not to fund SNAP during Republicans’ shutdown
—
despite a court order
demanding his administration do so. New Mexico needs approximately $81,000,000 a month to fully fund SNAP.
Last month,
Heinrich and Luján demanded that the USDA Secretary immediately release billions of dollars in available funds to ensure Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits continue in November.
###
Previous Article
Next Article
website-search