Skip to content
Senator Heinrich Facebook
Senator Heinrich Twitter
Senator Heinrich Instagram
Senator Heinrich Youtube
Senator Heinrich Flickr
Home Logo Link
Newsroom
Press Releases
Published:
November 18th, 2025
Heinrich, Luján Applaud Senate Passage of Epstein Files Transparency Act
WASHINGTON
— U.S. Senators Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) and Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.) applauded unanimous passage of the
Epstein Files Transparency Act
, legislation led by Luján and cosponsored by Heinrich, to release the Epstein files and ensure full transparency for the American people, accountability for those involved with Epstein, and justice for survivors.
The Epstein Files Transparency Act now heads to the White House to be signed into law.
“I applaud the Senate’s unanimous passage of this legislation to finally release the Epstein files. The American people deserve transparency, and the survivors deserve justice. Yet for months, President Trump has offered nothing but excuses and delays to keep the truth hidden, even though he has always had the power to release these documents on his own. As we’ve already seen from Epstein’s emails, Trump’s name is written all over them, and he’s spent months trying to keep the public in the dark. Now that Congress has spoken with once voice, it’s time for President Trump to end the obstruction and immediately release ALL the files,”
said Heinrich.
“President Trump promised transparency and accountability on Jeffrey Epstein and his horrific crimes. But for months, he and Congressional Republicans refused to act. That’s why I led the Senate effort to ensure the public has full access to information about Epstein and his network and to deliver long-overdue justice for the victims,”
said Luján.
“It should never have required an act of Congress to do what basic decency and accountability demanded. President Trump and his Justice Department could have listened to victims and released these files. Now they must follow through without further delay.”
Earlier today, Heinrich and Luján sent a letter demanding U.S. Senate Majority Leader John Thune (R-S.D.) immediately bring the Epstein Files Transparency Act to the Senate floor for a vote, without delay or legislative changes. The text of the letter is
here.
Previous Article
Next Article
website-search