Skip to content
Senator Heinrich Facebook
Senator Heinrich Twitter
Senator Heinrich Instagram
Senator Heinrich Youtube
Senator Heinrich Flickr
Home Logo Link
Newsroom
Press Releases
Published:
November 7th, 2025
NEW DATA: Under Trump, New Mexicans’ Annual Electricity Bills Are Up 8% Per Family
Heinrich: "President Trump’s war on affordable, American-made energy, his massive tariff-taxes, and his assault on health care are making things worse, not better."
WASHINGTON
— U.S. Senator Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and a member of the U.S. Joint Economic Committee (JEC), released the following statement following a new
report
by JEC Democrats estimating that annual electricity costs for the average New Mexico household are increasing by approximately 8% this year under President Trump:
“When you work hard in America, that should mean something. At the very least, it should mean you don’t have to make tradeoffs between your health care, rent, and energy bills. I am fighting to bring costs down so this can be a reality. But President Trump’s war on affordable, American-made energy, his massive tariff-taxes, and his assault on health care are making things worse, not better.
“Every hardworking person in New Mexico deserves stability and financial security. Period. I’ll continue fighting to make that a reality for all families in our state.”
On the campaign trail and throughout his second term, President Trump repeatedly promised that he would slash electricity prices in half. However, according to
new JEC projections
, annual electricity costs for the average New Mexico household are increasing by approximately $90 this year, which is 8.1% higher from 2024 to 2025. JEC found that electric bills have increased in 47 states, with consumers in 10 states paying at least 10 percent more for electricity.
Read the full report
here
.
Heinrich’s Actions to Lower Utility Costs and Fight Against Trump’s War on Affordable, American-Made Energy
As Ranking Member of the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Heinrich has been fighting to lower energy costs and fight against Trump’s war on affordable, American-made energy.
Last month, Heinrich
delivered remarks on the Senate floor
, blasting President Trump for waging a war on American-made energy — causing energy costs to skyrocket and killing good-paying jobs. Heinrich’s speech came shortly before Senate Republicans once again blocked
legislation
he has led with U.S. Senator Tim Kaine (D-Va.), which would have terminated Trump's harmful executive order that is wreaking havoc on working families, raising electricity bills, killing high-quality jobs, and undermining American energy independence.
Heinrich also
sent a letter
demanding that U.S. Department of Energy Secretary Chris Wright and the U.S. Office of Management and Budget Director Russ Vought restore funding for 223 energy projects in Democrat-led states that were unlawfully canceled. The funding for these projects was approved and appropriated by Congress.
In September, Heinrich
sent a letter
to U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Chris Wright expressing serious concerns surrounding the DOE’s cancellation of two dozen clean energy projects. The cancellation of these projects comes as energy demand continues to grow and consumer electricity bills surge as a result of the Trump Administration’s attacks on clean energy across the country.
In August, Heinrich
released fact sheets
that outline how the Trump Administration’s actions and Republicans’ Big, Bad Bill raises utility costs for cash-strapped American families.
Heinrich also
hosted a roundtable discussion
on how many jobs the Trump Administration will kill and how much they will raise New Mexicans' utility bills as a result of Trump’s Big, Bad Bill.
In late July at an ENR hearing, Heinrich
raised the alarm
on the energy affordability crisis facing working families and cited irresponsible actions taken by the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans that will raise energy costs on working families — including the passage of their Big, Bad Bill.
In early July, Heinrich
grilled
several pending Trump Administration nominees on the President’s Fiscal Year 2026 (FY26) budget request and Republicans’ Big, Bad Bill, which will raise costs on American families by gutting investments in energy efficiency and clean energy programs.
In June, Heinrich
slammed
the U.S. Department of Energy Secretary Chris Wright over the Trump Administration’s Fiscal Year 2026 (FY 26) budget request for the Department of Energy, which guts funding for energy programs that ensure Americans have access to affordable, domestic sources of energy and support our research and energy leadership should be shared goals.
In May, Heinrich
urged
the Trump Administration to immediately reverse course on its plan to illegally and unilaterally terminate the ENERGY STAR program. The ENERGY STAR program saves the average American household $450 on utility bills each year simply by choosing ENERGY STAR certified products.
In late February, Heinrich
led his colleagues in delivering remarks on the Senate floor
ahead of forcing a vote to end President Trump’s war on affordable, American-made energy. Earlier that month, Heinrich and Kaine
introduced
legislation to terminate President Trump’s national energy emergency and hosted a
press conference
to call on their colleagues to support this bill.
###
Previous Article
Next Article
website-search