and now he is refusing to attend this week's inauguration ceremony. ruiz revealed his decision exclusively here on kmir. that is right. in this controversy began when veteran congressman john lewis declared he is not going because he does not consider trump to be the legitimate president elect. now, congressman ruiz is joining lewis in that growing protests. and republicans here in the coachella valley as well as others are reacting. our kitty alvarado joining us now here in studio with both sides of this political firestorm. kitty. well, congressman role ruiz is among a growing list of democrats choosing not to attend presidential inaugural ceremonies on friday. ruiz says he does not think president elect trump is respectful of the office. state senator jeff stone and valley residents weigh in on his decision. no, i am not attending the inauguration. having an exclusive kmir interview with dan ball, congressman role ruiz made it clear he would not be attending president elect donald trump's official swearing and ceremony. it is a very difficult situation because i believe in the office, but this man is not respecting that office that i respect so much. by the way, he is behaving. he needs to be a real president. he needs to really bring unity. he needs to really respect the american people. and he is not alone. over two dozen democrats are planning to skip the inauguration. many citing trump's disrespect of civil rights leader congressman john lewis on social media. ruiz voiced his own concerns including conflicts of interest. a real president does not attack the press for asking tough questions. a real president does not go after celebrities or everyday americans because they disagree with him. and a real president does not use the office of the presidency to make millions more for himself, for his own pocket and for his families. people in the valley are divided on his decision. i think that just creates further division in our government which is definitely the biggest problem we are facing. i respect that decision. i support him in that. republican state senator jeff stone who challenged him in november says he plans to attend the inauguration. he thinks ruiz is making a mistake and should reconsider. one thing we always pride ourselves in this country is that we have a peaceful transfer of power. and this is a historic event when we have a new president. he is ever represented for democrats, republicans, the independence, party and such. and he should be there to represent us to welcome the new president. and during the interview congressman ruiz who is also a doctor spoke about the affordable care act. he said both sides knew to come together to bring cost down on things like prescription drugs and have more transparency on medical pricing. thank you. and once donald trump takes office on friday, his predecessor could be coming here to the coachella valley tmz reporting the first family will be leaving washington, dc at about 2.45 on friday morning heading here to the desert. as i say and the obama's will be on board, one of the planes used as air force one, but it will not be flying under that name because obama's to obama will no longer be in office. it will be referred to as special air mission 29,000. and no word yet on where the first family will be staying or how long they will be here.