seven months ago, jacqueline joined her father in fleeing the extreme danger and poverty of her village in guatemala. they fled from violence. however, jacqueline's life was cut short in december when she died of sepsis while under the responsibility of our federal government. as a physician, i know that the inhumane conditions at our border patrol facilities risked the lives of children when under cbp custody. that was california democratic representative raul ruiz on the house floor, speaking about jacqueline cal mckean. she is a migrant girl who died in u.s. custody back in december. she was seven. jacqueline is one of six migrant children to die while in u.s. custody or shortly after being released. five of those children were from guatemala, the sixth from honduras. all were in the custody of either customs and border protection or the office of refugee resettlement. in response, congressman ruiz unveiled a bill designed to improve the medical treatment of all migrants in custody. ruiz, who is a medical doctor, says the bill would help customs and border protection meet some of the minimum standards of care that all detainees require. earlier, my colleague, green and i, and spoke to congressman ruiz about the bill. before entering congress, you worked as a physician. in your background, what you have seen so far with the care of migrants in cbp custody, what stands out to you as the most problematic? the word to describe it is subhuman, deplorable, inhumane, and very heartbreaking to see the way that children, pregnant women, and the elderly are being treated and detained under the custody and responsibility of cbp. and what really stands out are children, children who do not have diapers, who are dirty, who are sick, being detained in very freezing, concrete, wind-wendless rooms. and that is something that any humanitarian, any parent would be outraged with. and i am an emergency physician, ems specialist, as well as harvard-trained humanitarian and public health expert. and so i worked together with other experts to introduce this bill as a response to cbp's request and as a solution to the inhumane treatment and detention that these families are being our experiencing. what changes will your bill address? well, it takes a very comprehensive public health approach to ensure the basic humanitarian standards are met to meet basic humanitarian needs of individuals to reflect the life with dignity. for example, it ensures that the medical screening has an interview in the language that they understand vital signs of physical examination and consultation with a provider who knows what a sick child looks like. it ensures that there is the basic minimum requirements of calories and water to make sure there is formula for infants, baby food, for children to ensure that there is enough space, a minimum amount of space, but enough space for individual to have a place for them to wash their hands, diapers for babies, enough latrines for men and women. so these are just, we are not asking for a lot of, or any special treatment. these are just basic necessities for a life with dignity. and you this does sound like basic necessities, but do you think that this bill can get support from both sides of the aisle? i do. i do believe this bill gets support. i have been in communication with cbp and their leadership throughout this entire process. they have requested the president's request of $3.3 billion in humanitarian aid. so this bill provides that roadmap, that blueprint of what exactly that money will be going towards based on basic humanitarian standards and norms in our country. how soon do you see this passing? i am hoping that it will be included somehow or shape or form at least the requirements and these standards and the next humanitarian aid package that is going to help the border patrol agents down in the border. okay. what you said about some news of the day, cbs news count 61 of your democratic colleagues now support an impeachment inquiry into the president. you have got house speaker nancy pelosi, who is maintained that democrats have to focus on the investigation. where do you stand, congressman? you know, i think it is important to have an inquiry. i think it is important that we have answers to those questions. we need to bring everything out to the light of day. it is very wrong that we are dismissive of the russian attack on our democratic principles. it is very wrong on some of the behavior that mueller has identified in his report and we need to get more answers. so i support getting that answer and holding bar and those folks who are trying to protect the president in contempt for not wanting to reveal what they know and to give us documents in order for us to protect the constitution and our democracy. you know, some are saying that the democratic caucus is divided over how to proceed with an impeachment inquiry or impeachment itself. do you believe that the caucus is divided? you know, i think that we are not divided in getting the sense of we need more information. whether or not an impeachment vote will lead to the removal of the president. i think that that is the question that we need to ask ourselves and whether or not that is the right path to go towards. and i think at that point there is some differences in opinion. you know, on another matter, the white house invoked executive privilege over materials related to the administration's push to add a citizenship question to the 2020 census. are you concerned about the effect that the citizenship question might have on the census? you know, yes, of course i am concerned because the census was never supposed to be a political tool. the census is supposed to be an accounting of the population in order to provide the resources needed for the common good, the common good for all of society. and therefore when you start to under an administration that has already demonstrated their contempt for immigrants to start to provide a question that will cause a large portion of individuals to be fearful of being known, then i think that it is going to skew the numbers. and there is going to be a lot of more underserved communities across america, especially in rural areas. you are a congressman from california. we know the state has two 2020 presidential candidates, senator kamala harris, as well as congressman eric swalwell. is there a democratic candidate you are endorsing at this time? you know, at this time i am not both kamala harris and eric swalwell are very, very, very competent legislators. i am excited about them both. i am excited about some of the other presidential candidates, so i am waiting to see how it progresses. all right, congressman raoul ruiz, thank you for joining us. thank you.