i am michael steele. i do not get to say this too often, but i am a newbie. i am a new member of the bipartisan sen. board and i am really excited to be here to work with my o'friend olympia. we had some fun back in the day. she called me out a couple of times as national chairman. so i know not to mess with the senator for sure, but it is a real pleasure to be here and to thank members of the board and certainly the senator for the opportunity to serve as a new board member. and i am looking forward to serving with all of you and working with you on a lot of the important stuff issues, policies that not just the countries are home but individual states are confronting day in and day out. so i am really excited about that. i am really excited about this opportunity. i am really excited about this opportunity. i am really excited about this opportunity. it is to be in a space where being an american matters more than the label that you carry or that you wear. or the tribe, since that seems to be the new operative term these days, the tribe that you are from. and the current base here at bpc is an important one. i know that my role as a national chairman was a very partisan role and a very partisan job. but i also acknowledged even as national chairman the tremendous diversity of views in this great country of ours. views that even in the context of partisanship needed to be heard and recognized. i got in trouble a couple of times trying to do that, but that is okay. if you are afraid of getting into trouble, if you are afraid of upsetting the established status quo, then you need to get out of the game because the game really should be as much about that as anything else. which i am very, very excited to talk about right now because that is one of the reasons why we are here tonight. to talk about people who kind of push that envelope and recognize the importance and the vital importance of listening, learning, and acting, and doing the work that is required together whenever possible in order to achieve the results that our communities need now and into their futures. that is the spirit of the legislative action award and it is why, as i said, i am particularly honored to be able to participate in tonight's celebration and to present one of our 2018 legislative action awards to a most worthy recipient representative raul ruiz. in just his third term, congressman ruiz is ranked 33rd in his entire party for legislative effectiveness by the center for effective lawmaking. perhaps not coincidentally, the luger center ranks him as more bipartisan than the great majority of the house. he ranks 161 out of 435 members. representative ruiz introduced bipartisan legislation that passed the house as part of a package of bills to address the horrendous and unacceptable backlogs for veterans and the claims that they have. he teamed up with republican representative chris gibson to introduce legislation to improve the delivery of veterans health care by merging the electronic health records of the va and the department of defense. and he has recently introduced bipartisan bills to allow additional federal money to prevent deadly and destructive wildfires. representative ruiz is a member of the bipartisan problem solvers caucus, which is committed to forging bipartisan cooperation on key issues. he is also co-chairing a bipartisan indian health service task force to examine our nation's tribal health system and to raise awareness about the challenges that system faces as well. of no small significance, congressman ruiz has championed the repeal of the independent payment advisory board, which is tasked with coming up with medicare cuts in spending if the spending rises above a certain threshold. and has been criticized this particular board as outsourcing the work of congress to quote an la times article from 2003 entitled lessons from a doctor congressman's first year. quote ruiz is most notable votes staking out the middle ground and defying the democratic party line on a pair of modifications to the affordable care act were not going to make him a hero on the right or the left. well, i can tell you it is that kind of willingness to be his own person that certainly makes him a hero here at the bpc. he epitomizes the reasons we are here tonight. and so on behalf of the bipartisan policy center, i am very honored to present to you, dr. congressman, with the 2018 legislative action award. congratulations, sir. thank you. thank you. wow. i did not think anybody was paying attention. thank you so much, michael, for that kind introduction and that list of accomplishments. thank you, jason, for the award. jason grumman, the president of the bipartisan policy center and all the bpc's team and staff and supporters and everybody who makes working in a bipartisan fashion a priority because we definitely need that now more than ever. i am so honored to be one of only four in the house and senate to receive the bipartisan policy center's legislative action award this year, given to representatives and senators who work to build bipartisan consensus, practice, civility and advance legislation on pressing issues. my life mission is to serve others and i do it first and foremost as a physician. and my worldview and approach is as a physician. so let me tell you a little bit about how i decided that i was going to serve the public as a physician. so when i was four years old, i grew up in a trailer park, both my parents were farm workers and my older brother was a first to graduate from high school. it was a high school counselor that paid for my college application. but when i was very young, about four or five years old, my mother asked me, son, what do you want to be when you grow up? i said, well, i want to be that in spanish. and my mother, if you know her, you will realize that she is an angel. she will give the shirt off her back to anybody who needs one, even though she, that would, that may be her only shirt that she owns. she is always so very giving. so when she asked me that, i admired her and i said, well, mother, what do you call others that is that people who serve others like you? she was very smart. she said a doctor. so i became, so i graduated high school, went to ucla, went to harvard medical school, the harvard kennedy school of government board certified and emergency medicine went to the harvard school of public health, finished, went back home and started serving the community as a physician opening free clinics, starting pre-med mentorship programs, leading healthcare initiatives and, and, and so forth. and as an emergency physician, my priority is always my patients and doing what is right for my patients. so when someone comes into the emergency department, we work as a team to care for people, to give them treatment, to save lives, to ensure that their lives are better. we do not ask our patients whether they are democrats or republicans and we do not fight against each other to see who gets the credit or cast or to see who gets the blame. so we take care of business by focusing on the patient and congress should be no different. everything we do should be about people, putting people first and improving their lives. it is that emergency physician problem solving approach i bring to congress, putting people over politics and solutions above ideology. and i make it a priority to work with anyone who has a good idea, republican or democrat, to find pragmatic solutions to the challenges facing my constituents and our nation. so just recently i worked together with representative dr. phil roe to co lead the protecting seniors access to medicare act, which eliminated the independent payment advisory board, a well intention, but misguided attempt to control rising medical costs. it threatened to put an unelected and unaccountable panel in charge of making cuts to medicare. dr. roe and i gathered 270 co-sponsors, worked it through the process, and it was signed into law as part of a larger legislative package. and this is how we working together on the bipartisan solutions can start making government work for the people. over the years i am proud to have sponsored five and been the democrat lead for another five republican bills that have become law. my bill is aimed at getting veterans the benefits they have earned and deserve more quickly and efficiently, reducing the appeals backlog, recruiting the best doctors to provide the best care for veterans, and most recently a bill which protects communities in the wake of a severe wildfire, like the ones we recently had in california. the fact is it does not matter whose name is on the bill or what party it comes from. if it is a good idea we have a responsibility to come together and support it. and during this period of hyperpartisan rhetoric we need bipartisan workhorses that stand ready to roll up their sleeves, find common ground, and get things done for the american people. so going against the partisan grain, as michael mentioned, is not the easiest thing to do and will not make you the most popular person here in dc. but when you believe it is the right thing to do for your constituents you need to have the courage to do it. it is about cutting through the dysfunction to produce solutions and outcomes for the people that we serve. in dr. language it is about taking care of the patient, starting with them at the center and devoting your life for their betterment. and that is how it is for me now as a congressman. so i am truly humbled that this pragmatic problem solving approach has been recognized by the bipartisan policy center, and i look forward to continuing to serve my patients and my constituents through thoughtful bipartisan solutions. thank you very much. you