well, good morning, everyone. this is a certainly a happy day for the gop. and let me start by congratulating president trump, what he is accomplished has not been done, as all of you know, since grover cleveland, which was a while back. i also want to commend the trump campaign for running a sharper operation this time, and i think this was a lot of speed and a lot of credit they ran up to a tax rate raise. so, i would really hoped i would be able to hand over to my successor and majority. i have been the majority, i have been the majority, the majority is a lot better. and i think, based on the fact that we have not got all the results in, we certainly already know we are going to be in the majority. we are hopeful that that might actually grow some. and i want to give particular credit to steve james. i had that job that did not rsc a few years back. i would never seen it a better performance. he focused on getting quality candidates, making sure they actually got the nomination. and as i said, to some criticism, the candidate quality is absolutely essential. so i am proud of the job that senate leadership fund and its related groups did. overall they were able to raise $425 million. and they made decisions to invest in i think all the right places. i will just run it down for you with this 29 million and maryland 42 million and michigan 60 million in montana. 3.3 million in nebraska. 12.8 million in nevada. 133 million in ohio. 82.7 million in pennsylvania. 30 million in wisconsin. and 3 million in west virginia. so clearly what they were doing over there is focusing on the places where we had the best chance to win. and i think the results pretty much prove they made a lot of wise decisions. so with that, i will be happy to see what you want to talk about. senate will talk with me. i am glad you raised that. i am really glad you raised that. i should have covered that before. i think one of the most gratifying results of the senate becoming republican. the filibuster will stand. there will not be any new states admitted that give a partisan advantage to the other side. and we will quit beating up the supreme court every time we do not like a decision that i make. so i think this shifting to a republican senate majority helps have a control the guardrails to keep people who want to change the rules in order to achieve something they think is worthwhile is not successful. and so i think the filibuster is very secure. yeah. how did you be speaking what is having a 52 or 53 seat majority mean? again, come to agenda through the senate compared to a 50 to 51. and does this mean maybe a standing agenda behind the contact theft of extortion or other things? and what are those things? well, we hear optimistic reports of what may have happened in the house. and obviously, if you were going to legitimately work around the filibuster, it would be through reconciliation. and so i think we would be obviously more successful if we flip the house and. speaker, i think could either say me saying he is optimistic. i will pledge the case. in march, you have claimed former president trump and the president of the list trump and the minister are all on the delay to frame a meeting. and is there a left person to ensure or adversary? yeah, look, i am here this morning to talk about the election. and i think i am going to largely confine it to that. can you talk a little bit about what you expect your role to be next year? when you are not in leadership and you talked about foreign policy, you have got jvbans and the vice president. and obviously that is not working to use from you on foreign policy. what is your view of the next year? okay, i am not going to speculate about what anybody else may be doing. i thought your question was what i was going to be doing. i am going to concentrate on defense and foreign policy. i think this is the most dangerous time since right before world war ii. our adversaries, north koreans, chinese russians, iran and iran's proxies are all talking to each other. they have one thing in common. they hate us. and they want to diminish our role in the world. it may seem old-fashioned to some, but i am still a reagan republican. it thinks that america's role in the world is absolutely indispensable. even if you are concerned about cost, be interesting to know that at the height of world war ii, 37% of our gross domestic product was being spent on the war. 37% and we lost over 400,000 americans. the reagan buildup without a shot being fired was about 6% of gdp. we are currently spending 2.7%. we need to ramp up defense spending in order to prevent the direct conflict with our adversaries. it is a lot cheaper to prevent war than it is to have one. and so that is the focus i am going to have for the next couple of years. would you plan to share the appropriation? i have not made a decision. i am hoping this is former leader guzzle and care what i think anyway. and i do not think i will have anything to do with the committee assignments. yeah. are you anticipating any motion to build a crash in the lame duck weeks coming up? well, we are going to finish, be great how to finish up the year. and that always involves a conversation between senator schumer and myself as to how we wrap it up. but those conversations have not started yet. just a week before this election, your biography was released. your biography was released and you put a lot of sharp criticism to the president's front. you stand by this pit of truth. yeah, i am not here to do a book review this morning. yeah. next week, your colleagues will choose the next majority leader. what should they take away from last night when they go to next year? what can i take from last night? what should your colleagues take from last night when they choose next year? candidate quality is essential. absolutely essential. and i think we had the best candidates everywhere. just for that. you stand the majority leader in this in this situation with narrow majorities in the house and spend it. how challenging do you think it is going to be to keep the republican party together if you end up with folks before? well, you are a bit of student history burgess. the senators became popularly elected in 1914. my party's never had more than 55. democrats had massive majorities during the 30s during lbj during barack obama. so obviously the higher we get the better, but this is not 60 votes, which is what they had at the beginning of the president obama. so i think we did pretty well with narrow majorities around the previous administration. three new supreme court justices, 54 new serfidgetes, comprehensive 30 year-overdute tax reform. yeah, i mean, it is harder, but i think we were successful before with a narrow majority. and i think we will be again. i am never looking at the results from last night. what do you take away from the new to the country where it is now, where it is headed, and how it land according to your expectations? well, if you are looking for a simple answer, i think it was a referendum on the current administration in part. i think we were just not happy with this administration and the democratic nominee. obviously it was a part of it. in your role as former leader, do you think your level of danger is going to be directly with the new trump administration? again, giving your criticism to the former president. i am going to do everything i can to help with the administration be successful. would you be in support of unus and rkp, having positions in the cabinet for that position? i am sorry, you said it again. would you be in support of rkp's tenure, any unus, having positions in the cabinet for different cabinet? is there any that unus, having the opportunity to have this value of your views and rkp's views for that role? i know there are other things about advancing age. if you all live as long as i do, you are going to have a hearing age on and have a hard time hearing a question like that. why do not you come up here? i am going to get into that subject. anything else related to what happened yesterday? i am going to present some of what happened yesterday and some of what it has in the base administration. i think that the relationship will be smoother at times. what advice would you have to have the confidence of your own with the new majority of americans at all? i had a lot of dealings with them during the previous administration. i think we did a lot for the american people. can you expect any flashes with president trump over nominees in case he goes more towards their economic, popularist growth? i think it is way too early to tell who the nominees are going to be and i think the senate will treat them fairly. i will aim duck question. some of the times i have a lot of judges in the channel here that they could try to push through in these last few weeks. what do you think republicans should do if that is the way i am? i wonder if you manage to be in the majority of you get to decide what to bring up and i think that is what the majority of you want to do. that is what we will do and each one will be voted on. i think republicans have the show of the senate and the presidency. how do you expect to bring up priorities like appropriations to the panel? is that going to be funded in the next year? i do not expect one. appropriations and other big linked up priorities? well, i think getting our work done, which no matter who is been in the majority, we have not been able to do that very well for quite a while. deciding how to spend the discretionary money that we have, which is not a very big part of what we spend every year anymore, is really important. and i would hope we would put a greater priority than the current senate has on doing the basic work of government, which is getting it deciding how much to spend. and getting it done is close to regular orders possible. i was hoping you could come here in 2017 and tax-effective jobs at extension that republicans are pursuing now to the bush tax extension that we saw. are these comparable periods in policy damage and what are the republican positions to use in that? i can speak for most senate republicans. we thought it was a huge success. it produced more revenue than less. and i am sure virtually all of us would like to see most of that extended. okay, i think we are through. good luck to you all. i enjoyed talking to you and it was a hell of a good day. thanks a lot. i just hope you enjoyed it.