well, good morning, everyone. this is a certainly a happy day for the gop, and let me start by congratulating president trump, what he is accomplished. it is not been done, as all of you know, since grover cleveland, which was a while back. i also want to commend the trump campaign for running a sharper operation this time, and i think this lost the beta, and season-gwiles deserve a lot of credit. they ran a spectacular race. with regard to the senate, you guys know how long i have been right. i had really hoped i would be able to hand over to my successors, the majority. i have been to the majority, i have been to the majority, the majority is a lot better. and i think, based on the fact that we have not got all the results in, we certainly already know we are going to be in the majority, we are hopeful that that might actually grow some. and i want to give particular credit to steve taines. i had that job within rsc a few years back. i have never seen a better performance. he focused on getting quality candidates, making sure they actually got the nomination. as i said, to some criticism, the candidate quality is absolutely essential. also, i am proud of the job that senate leadership fund and its related groups did. overall, they were able to raise $425 million, and they made decisions to invest in, i think, all the right places. i will just run it down for you. i think they spent $29 million in maryland, $42 million in michigan, $60 million in montana, $3.3 million in nebraska, $12.8 million in nevada, $133 million in ohio, $82.7 million in pennsylvania, $30 million in wisconsin, $3 million in west virginia. so clearly, what they were doing over there is focusing on the places where we had the best chance to win. and i think the results pretty much proved they made a lot of wise decisions. so with that, i will be happy to see what you want to talk about. you know, i am glad you raised that. what would you do outside of the leadership now to continue to advocate on that? is there a force to do that? i am really glad you raised that. i should have covered that before. i think one of the most gratifying results of the senate becoming republican. the filibuster will stand. there will not be any new states admitted that give a partisan advantage to the other side. and we will quit beating up the supreme court every time we do not like a decision they make. so i think this shifting to republican senate majority helps have a control of the guardrails to keep people who want to change the rules in order to achieve something they think is worthwhile is not successful. and so i think the filibuster is very secure. you know, we are particularly speaking what is having a 52 or 53 seat majority being again comes agenda through the senate compared to a 50 to 51 seat. and does this mean maybe it is been agenda nine to come back steps of explore other things and what like those things do? well, we hear optimistic reports of what may have happened in the house. and obviously if you were going to legitimately work around the filibuster, it would be through reconciliation. and so i think we would be obviously more successful if we flip the house and speaker, i think put out a statement saying he is optimistic. so that is the case. in march, you claimed former president trump and the president and the minister are all on the delay to the senate. are you confident that you would reject for a second to do so or adversary? yeah, look, i am here this morning to talk about the election. and i think i am going to largely confine it to that. yeah, i am not going to speculate about what anybody else may be doing. i thought your question is what i was going to be doing. i am going to concentrate on defense and foreign policy. i think this is the most dangerous time since right before world war ii. our adversaries, north koreans, chinese russians, iran and iran's proxies are all talking to each other. they have one thing in common. they hate us. and they want to diminish our role in the world. it may seem old-fashioned to some, but i am still a reagan republican. it thinks that america's role in the world is absolutely indispensable. even if you are concerned about cost, be interesting to know that the height of world war ii is 37% of our gross domestic product was being spent on the war. 37% and we lost over 400,000 americans. the reagan buildup without a shot being card was about 6% of gdp. we are currently spending 2.7%. we need to ramp up defense spending in order to prevent a direct conflict with our adversaries. it is a lot cheaper to prevent war and it is to have one. and so that is the focus i am going to have for the next couple of years. so, peter and the panel, will you plan to share the appropriation? i have not made a decision. i am hoping this is former leader guzzled care what i think anyway. and i do not think i have anything to do with the committee assignments. are you anticipating any motion to democrats and the lame duck weeks coming up? well, we are going to finish, figure out how to finish up the year. and that always involves a conversation between senator schumer and myself as to how we wrap it up that those conversations have not started yet. just a week before this election, your biography was released. your biography was released and added into a lot of short criticism. yeah, i am not here to do a book review this morning. next week, your colleagues will choose the next majority leader. what should it take away from last night when they vote for the next election? what can i take from last night? what should your colleagues take from last night when they choose next? candidate quality is essential. absolutely essential. i think we had the best candidates everywhere. just right. you spend the majority of the day in this, in this situation with narrow majorities in the house and senate. how challenging do you think it is going to be if you or public parties together, if you end up with folks and folks? well, you are a bit of a student of history, burgess. since senators became popularly elected in 1914, my parties never had more than 55. democrats had massive majorities during the 30s, during lbj, during barack obama. obviously, the higher we get the better, but this is not 60 votes, which is what they had at the beginning of the president obama. i think we did pretty well with narrow majorities around the previous administration. three new supreme court justices, 54 new circuit judges, comprehensive, 30 year-overdue tax reform. yeah, i mean, it is harder, but i think we were successful before with narrow majority, and i think we will be again. senator, looking at the results from last night, what do you take away from the new to the country where it is now, where it is headed, and how it land, according your expectations? well, if you are looking for a simple answer, i think it was a referendum on the current administration in part. people were just not happy with this administration, and the democratic nominee obviously was a part of it. in your role as former leader, when you think your level of engagement is going to be directly with the trump administration, again, giving your criticism from the president? i am going to do everything i can to help the administration be successful. thank you. i am sorry, say that again. one of the things about advancing age, if you all live as long as i do, you are going to have a hearing aids on and have a hard time hearing a question like that. would you be in support of elon musk and our page unit having a position to send that elon musk as an important being contact? yeah, i am not going to get into that subject. anything else related to what happened yesterday? i had a lot of dealings with him during the previous administration. i think we did a lot for the american people. do you expect any flashes with president trump over nominees in case he goes more towards economic, popular as well? i think it is a way too early to tell who the nominees are going to be, and i think the senate will treat them fairly. i think it is a lame duck question. some of the kinds that a lot of judges in the channel here that they can try and push through in these last few weeks, what do you think republicans should do? i think one advantage being the majority of the people you get to decide what to bring up. i think that is what the majority of you want to do. that is what we will do and each one of the voters do not. republicans have the role to send in the presidency. how do you expect a lame duck question? i think getting our work done, no matter who is been in the majority, we have not been able to do that very well for quite a while. deciding how to spend the discretionary money that we have, which is not a very big part of what we spend every year anymore, is really important. i would hope we would put a greater priority than the current senate has on doing the basic work of government, which is deciding how much to spend and getting it done is close to regular orders possible. i was hoping it would come to be 2017 and the tax-pressing jobs act extension that republicans are pursuing now to the bush tax-press extension. i think it is comparable to the policy line and what is the reform of the position you can use that? well, i can speak for most senate republicans. we thought it was a huge success. it produced more revenue than less. i am sure virtually all of us would like to see most of that extended. i think we are through. good luck to you all. i enjoyed talking to you and it was a hell of a good day. thanks a lot. thank you.