new polling reveals that nearly six and ten republican voters or 58 percent would vote to put former president donald trump back on the ballot in 2024, making him the clear favorite to win the gop nomination. other republicans with support included former vice president mike pence, who came in at 13 percent, and florida governor ron desantis, who pulled at 9 percent. democratic strategist jennifer hall's worth carp and white house reporter for real clear politics, philip webman joined us to discuss trump's backing. hey guys, welcome back. so jennifer, let me pose this to you. is it all but certain that trump is going to get the nomination and he is going to be the one on the ballot for republicans? sure. if he runs, he will win. i think that he is still dipping his toe into whatever he dips his toe into. he has not made any definitive statements, but if he runs, barring some catastrophe, he will absolutely win the nomination. the no one has rested control of the republican body politic away from him. and so philip, he is also been organizing against mitch mcconnell trying to rally support to depose him as a leader of the republican caucus in the senate, republican conference and senate. that does not seem to be going as well for him as these primary polls. what is the difference? why is he running up against the wall in the senate there? because mitch mcconnell is someone who knows the rule book of the senate. his caucus knows that he does and he has guided republicans through a number of difficult challenges. it is really interesting because at the same time that donald trump has put his image on the republican party, mitch mcconnell has gone from someone who is reviled by the right. i think a lot of people forget about this. but it was cruz and rand paul and others who were having friction with him. there were others like jim dement were constantly saying that mitch mcconnell during the obama years was not doing enough to limit spending. he was not doing enough to push back against the obama administration. and a lot of conservatives that they just did not like the guy. that is changed though. now he is turned to this sort of folk hero, this cocaine-missed sort of guy. because he guided republicans through three supreme court confirmations because he got republicans their tax cuts. i think that is going to be difficult for trump to oppose mcconnell for seriousness. one, he knows the rule book and he showed up for his members and he is really good at holding on the power. and two, you see a lot of conservatives who are saying, what are you talking about? why do you want to get rid of mitch mcconnell? he delivered all the things that you are bragging about right now. he is the one who got it to the finish line. so it is easy to get some good poll numbers in a poll based on the name id, but actually turning around and knocking someone like mitch mcconnell would be a lot more difficult. no, and that is what drives me crazy is. i mean, some of the biggest accomplishments that we touted in the trump administration were pretty much due to mcconnell's leadership, whether it was the usmca tax cuts and, of course, getting three supreme court justices on the bench, as well as just that we would brag about the 200 plus lower court judges that we were able to confirm. that was because mitch mcconnell knows how to work the senate. he knows how to wrangle those votes, twist arms and get things done. it is funny though, like philip, you make a good point. there is just nothing new under the sun. this reminds me of the, you know, fire john boehner efforts, the ditch mitch in the past. it just does not seem like it is going to get any legs though. you could not find a single republican senator sitting or running who got on board with this effort, but what i will be watching for is some of the very trumpian candidates, the eric grytens and missouri and others, if they might try to get on board with this effort. what do you think? yeah, that is really a point. i think that some of the newcomers who have not been there for some of these fights who have been in the trenches of, you know, the senate office buildings are going to say, well, we do not need mitch mcconnell. instead, we need someone to be, you know, just aggressive to fight constantly. i think about mitch mcconnell is that i am pretty certain that the man does not do anything, whether it is, you know, walking out to get the paper or pouring himself a cup of coffee, unless he is thought of all the different contingencies and all of the different possibilities of how that could go wrong or how that could go right. and i think that, you know, if you look at it right, it is recurrently ted cruz and miss mcconnell are on the same page. that was not always the case. there was a time when ted cruz was wearing against mcconnell, saying that he was not doing enough, you know, to repeal obamacare, that he was not getting aggressive enough, so on and so forth. but right now, you see a lot of the rebel rosters on the right, whether it is rand paul, ted cruz, mike lee, their interests are aligned with mcconnell's. because basically, mcconnell has said, you know, we are going to pose the president's agenda, and that is something that conservatives sort of my are in favor for. so that is why i do not think that we, this is why i have not seen this sort of inner partisan warfare here, because, you know, they are aligned. and i think that, you know, a lot of these, a lot of these conservatives are saying to themselves, you know, why do i, why do i want to fight another republican? it is already a target rich environment. i can complain about the left's, going to fox news, fundraise, keep my seat. why, why i think i am not necessarily fighting? well, jennifer, that view of mcconnell as this strategic genius is widely, you know, held in the senate, and it is propagated by mcconnell and his allies quite generously. but, you know, coming into the georgia, the georgia runoffs, mcconnell decided that his smartest move ahead of those elections was to block the $2,000 checks that donald trump was calling for. had he not done that, he probably is senate majority leader right now. so how do we square this, his reputation for, for tactical brilliance with the, a tactical blunder that not only cost the, the cost him the majority, but then is, you know, could quite possibly lead to rolling back a lot of the tax cuts that he got, that he got through in 2017. right. i mean, look, i had, had posited for the last four or five years that mitch mcconnell was just as dangerous as donald trump for the left. and if donald trump took out his own greatest offensive weapon, that would be fine by me. i think that he would get a fraction of what he got accomplished the last time accomplished if he were to win another term. but this was a, a weird conscience thing from mcconnell that i have never seen an experience before and it was actually uncomfortable to watch him experience it. normally, he is at his best when he has, you know, no thought for what is not going to serve him and his caucus. but i think that he was already preparing to give that speech about the election integrity and he was looking to be credible on that speech. so he was already trying to divorce himself from donald trump so that he could see credible when he gave that election integrity speech. it obviously did not serve him personally, which is why it was so uncomfortable to watch. obviously, i appreciate it. but this is somebody who is been a danger for years to democratic ideals and goals. you know, we forget before donald trump was in office filling all of those seats that mitch mcconnell stole a supreme court seat before donald trump was ever a thing. right? so this is his danger to democracy and his danger to the goals of the democratic party has existed for decades. i think people are, you know, sort of warmed to him when he was giving the election integrity speech and credit where credit is due. i am glad that he did. i am glad that he listened to his better angels and did so. but he quickly reverted into his previous psyche, which was to just win, maybe win at all costs, regardless of what it means to the senate or american democracy. so i do not think we will see much, much daylight between what a potential candidate donald trump will say and what a minority leader mitch mcconnell will say. but at the risk of celebrating shot and fry too early, i think it would be hilarious if donald trump actually was successful in taking him out and it would serve him right. well if i would be or misafied in defense, cocaine, mitch, real quick on the $2,000 payments, the justification was that we had 10 million people unemployed, but then we had more job openings than that. and the thought was that if we continue to give people aid that they are not working and they are receiving it at home, that they are going to be disincentivized to get back in the workforce. and i would mention, i do not think that is what lost this georgia. i was advising the georgia senate races. i think it was that the former president, the still then president was telling people, your vote does not count. it was stolen and it depressed voter turnout because of course it did. and we lost two senate seats because of it. and also they were both crooks, but fill up jennifer. thank you so much for joining us. thanks for having me. and we will have more rising after this.