former president trump did make that pit stop in the midwest tonight. he just wrapped up his speech in the last 10 minutes or so. he campaigned in ohio alongside republican senate candidate jd vance, despite not actually being invited. o'neil's sandwich is here. white house columnist for our partners at the hill and nile. i want to jump right in with you. what is your immediate reaction to the former president's speech tonight? well, there is a lot of red meat here for the republican base, particularly on topics like immigration and crime. there were some ohio specific references and jd vance will be grateful for that. not a whole lot about a topic like inflation, which is top of mind for so many voters. i would say republican candidates in general would prefer to run on inflation rather than some of the former presidents false claims about rigged elections and so forth. a very trumpian speech for good or for bad. he did, we should say, also pick up on that comment that we were talking about earlier in natasha. the idea that the jd vance campaign had not invited him to come. he insisted that that was the case. he insisted on rather colorful language that mr. vance had been requesting his presence. so there is some contentiousness about that. there is that. and you know, we do see evidence of republican inviting once again. he did speak about mitch mcconnell two times, i believe. let us listen to one of them. mitch mcconnell is a disgrace and i hope you are going to do something about it, jd. he is a disgrace. he could have stopped all of it. so nile, is this good for the republican party? it certainly is not. it is not good at all to go to if the biggest figures in the party are longer heads like this. it is no surprise. i mean, mr. trump and senator mcconnell do not like each other and have not really liked each other at any point. i should just say in relation to the former president browned in senator mcconnell a disgrace. i tweeted out an earlier job that trump had taken up mcconnell and a mcconnell aid by the name of scott jennings. former mcconnell aid, i should say someone who is worked with the senate minority leader in those campaigns. tweeted back that a group allied with senator mcconnell has committed well over $20 million to be advertising in support of jd vance's campaign. as far as we know, the former president has not committed any money at all to that effort. but the mere fact that that is being highlighted on social media or anywhere else, i think is demonstrating the fact that there is this civil war really within the gop and it is not going away any time soon. yeah, and i think sometimes, sometimes rather, what is not said is what is interesting as well. and i know, nile, we were talking earlier about whether trump would mention migrant buses and flights or if that would actually risk highlighting a potential rival in 2024 and to santis, what did we end up seeing happening there tonight? well, i guess we were right to highlight that question because he did not mention the flights or buses at all. even as he devoted a very considerable period of time to talking about migration, to linking migration with increased crime and so forth, he did not mention what is the biggest migration-related story in the nation at the moment. and i do think it is a completely fair opposition to suggest that his reticence in that regard is to do with a dislike or distaste for highlighting people who he does see as rivals, particularly florida and just governor to santis. i want to talk about the red wave, you know, following the reversal of row this summer, democrat seeing a swing in their favor, at least according to some polls. and we know that the gop is pushing crime as a narrative. we saw this tonight leading up to the midterms. here's actually part of what the former president had to say about that tonight. we are going to make america great again. our first task is to make america safe again. right here in ohio, our once great cities are now scenes of horror, riddled with bullet holes and soaked in blood, you know that. so, now, you know, right off the bat, trump painting such a bleak picture of our country, is this the winning strategy to re-secure a red wave as roe v wade seems to be energizing voters in a way that was initially underestimated? so, traditionally in american politics, that painting, as you say, a bleak picture has not been the way to win. of course, mr. trump won with it back in 2016, so that is a pretty important asterisk. but it was interesting to me the way he is trying to create some sort of connective tissue between public concerns about crime, which certainly do exist to his own make america great slogan, really trying to link that into the crime issue as much as possible. as i say, there are definitely legitimate public concerns about crime, but we see, as usual, with mr. trump, this rather lured hyperbole. i mean, he says we know that the streets of our major cities are so blood, i think, was the phrase in the clip you just played. you know, do we know that? i mean, we know that there are places where crimes have checked up, but does this very, very elevated feverish way of talking about it help, or does that actually make those independent voters, those voters in the middle grind somewhat diskind what you are actually saying? yeah, that is the question. before we go, i do want to talk a bit about the special appointment, or rather the appointment of a special master in the trump dog probe, doj probe. here's his reaction to that tonight. america's now they want to say, let us go get this guy. they have been trying for six years, they have not made it. we are not going to let it happen. so, now, how much would an indictment hurt the former president? he has already said that he would still run regardless. you know, it is a great question. i think there are people with whom it would not hurt him. we think back to the famous comment he made a bit, how he could shoot someone on fifth avenue in new york and people would still vote for him. as a basic statement, that is true so far as his most firm supporters are concerned, but there are people in the republican party, not all of the moderates or mcconnell type figures, but people who are simply with the former president's populism, but still worry about the amount of baggage he brings. if he were indicted, that baggage would suddenly get a lot heavier. and i think there is no question in that scenario that it would boost the standing or boost the odds of a dissentist type figure as an at trump-ish choice, with how the chaos and baggage that the former president brings with. trump-ish choice. all right, nile stannich, i appreciate you sticking with us all evening and as always, your insight in the context you provide. have a great rest of your evening. thank you. same to you. thank you for watching. go to newsnationnow.com to find newsnation on your television provider and do not forget to click the red subscribe button below to get more of newsnations fact-driven unbiased coverage.