 Hey y'all, how y'all doing? Are you fired up? Now let's change that. Are you pissed off? That's what I like to hear, and that is that exact attitude that we need for the next 17 days. Am I right? Exactly. I am CatCamac. I am the representative from Florida's third congressional district. The Gator Nation. And I know I'm in dog country. I know I'm in bulldog country, and you're probably wondering what in the hell is a Florida Gator doing in Georgia besides the fact that we're in the SEC Championship. My body bird is back here. He's a hurricane. So it's mixed company today. But I'm telling you, I'm here today because Georgia matters. It matters so much that y'all got a Florida Gator in red and black. That's how much it matters y'all. And we've got a fantastic lineup. David said it. The Calvary is here. He's got all these incredible people behind me, but a good friend of mine, Senator Ted Cruz. And I know that y'all want to hear from him, so I'm going to keep it short. But I just wanted to share a little bit about my story with y'all. So you have some additional ammunition and know that you've got friends all over this country. See, politics wasn't in my plan. I'm the daughter of a single mother. A third generation commercial sandblaster. I am the wife of a firefighter and a swap medic. Do we have any first responders here? Yeah. I'm here. Thank you. Thank you. Give it up for our first responders, y'all. And exactly nine years ago, I found myself homeless because of an old man. Obama era housing program. Obama and his cronies took our cattle ranch away. And now, Biden and his cronies, they want to put all those terrible policies back in place that made millions of people, my family included homeless. Are we going to let them do that? That's what I like to hear. Y'all are fired up. And you know what? When I come downstairs, first thing in the morning, you know what the first thing I see is my husband's swap vest on our kitchen table. And you know what Biden wants to do? And you know what Warlock wants to do? And awesome. He wants to take that very same vest off. My husband's back and defund the police. Are we going to let them do that? Hell no, we're not going to let them defund the police. And so I haven't asked for you because this is personal. This is deeply personal. These people are coming after us, our families, our communities, our way of life and our country. And I'll be damned if they're going to do that. Am I right? So my ask to you all today, 17 days, 17 days to give it everything that you've got, every one of us here today, we're believers, but it is going to require every person that we know, every friend, every family member, every coworker, call, text, drive them to the polls, make a plan, everything that you've got for the next 17 days. And then we will have our country back. But it's going to take every single one of us getting uncomfortable and making that sacrifice. So please, join me for the next 17 days, noctores, make phone calls, text, email, everything that you possibly can so we can save Georgia, we can save the Senate, and we can save these United States. Are you with me? Thank you, Georgia. Let's do this. Georgia, let's do this.