 Please join me first in welcoming Congresswoman Kat Kimack from Florida. Woo! Oh! You can stand a good light. All right. You guys, this is a historic day, and I could not be more proud to stand here with you all today, but the millions of Americans who are fighting every single day to protect the lives of those most vulnerable, the unborn. You guys, this moment is one that we need to recognize as a turning point in our country. Can we get an amen? Yes. I am standing here today. The youngest Republican woman in Congress, a fighter for the unborn. Because quite frankly, 33 years ago, my mom was faced with an impossible, seemingly impossible decision. The doctors told her after she had endured a debilitating stroke at the age of 27 that she would never, never be able to survive child birth again. And most certainly, the child would not survive. So years went by, and when my mom found herself pregnant, alone, scared, and with no one to stand behind her, not even her own family, with doctors telling her that she would not survive, that the child would not survive, and that abortion was the only choice. My mom, against all odds, she made the bravest decision of all. She chose life. And so today, I am here because of a very brave woman who decided that life was worth protecting, that God had a plan, not just for her, but for her unborn daughter. And she was able to deliver a healthy baby girl. And so today, I stand here, someone who was never destined to be in Congress, someone who was never destined to take my first breath. And it's in large part because of the work that every single one of you have done to support and really fight for that critical, most basic tenant that our country is built upon, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. But we all know that today, we are fighting for who we are as a people and as Americans. And it begins with life. Thank you to every single one of you for being here. Thank you for fighting for all the little girls and all the rights that they deserve as Americans in the womb and today is the turning point. We will persevere. We will succeed. We will overcome. And we will overturn Roe V. Wade. Right? Thank you so much. Thank you for empowering women. Thank you for being here. And God bless.