ladies and gentlemen, andy garcia. applause i have been living my entire life, sean, with people saying, what was it like to work with sean connery? what was it like to work with sean connery? so tonight i am going to share a couple anecdotes of what was like to work with sean connery. one of the first things we did was a scene where sean conner was going to take this enthusiastic plea from charlie's martin smith about that we can nail alcohol through because of tax evasion. so we got to the set and before we got dressed we were doing a rehearsal and sean was in dressing his golf clothes with, you know, pair of red polyester golf pants. and we go through the rehearsal, you know, kind of talked about the scene a little bit, not really too much, but brian says, well, sean, what would you like to do in the scene? well, i am going to read the newspaper, i will sit in the corner, read the newspaper. laughter and i said, i said to myself, oh god, that is what i was going to do. and brian turns to sean, he says, ok, sean, you are dismissed. and he walked off the set, came back at four of the clock in the afternoon, after a five hour golf game. they sat down in the corner and they did a close-up and a master. he got up and he says, oh, now it is time to get you. you want to really know how to get components, not into a time to get components. and he walked out and he worked for like five minutes after 18 holes of golf. and me and charlie grabbed them after the scene and said, that was very clever of you. you know, the fact that you came in, you already dressed for golf, you sat in the, you did not even play the scene until the end of the day. you came in, you said, one line, you walked up, they get a big close-up of you. the scene was over and he said, it is not my first bar, but you. then we do another scene, there is a phone call and from malone to tell me where to come. he is got the bookkeeper. so i step in, imagine the camera's looking like this and i step into the scene. and i pick up the phone, but you know, and i say, hello, it is george stone. he goes, yeah, yeah, charlie dester, get to 14, last scene, whatever the hell thing was. and right away, okay, thanks. and i hang up and brian goes, come on, come on, come on. i am going, what is the right, andy, we did not see her face. and i said, well, ryan, you know, the phone is over there, the camera's over here. and my character does not know there is a camera in the room, there is a phone there, you know. he asks us the phone and who cares, just, you know, it is not a big deal. so i look off camera, sean's going. so now i go in again, take two. hello, yeah, it is, and i turn kind of a little bit, you know, i go like this. yeah, it is something so other here, we are seeing it. it is a cut, cut, cut, andy. you need to turn more, we are not really seeing your face. and i said, okay, and then sean, here he goes, come on, kate, it is not hamlet. and there is a lot more stories that i will not say in order to protect the integrity of my fellow actors. things like, i do not know what to do here, you know, maybe it is a lock of intelligence on your part. the list goes on and on. i would like to read a brief, a brief note from your greatest admirer. and i promised that i would read this. dear mr. connery, as a young boy, i waited with great anticipation for the premiere of your latest bomb picture. i was always at the matinee performance on opening day, not because of the reduced prices, but so i could stay in the theater through the evening shows. at that early age, i was so taken by your character in those films that i took on an alias. so whenever someone would ask me my name, i would look at them dead in the eye and say, i am a mon, ramon. those performances and those magical moments in the theater inspired me to dream the dream. the dream of becoming an actor in films. i have active side by side and at times head to head with a one and only extraordinary for sean connery, playing that role of one who is long overdue oscar. shaken's turn that, baby. my deepest appreciation and admiration to all my greatest inspirations from garcia and the garcia. thank you.