please welcome california representative robert garcia. thank you. thank you. we all remember. we all remember the world in 2020. where we were and for some of us who we lost. now i was in my second term as mayor of long beach california. and my mom was a healthcare worker. like many of you i watched in terror and horror as a covid pandemic consumed our lives. as mayor i fought from her hospital beds for more tests and to make masks more accessible. what we needed at that moment was national leadership. but instead we got donald trump. while schools closed and dead bodies filled morgues, donald trump downplayed the virus. he told us to inject bleach into our bodies. he peddled conspiracy theories across the country. we lost hundreds of thousands of americans and our economy collapsed. now that summer of 2020 my mom and my stepfather both died of the covid pandemic. and i miss them every single day. so when donald trump and his mega extremists like margie taylor green downplayed the horror of the pandemic, it should make us all furious. now i will never forget when kamala harris called me after my parents died. she told me about her own story, about losing her own mother and that she was praying for me at that very moment. now we all know that later that year joe biden and kamala harris were elected president and vice president. and what a difference they made together. they got people vaccinated. they got the virus under control. they safely reopened our schools. and they passed the american rescue plan. a historic economic package that helped small businesses and created jobs all across the country. thank you joe biden and kamala harris. now i am a proud immigrant who came to the united states as a young child. we grew up poor. english was our second language. and we often like many immigrant families struggled to get by. but my mom, she moved here to the united states because she believed in the american dream. i will never forget the day that i became a united states citizen. i raised my right hand and i pledged an oath to protect and to love this country. it was the proudest day of my life. my mom taught me to love this country. she taught me that real american patriotism is not about screaming and yelling america first. real american patriotism is loving your country so much that you want to help the people in your country. that is american patriotism. and we all know that kamala harris understands and knows this as well. kamala harris is ready to lead this country. we can all remember 2020. we can all remember the horrors of donald trump. but let us remember most importantly tonight and every single day this week that we are not going back. thank you.