i am a finance refuelbastic. i am a professor here at the price school and i run the bedroes and center. i like to welcome you all to our lunch with a leader program. i see a number of familiar faces but there are some i think who may not have been to one of these before. so i want to say a little bit about the bedroes and center and then give you the ground rules for today and then we will sort of get into it. so this is one of our programs of the bedroes and center for governance. and the center is really focused on issues associated with implementing policy. so there is a lot of work that is done by people in the field, the experts in the field, to try to set up systems in a way so that we set up the incentives right, we structure the programs right and we design the policy in the best way possible. but that is only half the story and half the deal. and once it is designed it actually has to be executed. and too often when policies fail, it is on the execution side and not the design side. so what we are trying to do with this center is lift up issues around how to execute and implement policy, ranging from the politics of getting it enacted all the way through to the management, the leadership, the vision and the delivery on the ground. and as part of that, we do this in three ways. we promote research. so there we have a number of faculty members here who do some leading research. we try to lift up that stuff so that people know the latest in terms of management and how to implement policy. and we have a training program. so we actually train people who are practitioners in the field. and we do this both here in california and overseas around across the globe. so we really are trying to project that. and the third thing we do is try to get people to think about governance issues on a regular basis. and that is through the events that we have here on campus and some of the things that we have on the web. i hope you are all on our mailing list and you get our things and listen to our podcast. we have a book club now. and we do a bunch of things that i think are that we hope get you to think about governance on a regular basis and understand how important it is. and as we look at our communities to be mindful of the issues around governance and to focus on, i am going to be willing to invest and have that happen. in terms of events, this is a lunch with the leader event. we design this specifically and purposefully to be intimate, to be an opportunity for all of you to really talk with the person who is the guest for the day. and rather than just listen to the person talk and then have three or four questions as you wish you asked and knew you would never get a chance to do. this is really structured for this to be your time. and so we do not really have an agenda. we do not have, you know, i have asked them, you are not to give a speech. and rather what i want to do is just do some quick introductions so everybody knows who is in the room. and then we open the floor up to talk about whatever it is you want to talk about. i will be the moderator, but other than that, this is really your time. when thank you for being here. and maybe we could start with just a little bit about your background that you have to be super extended. but that is how did you get to where you are and give us a little sense of your journey? well, first thank you all for coming for lunch. i appreciate the invitation. it is always good to be on campus. start off by saying i am a graduate of the annabrik school here at sc. and so i did my graduate work there. and the new building is fantastic. as is the new price building. i have also had the great pleasure of teaching here part time. and for the last almost four years now, i have taught part time in a few courses at soulprice here and also at annabrik. and so i have had the chance to come back and to be involved with a lot of the issues you are all involved with. and i think the faculty here just do a great job. i am so proud that having been a graduate and seeing what the faculty are doing with the students are doing, the research. and so i have a very big, big place in my heart for usc as a, as a trojan myself. just to go, to go back, i was born in lima, peru. we have another peruvian american here, peruvian here. and i came to the us when i was five years old. so i came in a very typical immigrant experience, like a lot of immigrants that arrived to the us when they are young. i came here with eight other members of my family. we all arrived and kind of bounced around most of my childhood. we went from norwalk to downey to los angeles to parts of the san gabriel valley and just kind of went where, you know, we are family found work or whatever was convenient for, for the house. well, that is the time for the house. well, that is the time during that time and that really was all through, through the point where i graduated high school. we were a family that relied a lot on each other. we did not have very much. we certainly classify ourselves as a, you know, a low income immigrant family. but we are very strong, well, committed to, you know, to kind of work in hard. and i always say that my mom is very typical of that kind of immigrant woman that wants, that brought us here for a better life or a family. and so she and my grandmother did a great job, i think, of just keeping the family together and kind of in tough times. but we never felt growing up. i never felt growing up like i had less than everybody else, even though i did. it was a really great, great family to be in. growing up and what brought me to long beach, it is kind of an interesting story is, you are never growing up expect that you are going to go to college or expect what your life's going to be like. and when we all came over, english was all of our second languages. so we were spanish speaking. that was what we knew. and then we just began to learn, learn the language. and when i was in high school, and i became more aware of kind of what my surroundings, we would almost three or four times every summer throughout high school, middle school and parts of growing up. we would come to a beach in long beach called mother's beach. a few that are from long beach or from middle with mother's beach, it is a really small beach in long beach. without, you know, it is kind of small for kids. and so we would go there and on the way to mother's beach, my mother who did not try to keep telling me you are going to go to college, you are going to get an education. because knowing my family had much more than a middle school education, the only way to get to mother's beach off the freeway from a layer of the tangaro valley from the 605 was to pass by cal state long beach. and we would pass by cal state long beach and my mom would literally say, hey, you are going to she would point out and say, you are going to go to college. that is a college, that is a university, you are going to go to university. so when it was time for me to apply to college, i literally applied to one school. i applied to cal state long beach. because that is all i knew. i just figured that was my college, what i knew of what college was. and i ended up at cal state long beach. we, you know, we was fortunate enough to live, i live in the dorms. and we just had a great experience. and for me getting to college, while i got to college, was around the same time i also became a us citizen. so those were two very, those for me were the two kind of defining moments of my life, being at this place that kind of opened my eyes to the rest of the world. and then becoming, i finally felt like a full participant in my community. i felt like i had the ability. i was as american, as i could be as involved as any of my classmates or friends. it really made me feel, give me a lot of confidence to be quite frank. and while i was in college, i explored, i think i grew up really quickly. and then i really got focused on education. i gained a couple really strong faculty mentors. and i will say that if not for those two faculty mentors as an undergrad, i would not have kind of pursued leadership or challenged myself. and i was fortunate that i had a faculty that challenged me and that always told me, you know what, you can go to graduate school or you can get involved in leadership. you can do, you can do more than what you are doing. and that is when i made the decision when i was in college. i had done some leadership stuff, but not anything big. i actually ended up running for student body president to be honest, partly on a joke as, as my friends said you should run. i said, oh, i will run, but i did not expect to win. and then i won. and then so i thought that was my first very small taste. i was elected student body president at cal state long beach. by then i had knew i want to go to graduate school. i left the campus. i came to usc about two years later to annemburg for the graduate program there, which ended up meeting a french for life and people that i will never, i will never lose touch with. and then i immediately after graduate school began teaching part time, i speak full time in high school. and then i taught part time at cal state long beach in long beach city college. and that is when everything became i got involved in education. i started teaching more. i began to i got a full time job in the administration at long beach city college. i got invited back to come to cheer at annemburg first. then i started teaching part time at seoul. and while that started happening, i got really involved in the city. this was now probably about eight or nine years ago. i ended up becoming president of my neighborhood association because quite frankly, you i bought a home for the first time. and the first thing you realize you, you know, you buy a home, you start looking around, i have an investment. what am i going to make my investment better. and that is how it really starts. and i started getting all my neighborhood ran for the city council. i got elected to the city council. and then if i rewind a set a year ago, i was in my i was serving just my first term on the city council. and my plan was always just to run for a second term. and our mayor decided kind of at the last minute not to run for a last third term, which he was initially going to run for. and so he made the decision to not run. and i decided the next day that i would run. and i was not the favorite to win. i do not think. i think the favorite to win was a sitting member of the state legislature, who was her and her and her family had 123 straight elections. so they are a family. so it is she was in the legislature. her ex hub was in congress representing long beach. her son and law was a judge. and her daughter in law was on the city council. and the family had won 23 elections never lost. so everyone had told me at the time, well, you are not going to win. you know, you are too young and everything else that you hear. and so i ran. i made it into the top two. she ended up placing third. and, you know, four or five months, four or five months ago, i got elected mayor. and now i have been mayor for about a little over 100 days. and i am 36 years old. i have i have an edd in education. i initially thought i would be a quite i was on the track initially where i really wanted to be an education. not just an administrator, but i wanted to explore how education impacts, particularly communities that have access to graduate education, which is what i was interested in. and i still am. and i always say, whenever this is all done, i am going to go back to a college and, you know, and enjoy myself. but here we are. and so a mayor of long beach, long beach is the 32nd largest city in the country. the largest seaport complex in the united states. it has, you know, obviously home to cal state long beach, which is the number one applied to cal state in the state of california, which is great for the we have the system office for the california state university there. it is a second largest city in the county. it is one of the most diverse populations in the country. it is a great place full of neighborhoods, all sorts of people, huge coastline and really proud of it. long beach is i have lived there for 20 years. and and that is that is the story. well, that is quite a story. you know, i have not really heard the accidental council member, the accidental mayor. it was not totally accidental. i did not think it was really that accidental. and then you actually gave a shout out to faculty, which rarely happens in these things. so i appreciate that. so lots of ways we can go, but let us just open this up and folks have questions. okay. hi. thank you so much for sharing this really touching your story. so now that you are a very young me, i am sure that you have had a lot of experiences working with people of different ages, different temperaments. so in the last 100 years, what two or three lessons have we gained as a leader managing people of these different backgrounds? well, i think, you know, one thing that one thing that i learned kind of growing up is i was always different. so i am gay. i am openly and i have been obviously that is something that i struggled with when i was younger. i was an immigrant. i remember when i was particularly in the fourth or fifth grade and i was trying to really master english. i remember i had a very thick accent. and that was very difficult for me because i would get teased for having this, this, i did not think it was an accent. i think everyone in my family talked. but i remember forcing myself to try to overcome that, you know. and that experience kind of taught me to celebrate diversity and just, i think, i think differences is what makes everything great. so when people are come from different points of view, even a point of view politically that i might disagree with, i always welcome that. you know, i, i, i think that work, the, what, working with different types of opinions, i think they are really good thing. i think it makes democracy stronger. i think that it is good to have debate. it is good to have different points of view. and i, i always welcome that. and so i think that sometimes we try to make everything the same and expect people or we want to hear things that we enforce our beliefs. and i usually like the opposite of that. so i want to, i think i am going to sharpen his question a little bit. you are a young guy, right? you come into a major city. all the division directors are older than you are. they all have more experience than you. and here you come waltzing in. yeah, did you got any pushback? do people like look at you and say, yeah, i hear what you are saying, but you do not really know what you are talking about. like, has that happened at all? and if, if it has not, you know, why not? because that would be the natural course of things i would think. i think that is, yeah, i think, well, there is a couple things. i think one, one of the great things about getting a complete education and a graduate education is that as, as you move forward, you have a certain level of knowledge of the way things work. and i think that regardless of your age, going to graduate school or getting an education at a great university, being involved in research or being involved in gaining knowledge gives you a, a, a base level of information that you can use regardless of age. so i always felt like i could have a intellectual discussion or have a debate based on facts and knowledge because i love to consume information, even, you know, even at, whatever, you know, at 36, i feel like i know a lot about a lot of things because i try to consume, i read, i get information. and so that gives, i think that gives you a certain level of confidence. but absolutely, i mean, i will tell you that being when i was, when i was running, it is difficult. i mean, i, when i ran in the fields for mayor, i was by far the youngest. in fact, i mean, i was probably the youngest by, you know, 20 years. and so when you, when you look at, actually that is not true. there is one other, one other guy that was maybe four or five years older than i am, but, but majority of the rest of the folks were, were older. and so when you, you deal with that all the time, i would get all the time, all you are too young or you do not have enough experience or, and the media would cover me as like kind of the younger candidate sometimes. i think what helped was that i had a strong education. i used a lot. i actually tried to use that to as an advantage. so i would, i would try to focus on the fact that i had, you know, that i had a graduate experience that i had, you know, taught that i had started a small business that i had been, you know, had a lot of experience as a city council member. but then i try to use it as an advantage. so i thought, well, they are going to use it against me, which they, which they did. but then i try to flip it. so what does someone at 36 bring? it is different. yeah. okay. so i am now the, you know, in the youngest mayor that cities ever had. but what are the benefits? and i would talk to people. i can, i can talk about creating a government of the future. what are the 21st century government look like? how do we communicate in new ways using, you know, social media and other tools? and how do we energize young people to get involved? the next generation of leaders. and so i tried to do that. but i have had moments both of those accounts and i am a campaign where i even had meetings. i remember one particular, i had a breakfast meeting where someone thought i was the waiter and they were meeting me for lunch. and that is happened to me oftentimes. they come up to you and they are like, oh, you know, can i take my order? and i said, oh, i said, you know, i am robert garcia. i am here to meet you. i am like, oh, i am so sorry. so i, you know, i get that all i get that. and that is okay. but you just kind of get used to it. you know, you get used to it. i, you just, it is part of, it is been in my dna for a long time. and i think that we should not regard people regardless of their age and be, should not, that is not a good reason for me. so, so just as a, as a point for everyone, do not ask random people, will they take your order? just, just let them ask, can i take your order for it? and that is happened to me multiple times in my life, by the way. so i am sure it has a lot of people. other questions? yes. so i would like to hear your position on minimum wage. there cannot be in across the country now to raise minimum wage and election results last week. you know, in various areas across the country voted to raise minimum wage. and i just like to hear what your position on that is and any potential policy. sure. i have councilor mungo over here. she is like, what is your position? so, let me, let me, let me tell you. so one, i, i was reading something the other day, which i think is, is, is so telling that, you know, 50 years ago, the largest, america's largest job, job producer was gm. and the average, the average wage at gm was $50 an hour. today our largest producer of jobs is walmart. and the national average wage is $8. so i think when you look, that statistic in itself is, should, should cause heartburn to anyone, regardless of politically where people are at. and when i was on the council, i supported a ballot measure to raise the living wage for hotel and convention center and airport kind of the tourism and travel industry folks. i supported a living wage that was on the ballot. and i also voted for it at the city council. and so from a, a policy point of view, i do support when, when you are able to raise a wage in a reasonable wage. so, in a reasonable, unresponsible way that will not, that will not be a detriment to the economy that you are working in. i think it is, i think you should absolutely make that decision. is the minimum wage today in the country, the federal minimum wage, too low, absolutely. should the wage even be higher in the state of california, i believe it should. i know that it is going up over the next few years. and to, to the larger point, right now there is a movement in los angeles and a lot of other cities to raise the minimum wage. in some cases, there is a discussion to raise it to $15. mayor garcetti has proposed to raise it to $13.25 over three years. other cities, pasadena, santa monica, glendale, a few others are right now debating whether or not to raise the minimum wage and what it should be raised to. so, in the middle of $15, germantusco, i think $15, i think san diego went to $15. so, it is happening, what is happening is cities are now taking on that challenge. so, back to long beach. right now, my position has been, you know, i have been mayor for 100 days. do i, do i think that there is an opportunity for us to have a discussion sometime in the next year or two about what the minimum wage should be in long beach? absolutely. do i personally think that the minimum wage should be higher? i do. is that something that is at the top of the agenda, that the council and i are discussing it is not. and the reason is because we have three or four or five really big issues that we are dealing with right now. but, i will tell you this, and is if los angeles increases at 1325 or more and all the other cities in la county do and the county, the board of supervisors is also debating whether they are going to do a minimum wage increase in different parts of an incorporated areas as well. so, what i think will be, what i think is not beneficial to long beach is to be this large, second largest city in a county where wages have been, have risen everywhere else and then we become this poverty pocket where our wages are not where other wages are in the area. that is a honest discussion that we are going to have to have in long beach. we are not having it right now. i do not expect we are going to have it any time in the next few months or in your future, but we will have it. with that, i think it is important to note that long beach, like a lot of cities, we have a poverty issue that is real. we have 20% one in five of our residents are living in poverty or at the poverty line. and they are having to make real tough choices about what to do. and so, it is giving someone an increase in wage always the answer, it is not. does it sometimes hurt small businesses? absolutely. does it cause some businesses to close? it does. i mean, this is all, these are all facts, you know. and so, when you have the way increases to the wage, you have to weigh the economic impacts. and so, what we are trying to do first is put together a comprehensive economic development plan for the city that looks at education, that looks like technology and innovation, that looks at maximizing healthcare service and what we have to see what we can do to work with. to see what we can do to address the poverty rate, because we know the wage issue is a much bigger debate that will happen. if you would not help with this, you should definitely give us a call. okay. people in our building would be very pleased to weigh in. dr. garcia, i understand you owe into news organization in 2000 and you also remember that in every faculty, so i would be curious to know what the impacts of communications and the media and the participants of the media have been in terms of your governing style. huge influence. so, when i went to, when i was a graduate student here, i became fascinated when i was in annabberg with hyperlocal news. and the way that kind of hyperlocal news outlets were kind of changing the way news is being reported and the way people get information, how, at the time, how new technology was changing the way people consume the news. whether it is now on your twitter feed or whether you are getting it from a smaller news source and not the traditional paper every day. so, i got interested in that and so a friend and i started a small business, which was a hyperlocal news website called the long beach post. today, it is a very successful business in long beach. i have, i dispose of kind of my shares of the company before i was installed as mayor because i thought it would be odd to be mayor and to have a, you know, control the press. and it is one of the kind of top news producers of content in the city. and so, it is got something to, i think it has something close to 50,000 kind of online subscribers and is really well read. and so, but creating that, that, that business and to be very honest, my business partner is really the one that created and that really is a one that really developed it. i was providing kind of articles and why i was half of the, of the team, he really, is the one that built that organization. and so, and he ran it. he passed away, like two years ago in a pretty tragic car accident. and so that is kind of when i begin to vesting myself of it because i really could not do it. but what i learned is that you have to use every channel of communication available to communicate to the public. and you cannot just rely on traditional sources of communication. you cannot just rely on just the news covering things and then, and then, and then people, assuming that people are going to get all the information from, from the newspaper, because they are not. i mean, i, i, i communicate extensively through social media. i think it is a very powerful tool. i get as many people that send me facebook messages that i do oftentimes like emails to my office. because people just view that connection, whether it is through twitter or whether it is through, i have a pretty good network of folks that i, that i communicate with. and so i think you have to create your own ways of communicating. and i think that, that is the question about, about age, i think that being having kind of grown up in that change in the digital environment has helped me greatly. the, the piece of your story that resonated with me was how you started off as head of your neighborhood association. and i think actually one of long beach's strengths, we have a lot of really active people in the community. i live in the big spinels area, and the flares, we are right in my neighborhood. and i think what i see in my neighborhood is economic development, opportunity really coming from the community. and so now, as, as a policy maker on larger level, how do you see really implementing that on a more sort of formal basis, sort of empowering local residents to, to sort of support their activities in their communities? you said economic development, is that what you said? well, i can now do a sort of general activities opportunities within the city. well, i think, you know, there is like a macro and macro way of looking at obviously at economic development. but i think that what we are trying to do is come up with right now, a long-term view of what economic development is going to look like in long beach. you know, stacey, who is at the end over there, is one of our nine, one of the nine council members that we have. and she also, what is interesting is, you know, the council went very young this year. in fact, i think the average age is, what is the average age on the council? it can take out one person, it is 36. yeah, wow. and so it is never been like this before. it is great. i love it. stacey's chair of our economic development and finance committee. and one of the things that we are trying to do right now is come up with this kind of new kind of tenure plan for what economic development will look like in long beach. and we are putting together, i am kind of be appointing kind of an all-star 11 member commission to look at that. that commission and group actually tonight at the city council meeting, the council will be voting to restructure that commission so that we can do the things that i am talking about. so i need your vote on that, stacey. so from there, that commission will then work with stacey's committee and develop and present to the full city council a kind of tenure roadmap for economic development that is going to do a few things. one is talk about those kind of macro issues like the new economy. how is healthcare changing the way we do business in the city? what is the future of transportation look like at the port of long beach? how is technology changing or work spaces, those types of issues? but then hopefully also talk about the strength of our business quarters. like bixby nolts is a massive success story. how did that happen? because it was city investment, but also because it was great people like the blair cones and the business groups and neighborhood association. they are doing some of that grassroots work to make the neighborhood strong. so we are hopeful that right now our plan is to develop that sometime in the first quarter of 2015, that plan that we presented at the council, the council will adopt it, and then we will begin implementation. we have restructured also in my proposed budget this year. i recreated a new bureau, which is the new economic development and property management bureau for the city of long beach, which will help guide this plan as well. so can i ask you? i will ask this differently because you later sound like it says i am a big happy family and all the neighborhood associations get together and we all just want to do the same thing. when you are running a neighborhood association, you definitely have views and the notion of self-determination and all that. but now you are the mayor, right? and you have, i do not know how many neighborhood associations there are in long beach. there is a lot. i would imagine. and they are all going to want to push back against what you want to do per se. how do you manage that? how are you navigating that? i know it is only been a hundred days. so we are still learning our relationships. but that is got to be something that is a challenge and ongoing struggle. that is a great question. let me first say that one of the things i am so thankful for in retrospect, even though it was terrible, when i was going through it, is that a tough campaign makes you a tougher mayor. and my skin is so thick because i went through 10 months of hell. and particularly the last four months, three months of that campaign, i was waking up with my partner and turning on the tv and seeing commercials about how horrible the person i was. receiving mail into my mailbox every day saying that robert garcia is unethical or he is mismanaging taxpayer money or he did not have the experience. whatever it was, the campaign that i just finished as mayor was the most expensive race for mayor we have had. tons of outside interest money. my opponent was a self-funded millionaire. so he spent of his own money about $900,000 on top of what he raised. so i was out in the final election. i was outspent probably two to one. fortunately the outside groups came in and supplemented that for both sides. but when you go to this really tough campaign where it is really a knife fight, i mean it is a life or death. every day you are getting attacked, you are getting hit. people are saying horrible things about you, you are reading horrible things about yourself in the newspaper. people are talking about you like they know you and you are like, what is happening to my, your life almost is lived. like you are watching this caricature of yourself and it is not really you. and you are doing the same thing by the way. i attacked him and hit him back as much as he was attacking me because unfortunately that is what politics is. that experience today i am so immune to letting things that would normally bother me, bother me anymore. and i think that an important rule for me of governance is if you are in this business to make everyone happy you are in the wrong business. this is not the make everyone happy business. this is the hopefully you have listened to the community. you have your own core set of values and ideals and then you are going to i was elected to implement those. and i am going to stand up for those and you know some really good advice i got from a former political friend was the most popular day. the day that you are the most popular as an elected official is your first day in office. and then you are going to start making decisions and not and people are not going to love every decision you make but that is okay. i love you know there is a lot of quotes about those that make the big differences in life or those that fought for what they believe then. and were not always the most popular or were not always but you know but did the right thing. and so i hope that i can i know what my personal beliefs are and i do not mind ruffling feathers now when i read something you know that someone said negative about me. i absorb it. i try to learn from it but it does not really bother me look at you to bother me. it just is is what it is. now oftentimes read like and my partner always says why are you reading the comments sections of these things. and i do not know i am just sort of kept reading them. yeah and i will be reading these things and i hear these people have conversations about me or something i am doing and i am going you know they have never met these folks and they are just talking about how violent i am. you just have to sit back and go you know that is just it is what it is. and so you just kind of develop brush off. that is very zen. i am at a good place with that now. alright yes. glad to hear that. when you are talking about the minimum wage you mentioned that there are a few things that were sort of higher up on the priority list right now. some of the biggest issues along with just facing. it is wondering what those issues are and also how you determine when one is a priority and gets to the top of the list. well i think it is important that i kind of deliver on the things that like i campaigned on first and foremost. and so i the major things for me are and i talked about one one is economic development. you know our our port is the largest provider of jobs 30,000 direct jobs hundreds of thousands of indirect jobs you think about regionally what trade and what it is doing. so to focus and ensure the port is strong that we are growing that infrastructure is in place. that trade is stable is for us job number one when it comes to economic development. so i got to make sure that are that were that were the jobs are stable. large industries are are are being are being good stewards of those jobs and have good relationship with their employees and all that piece is important. secondly i have a huge education agenda which has really been my priority since i have been in office. there is three things that i want to achieve as mayor and i take this from my experience. you know teaching in the classroom being an administrator at a college knowing how important it is. i am a big believer that the single most important thing you can do to strengthen your economy is to invest in education. there is no better investment of a public dollar that is invested a public dollar in the classroom and into the education system. i am 100% convinced of that all the research i believe points points to that and for me i look at that in three ones. one is i want universal preschool for all want for all long beach eligible preschoolers. cities are doing it across the country. the education research is pretty clear about the impacts that a pre-k education have on the ability of that young student to be able to get in and succeed in college and then graduate and become a productive member of society. so we can get universal pre-k i believe in long beach it would be one of the single most important things we can do to strengthen the future of the city is to ensure that there is an equal place where all youngsters have access. in long beach the families with the least access to preschool are also the families that need at the most. so we have families that have the lowest level of income, the least amount of education, the ones that need to work that cannot because they have a youngster, whether it is a three year old or four year old, that needs some type of child care education system that they cannot afford. so the universal pre-k seattle just passed the universal pre-k program this last election. new york has done it. san francisco has done it. there is 10 or 15 cities that have done it the right way. we are going to do it the right way in long beach on pre-k. the second thing on education that is been important is the issue of link learning and internships. so the city of boston, their public school system has 50,000 public school students and the 50,000 public school students in boston, 15,000 of them have internships. long beach has 80,000 public school students, 1500 of them have internships. 1500, 80,000, 15,000 to 50,000. so we have, and this is no different than los angeles, by the way, very small numbers of link learning and internship opportunities for particularly juniors and seniors in high school. why is that critical? it is critical because we know that if a young person has an internship, the chances of them being hired by that company or that nonprofit is higher than if they were just a cold applying. so a lot of companies will hire interns that work for them. and we also know that the students that have the hardest time getting hired are oftentimes also from low-income communities and they need that foot in the door. so if my goal is to double our amount of internships in the first year, we have almost already done that just by asking a few large corporations in the city of long beach to do it. if the city of long beach is 400 internships a year, i have asked this to double that to 800. that is an easy ask. now we are almost there. we only have 1500, we are getting there. and so internships is another important piece. and just whatever the mayor can do in my role to strengthen college completion, to strengthen access to college, i will do. what i do not believe in is i do not believe in cities trying to control education systems. that experiment has happened many times including here in los angeles and it does not work. and cities try to control universities, school districts. i think that is a huge mistake. i think that cities should collaborate. cities should provide support. but school systems should be driven by teachers, by parents, and by the administrators. so we are going to do whatever we can. so it is been education, economic development, and then some technology stuff. so just on this, it was almost like, did you read our website in advance? so we had a conference last spring called innovating to end urban poverty. and we asked a bunch of experts from around the country to what things would be most important to move the dial on poverty. and when we asked people what one thing would they do? it was universal pre-kindergarten. because the data show that the disparities between those who are in poverty and those who are not are large at first grade. and that gap never closes as you go forward. so when you get to high school or at the end of high school, you are way behind. and so you are not as competitive in your possibility to get wages. that thing would be out of poverty or much lower. so this is actually a really important thing. so i hope you succeed. and we will definitely be keeping an eye on that. so that is quite interesting. the link learning is actually important too. the alternate path ways to employment that college need not be the only way. there are other ways to do it. and that is important to give people options. all right. another question. yes. so my question is how is your gay identity having impact on your election and job? is that an active image making you look evil or something? or positive? like you are diverse and open-minded or neutral like nobody throws it up. nobody cares and just treat you like strict people as well. and second question if allowed. i am wondering. so how the long beach mayor and council set up the policy on agenda? like which issues do you think are more important than others? especially in renewable energy policy? like do you think is there a goal to comply with state policy or you plan to do more? thank you. so on the first question about has being gay, how that affected my election or being mayor? i think that i was more worried about it the first time i ran for office when i ran for city council. i was out already. i came out in college. but i never made an issue. like i was out. everyone knew i was reported in the press. but it is something that was, i mean for me being gay is, you know, i am latino. i am gay. i live in downtown long beach. there is a lot of things about me that make me me. so i have worried about it more in the first election. in the second election of a mayor, i wish i could say that it did not have any sort of impact because i mean there are a few occasions where i would knock on someone's door and like they would not like someone or i met someone and like they would not shake my hand or. i had a few messages or letters where people would say i would never support you because of your lifestyle or whatever things like that. so there were instances but i do not know that it made a difference. i think that that was like the extreme minority. i have no obviously data that proves if it hurt me or helped me, i do not really know. long beach, i would say generally is a more progressive city than most. i think there is a larger lgbt population than in most cities. so i think that that i was very, i had a big support group. in long beach, it would not fly for an elected official to say something negative about the gay community. it just would not be acceptable. so i think i was very supported. if anything, i think it helped me consolidate the strong lgbt vote and base. so i think that helped me a lot. but i do not know. so whether it hurt me more, to be honest, i think that the way the election went. sometimes you have to strategize on who your base is and in my election my larger base, what i was trying to consolidate was progressives, the traditional kind of like latino vote, lgbt and younger folks. that is what kind of i focused on. and so i figured that maybe if there was a stronger social conservative vote out there, they probably were not going to vote for me anyways. regardless of if i was gay or not gay, because they probably did not like the fact that i was maybe more progressive. and so i kind of felt like that group did not really matter because i was not going to get to vote anyways. the second energy policy. yeah, just i will just say a real real briefly that on energy in general, i am a big believer in this at a speech last week that if cities do not get on the ball, like immediately on the issue of climate change and what is it and what it is going to do to our cities, then we are going to be in big trouble in the future. look at all the scientific data. what cities are going to be affected are coastal cities. long beach is one of them. we have to change the way we are doing energy consumption. so next year, i am going to be working with we have an aquarium and long beach aquarium pacific of very great institution. we are going to be bringing together some some scholars, the aquarium pacific and others to put together a really strong climate change action plan for the city, which we do not have, which you really need. so we have got to we have got to look at how our emissions, how what we can expect with the next 20, 30 years, you are going to look like for the city with climate change. and then look about the ways that we consume energy and the way we can do a better job of doing it. so you should definitely reach out to the federal government. there are folks in the epa, even at hud, who have some models to help communities work through these things. i worked with a little of that stuff. but particularly for coastal communities, it is really important that you have sort of an emergency plan so that you are prepared and understand sort of what assets are at risk. any event that things happen. so definitely it is important. other questions? i have won over here and i will get you to. i have been working on a project in the annabberg school called open data la. we are working at the open data efforts throughout the la county. and long beach has it really done that you are talking about them technology, stopping our priority and 21st century city. but we have noticed that long beach is big. it is has not quite kept up with some of the smaller cities, including santa monica and culver city. is there anything in particular you are going to do about that is a chief data officer position, something you see in the foreseeable future. yes and yes. first of all, we are greatly behind when it comes to open data. and it is just not with part of the culture of the city. and i am a huge believer in that. and i think that i am not, you know, it is just the world, it is just the future that we live in. we have got to be open to information and to, for the information to be developed and massaged and, and look that. and so i think you are going to see a big change in long beach when it comes to open data. it is already beginning to happen. i think everyone at the city kind of knew when i was coming in as mayor that those are the kind of things that were important to me. so everyone knew that i was like the technology guy that i like all this kind of stuff, the new cities kind of two, you know, three point of stuff. it is really important to me. so you are going to see a big change in long beach on open data stuff. i am a big, the reason why i restructured our technology department is for that exact reason. so we went from in this last budget. we used to have what was called the technology services department. and it is now called the department of technology and innovation. we are going to be hiring a chief innovation officer in that department as well. i would love to have a data officer. i think what la is doing some amazing things i spent maybe about a month ago. i went to the city lab conference that was here in la, which was all about open data and the future of cities and how cities are changing that the bloomberg foundation puts on. and we are actively competing for large innovation grants right now through the bloomberg foundation and others to do some of this open data work. but we think even if we are not successful in some of the larger grants, we are going to internally get it done. and listen, if you want to help us and there is people here, we are going to... we are helping already. yeah, well, no long beach. if you want to help us. no, we are. andrew schrock, who is a phd at the bloomberg school is one of your residents and he is doing a great job. in long beach? yeah, in long beach. he is got to reach out to us. let me just drop one name who is been working in your city who is been helping us. her name is rachel tanner and she is at the city manager's office and she is just done a great job helping. oh, good. i am glad to hear that. she is great. she is great. john, you know rachel. yeah, she is great. okay, good to know. all right. you have been waiting for a while. oh, yeah. my question is more about when you were giving your introduction, you talked about mentors in your undergraduate graduate school. it is really important to be getting you where you are today. and i just wondered if you still rely on mentors in your current position and how they... if so, how did it help you lead? is that something that you still... absolutely. i have a mentor, a faculty mentor of mine from my undergrad. his name is dr. craig smith. he is still my mentor to this day. and i mean, he was in my office last week. he is a scholar of first amendment studies and is... my opinion is one of the most brilliant men i have ever met. and what i like about him is that he is always been a very kind of honest, really kind of straightforward person on any issue that i might bring to him. and he helped me kind of develop a lot of my messaging over the years politically. he is been... he is been a long history of being involved in politics. he is been great. he is still as a mentor to this day. i would say that my mother is a mentor of mine. she continues to be a mentor of mine. i get her advice all the time. i think she gives me great advice, actually. and so i have a few of those. so i have a few mentors that... there is another faculty member that is been a real strong mentor of mine. and i just try to keep gaining their wisdom as much as possible. so two questions come to mind on this one. how did these mentorships come about? right? so did you take someone's class and then did you bug professors smith relentlessly after you were done so that you just started talking on a regular basis? did he reach out to you and send you in on how did that happen? and then i was wondering about the notion of a kitchen cabinet. do you have a small number of people who you just call informally to get that input because a lot of times you are in the big chair now. there can be a bubble around that in a lot of ways. so how do you stay grounded? but i want to start with the mentor thing because that is actually something that i think is important for the folks here. so for me it was out of necessity. so when i was in college i did not have a support system. so my family was always working. my mom always worked two jobs. and so my mom could give me good advice but i did not have a support system. so when i was in college i looked to the faculty members as my support system. and so in dr. smith's case he was a faculty i had him in class. i loved what he had to say. and i just would be a kind of past and stay after class or go to his office hours and try to get more information. and then over time i just i became a mentee of his. i did not have him in class but he just continued to mentor me. and that was i always had this kind of attraction to faculty that were in the classroom that were kind of imparting their wisdom or their information. and so i was always attracted to faculty members and i would connect with them and try to gain information from them and they always knew more than i did. so i like that. and that is kind of how i kind of sought it out. and then the second part of your question was do i have a kitchen cabinet? i do not have a formal kitchen cabinet. sometimes i think i need one to be honest. and i kind of thought about like should i form one. i more have like people that i go to for advice. they are not part of a group but i have people that give me that give me good advice. i get good advice from one of my opponents who lost, did not win but not the one that i was in the final. i would never get advice from him. but one of the other ones that is a long time. i always say that if i was not running he is the one i would have voted for. but you know he did not make it to the primary but he is someone he headed up my transition team for example. and i get a lot of great advice city advice from him. there is a few people in the city that i go to for advice that i think have been around for a really long time. and i do not know all the answers and i do not know how to solve every problem with the city. and so i think you have to go out and get mentors and advice. but that sounds like a kitchen cabinet. so so most kitchen cabinets i think never actually meet. yeah, i have a kitchen. they are just there around and they are in your sphere and you can reach out to them when you have questions. and it sounds like you have established that. i have but i do feel like i need more because what happens is and i think you are totally right. this is very different experience when i was on the city council. you immediately when you become mayor and there is just one of you. you this you this bubble immediately forms around you were no offense to my wonderful staff but they are they are always like trying to protect me right. and so they are i oftentimes feel like some of their job is to limit access to me because they want me to be able to focus on x y and z. and i really appreciate that but it makes you more isolated. and so it ends up happening as that you become you know now people do not email me directly and myself. my cell phone number is being changed and i have different emails and so my access to regular you know to people to me that that is a to just our community i feel like is more limited. and i have not figured out yet how i am going to deal with that yet because i am not i am feeling like i am i am in this i am getting more of this bubble which in some cases is necessary for me to get work done. but my personality is not like my my staff hates that i like to respond to messages on my own on like on facebook or that i like to take calls like they would rather me like not take my own media calls and i am just used to that you know so i got a i have not figured out yet completely. so the bubble is important so yeah because you know i have been in a smaller chair than yours and even in that context the appetite for your time is insatiable and there you can there are a multitude of people who want your voice and your opinion your presence and so you guys are doing a vital thing by by stopping that but but it but it it is a double and sort because you you can. really lose touch if you are not careful but i do not think you are going to have that problem my guess is but the interesting question other questions i have been in i have been with my with my partner for six years he is actually a phd student here at usc so he is finishing a dissertation political science and we did not meet on campus but not that matters but he so he what is great. so the great is that he is a like true like academic and in political science so what what i love is that he thinks what i am doing is not real politics so what he is doing what he is doing is is real politics you know is real political science which is you know research and all sorts of stuff. so what is what is been nice is he is this kind of if you were to meet him you would think while this guy is really quiet and kind of shy and which he which he gently publicly kind of is but he is also like the smartest person i know and so you know he he is here is on full fellowship he is he last year received the top at phd prize for research for phd student here at the university so he is brilliant political science mind he is probably my best political advisor and a lot of people do not really realize that and so he is been very supportive of me even though he hates talking to people you know so he he like has a very he has his friends and family and is very sweet and and great guy but i am very thankful that we met before i was in office so we met before you were a council before was a councilman so we know we met when we were just you know just having fun and i was out at a club and he was there and we met and talked and you know it was with grad i was in grad school and he was looking at grad schools and then we just start and then you know a year later i was running for the city council and it just kind of happened i do not know that i could meet somebody now it would be very hard for me because i do not i would not first know how to date anymore and then i just feel like i it is just very hard to you know i feel like our love is like a very genuine because it is like a very hard thing to do. it is started we kind of got to this place together which is really nice so the only thing that affect them in relation to difficultly was no one got more mad at the like attacks and he did so i hated seeing him get so upset about every every day it was like the commercials and the male and he hated getting the male and so he in the that really really bothered him rightly so you know i get it and then the first your first question was remind me was about i mean i do not know that i am better suited for i just think that because of my age i am a consumer also of like pop culture huge consumer of pop culture i watch reality tv i listen to hip hop i like to dance i know a lot about just you know popular culture and what is going on and so i think i can talk that out of the way i am going to do it. i am not a language if i need to and i can turn it i try to turn it off a lot as mayor but i am as interested in like popular culture oftentimes i am in political stuff and i can consume a lot of that information and i think it is interesting and i watch real housewives of atlanta i just saw it and i can have a conversation about that show just as much as i could have about like what is going on in congress and that is just me so it helps me connect. i am better grounded and i am so just on that have you did you when you became a council member did you start thinking more carefully about where you went and sort of what you were doing when you were out and we have had a number of people here who say you know greg smith is a who is a former councilman for the city said he would put on a tie and jacket to go to home depot because he knew he was going to run into people and so so the office changed. how he engaged the public are you living that at all or you just do what you do absolutely and the hardest thing for people i think particularly if you are if you are a gay in an office which a lot of people do not realize is for a lot of like gay men your social circle revolves around bars and where you go is there you are you end up going to a lot of like bars or lgbt restaurants or night clubs that is just part of a big part of. kind of like the social circle you grow up and so for for me when you come out particularly when you are first coming out and then you are you you navigate and you tend to go to a lot of gay bars even something you want would drink all the time but that is just kind of where all your friends saying out there is not like you know unless you are saying you know on occasions and we get coffee house or whatever else and so one thing i we got on the council and definitely now is all my friends like of you know my friend from college that are 35 36. they still all hang out at the bars that is where they hang out so if we are going to go do something or there is a birthday we are going to go to the drag bar or the whatever bar or and so. i have had to i have gone out to like bars with friends and i have had people walk up to me and tell me what are you doing here or people say why you at the bar like are you embarrassed to be here and it i had to really adjust my so i do less socially now. then i probably ever have done even with friends because. even though i do not really think there is a problem with it i think other people can perceive as a problem with me going to. bars you know and having like a beer or a drink or something so i try to limit it as much as possible so it does affect you know i do not mind by the way. when i am out i am i am very casual so i will actually go out in a hat and shorts and i know i should not but. in my neighborhood i will oftentimes on the weekends i am just in a baseball cap if i am not having an event i will just be in a baseball cap and you know a polo and and you know and shorts and people will stop me and they will always say oh you are so casual what it will say you know oh you are you know you are wearing a hat and i am like yeah. so it is just as what it is. other questions. yes. you mentioned that you did not have any intention of running for mayor and then mayor foster decided not to run for a third term and you arrived at that decision within like 24 hours. can you walk us through the. sure and i should clarify it is not that when i when i was on the council i thought you know towards that end of that kind of first term i thought well i could run for mayor but i did not had no intention of running for mayor. that time i thought maybe i mean i did not know i thought maybe i will run for mayor like after mayor foster is done with this third term or maybe not maybe able to something else i was not really sure so it was that i had thought about it just not at that moment so what happened at that moment basically was i was i was a week before i a week or two weeks before i got the call from mayor foster. he had asked me to chair his mayoral campaign to be head of his campaign as like the committee chair he had told me six months before that that he was going to run and likely to run and he was going to start you know but he was going to wait. he needed time he wanted to he needed more time and throughout the whole that whole six months i just assume i was going to run for real election. he on a few occasions like wavered on all we like well i am pretty sure i am going to run but then we always call me back and reinforce he was going to run and i just really believe it was going to he had done everything i thought he was very popular. he did a great job as mayor and i just was not really prepared i was not really at a like emotional or. financial because it cost you a lot of money by the way you know you end up not working enough and i just was not ready but i knew that i knew when he called me he actually called me on a believe it like a sunday night and i was on my way home from palm springs i had gone the palm springs with friends over the weekend i was coming home i had gotten home sunday night and he called me and i was just shocked and he said i decided not to run for mayor and i remember the first thing i said to him i said what i said and i was i was actually kind of upset because i felt that he should have told me that like he was so certain of it he never once gave me any sort of room to start planning if maybe i would because i was a time i had been elected by smayer so i was on the council my colleagues had elected by smayer and so i thought okay so when he said i am not doing it i knew with and the reason why i knew that i would do it is because i knew who all of you were running and it is nothing against them because they are really good people. but i just knew that like they were not the right it was not the the the person that should be mayor was not in that group and um and so i just was very easy for me to decide i am just going to do it and so i jumped in real quickly and he he literally said i am not running in the next day i announced. and i ended up getting his support not not till towards the end of the campaign but he did end up supporting me and i think part of it was because i respected his time i did not like jump ahead or or ever disrespect his his process um and then it was like a roller coaster i mean for basically was just like a rocket ship i am from getting i am running to having a raise you know 800,000 dollars uh and campaign and it was the it was horrible but great at the same time. so we will have to end on that um because we are just about at a time but this has been fantastic i like to listen to you for another three hours and and the questions have been really really really interesting you have such a remarkable perspective on what has been a really remarkable experience in moving from a low income immigrant family to go into a college being the first one figuring out that you need implementers and then accidentally winning a council's seat in the mayorship and and yet having real perspective so you know just listen, you know i had a couple of takeaways that that that struck me the first was you started with your education and consuming information and knowledge and having that be the base for for how you engage with people and that that is interesting i i do not actually hear people say that as much as they should and i but i i think it is really important. and then a second thing is this communications issue, which we are seeing play out at every level of government and how we reach people. and i actually think for what we do in the hydrogen center circles, how do we engage people to participate, to be willing to have a voice, to learn to use their time, to be active and help us do things is really important. and so we are going to try to learn some lessons from you. the third one is, there was actually probably the same as the fourth one, but i will say it to everybody, is you repeatedly had a good sense of what you needed and tried to do things to fill those voids. the mentorship you knew you did not have the framework, the support system, so you went and created one. just in even terms of talking with about the kitchen cabinet, you feel like you need more, you are going to figure out what to do about it. that is actually interesting. that is a sense of self and what you are and are not that is really unusual, i think. and that is the fourth point, which is i just am amazed at how comfortable you are with who you are and really grounded in terms of what the world is and how we need to live in it. it is a level of maturity that is remarkable for old person and really super amazing for a young person. thank you. thank you again, this has been great. before we clap for the mayor, i want to just encourage you to take the materials that we have left here with you. stay in touch with us and we will have a number of these. i hope you found it interesting and i hope you come back. mayor garcia, thank you so much. thank you. thank you.