officially i want to thank two people that have been mentors of mine who i had a chance to connect with both of them today. that is of course our us senator, kamala harris and lieutenant governor gavin newsom. thank you. and of course the members of the city council. i wanted to say a few just few brief things. the first is, as we know, a special day in any city which is election day. and i want to say that the last four years have been challenging but just incredibly rewarding and amazing. i feel and i, i, i, matt knows this every day that i wake up every morning and i love going to work. and i love long beach so much that it is, this is the greatest honor i will ever have in my life is to represent all of you and to work hard for all of you. there is, there is no better city in america than long beach. yes. yes. and i am just incredibly grateful for the support. not just from the institutional support that i have had from folks within the democratic party or within the business or labor community. but most importantly from neighbors that just every day at the door have been so supportive of what we are trying to do. i also want to say that i am proud of the last four years. i am really proud of the last four years. unemployment is at the lowest it is ever been in the history of the city. our homicide rate is the lowest it is ever been in the history of the city. over 5,000 private and public sector jobs have been created in the last four years. we have, as you probably are all aware, some of the best investment happening when it comes to streets and sidewalks that we have ever had. we are spending more to rebuild our streets and sidewalks and our community. then we have in the last 50 years in the city of long beach and we could be more proud of that work. we are also proud of the other work that is happening, whether it is protecting our environment and building a more sustainable port and a more sustainable community. whether it is expanding our services and our libraries or actually hiring more police and firefighters instead of what would have been happening in the past which was actually cutting our cops and firefighters. we have hired more police and firefighters. we have dropped the paradigm response time across the city. and as we all know our education system has stronger than ever. we have increased incredible folks at our community college system at long beach unified and at the school board president megan kerr. i have the friends here somewhere and so much other work that is happening. and this could not be possible by the way. if it was not and i have to think them. i have learned to love the 6,000 plus city employees that work hard every single day for all of you and for me. yes. the women and men that put on uniform, whether it is a fire uniform or police uniform, the librarians and our libraries, the park workers that are taking care of our kids, the women that are working hard to clean our offices every single night while we enjoy our families, the hard working public's works officers that are cleaning gutters and fixing our streets. these men and women that i am honored and proud to lead and represent some of which are here tonight. i just want to thank you every day for waking up and making long beach a better place. give them a round of applause. thank you. oh wow. and most importantly of course i just want to thank all of you. people ask you how is long beach doing and i always say i think things are going pretty well. i think things are going really well and the reason why things are going well is because i believe in the power of optimism and hope. and with people are feeling good about their city. people view and believe that things are happening in the city. this city has more construction happening right now than it is had in decades. there is over six billion dollars of investment happening and building more housing and building more infrastructure and building our community. but we know we also have great and big challenges. and so as we celebrate tonight, i also want to just remind us that we have real challenges ahead in this next turn. and there is no larger challenge we all know than addressing the issues around homelessness and ensuring that as a community we come together to assist those people in our community that need the most help. the truth is that we as a city and a state have failed our homeless community. we have failed the men, women and families that are sleeping on the street every single night. and every single person here at this party and across the city, we all share some responsibility in that. and so i hope that we redouble our efforts to ensure that every single person that currently is on our street has access to a home. and you can be assured that at the very top of my agenda, especially next week when we roll out a very exciting initiative on this topic, that eliminating homelessness will be at the top of the agenda over the course of these next four years. and tied into the issue of homelessness, of course, is the issue of housing. we got to ensure that people have access to housing in our community. whether it is a senior who is having a hard time paying the rent, or whether it is a student looking for their very first apartment, or whether it is a recent graduate from our university college that cannot afford to buy that first home. there is a lot of conversation on this issue up and down the state, but i know that coming to the table as a community, we can work hard to address this issue in the next four years as well. and so you are going to hear a lot about how we can build and ensure that we create a long beach and housing for everyone in our community. and finally, let me just say that as we talk about what is important in long beach, and we have talked about it, we have moved the city into the 21st century. sometimes kicking and screaming, but we have moved the city into the 21st century. we have improved and managed technology. we have launched new initiatives of all types, whether it is sustainable initiatives around technology. but i really hope that as a body and as a government, that we also, over the next few years, get back to basics and the basics of government. and so the questions that i am going to be asking myself every single day are our neighborhood safe. do people feel like their community is clean and blight free? how do people feel about their government services? are we making our city a healthy place to raise a family? are our budget reserves strong enough for the future or for a future rainy day? those basic questions around how we govern are what is going to guide me every single day. and so i am excited about these next four years. i am excited to have your support every single one of you. i want, please do not head out until i personally thank you and give you a hug or a kiss and thank you for your incredible support of me. and i love you all. and so tonight, i want to, as we close, i do want to say things it is important. i want to thank my opponent. it is difficult and hard to do this. and i want to thank mr. khan for stepping up. it is hard to step up. and i look forward to working with him and sitting down with him in the future and hearing his worldview and his point of view. and i look forward to his supporters as well being a part of all the solutions that we have here in the city of long beach. and so thank you. so thank you all very much for being here tonight. there is a million people i want to thank personally. but go long beach to all my staff out there. i love you for running the ship every single day. and we are just, the part is just getting started. so let us have fun. go long beach. yes. thank you.