i am over here, young, and she is bringing it back in court. oh my god. yeah. good on the show. and it is good on the show. you are trying to play. you know what? something to play. we will start running. and keep on running. you heard it on the web. take that time to get your run. okay. yeah. she is running. she is looking for money. money. that court throw something out of you. try to know who you think she is. try to know who you think she is. i think she is going to play. i think she is going to play. i heard it. you check. go right. this is the main. no, no, no. the blowing. the blowing is the main. i should be right there too, right? run it. back, back to my belly. stay back here or no? no. i am scared. i am scared. i am scared. i am scared. i am scared. i am scared. i am scared. i cannot let you think of me. is that just from today? yeah. chop. your dad's going to make your reign as you walk into the rain. he is going to make your reign as you walk into the rain. he is going to make your reign as you walk into the rain. that is a r i b is that. i am sorry, i am sorry. i am sorry. i am sorry. i am sorry. i am sorry. i am sorry. is it about to make your ring when he walks into the ring? if you said he said they put it in the same ring, i think it is almost the same. you remember saying good. it was a. it was 30. it is a ring away. did you fight him when you were a fighter? no, he is a... he is a... how is he now? 48, 49? 46. he is 29, 30. 30 enough? i got a ring. 46. we are going to see a couple of times. i got a ring. i got a ring. i got a ring. not you, i know his champions. that is awesome. my favorite. he wants to play with romani. i want to play with romani. he wants to play with romani. that is a great shirt. is he from the gym from romani? he is from the gym. you know, it is crazy. not true. not true. that is cool. oh, there we go. introduce yourself really quick. chop, chop, done. chop, chop, fan. where do they follow you guys really quick? instagram. instagram. okay. let us go. we got the whole band here. we got a walkchop chop out today. he is one of the most popular cross-packs. in boxing, maybe the number one cross-packs in boxing. you guys are doing a big honor walking them out. what do you get to sing today? correel. which one? which means what in english? my wife's life? my wife's life? all right, let us go. my wife's life. my wife's life. my wife's life. my wife's life. let us go. let us go. you know the words by heart? huh? you know what by heart? let us go. you know what by heart? let us go. you know what? my wife's life. my wife's life. my wife's life. my wife's life. my wife's life. you did not tell me your uncle's a celebrity? huh? you did not tell me your uncle's a celebrity? yeah. everybody knows him. is that your dad's brother? is that your dad's brother? my dad's brother? is that your father's brother? why are you drinking up again? he is a badней spirit. john has thrown it early already since then. how do you keep your british people? i do not know, i am musical issue i am a very spoken było who do not himself say no to everything and who else does it? who else does it? who else does it? ... oh george unbelievable! come on, come on. just stay low, stay low. turn up, turn up. turn up, turn up. we are going to have to go for the next round. we are not in here. all the hard work that we did, all the finishers, we are in the house. we are in the other way here. we are going to play 2-1. we want some more. we have three minutes left. there is kneeling barry, he is the mayor of the hands. first punch round and got to do it. a jump up straight-and-hand break break. we have to do this. he is running real well. turn the corner. bolts out. turning back. i am going to throw it all out a straight mile. he is still going very tough, kid. i am dead. i am going to be a little bit used to being a kid. ten days, i want to come on one play. i want to stop. i leave everybody here. i am going to finish this night. there is my future. i am going to come on the fight. i am going to come on the fight. i am going to take over her death. i think you get caught in the bottom of my heart. i think it is free. then i give you a time, and we are going to have to play for the rest of the year. this is the only day of time. thank you. thank you. thank you. well done! you guys are doing a good job. did you give it to me or did you give it to me? yeah, i did. yeah, i did. i did. come on. come on. no! pec safety this is the final we are going torudle beschad colleagues yeah. u sound robert, what grade energy? do you like the energy? yeah, that was beautiful. packed house. i think i am not too sure. you always told me it was a star. robert, you always said he was... yeah, i know, yeah, i know. i think you are the one who is here. i will come to home right now. so, you are 100 miles from the college to you, you are the biggest boss? what do you think? let us go straight to ebay. let us go. george, what do you think? can i get a little song? okay. no, no. what do you think? robert, you like it? he looked good. he brought down the house. virgil, what do you think? that was amazing. the crowd, the energy, the fight was great. the monster will not run. you know... man, what exactly is that? yes. i am a little bit of a lot of the artists in the audience. i am a little bit of a little bit of a lot of the artists in the audience. i am a little bit of a little bit of a lot of the artists in the audience. alright guys. two or one. three or two. three or two. you know what, you should have finished it without a kid. you know what, i cannot do not. three or two. alright, charles. alright, thanks. you are welcome. hey, thanks. alright, thanks. alright, let us go. so robert, what did you think? i was good for fun. it was a great performance. it was a war. it was a war. it was a war. it was a war. thousands of people were here to see him fight. i came to fight. he was not just going to go on like that. respect to him. he is a warrior. respect to him. i swear, yeah. and what do you think about what chopper is doing? landed so much as henry. chopper is for what he is doing. special man. you always said that. so what is next, you know? he is healthy. you know, he is like, weed. he smells like weed. who is smoking? huh? he is up to... chopper, he was next. i am done giving him a hug. it smells like weed over here. it smells like weed over here. it smells like weed over here. it is long, bitch. so what did you call the fans, robert? that was a great win. oh, nothing. look at how much we have got. i have a lot of support, man. this is going to be crazy when he walks out. yeah. what a win, i. you got that. you like that? 10 out of 10. great performance. great winning. hey, what are you thinking about fighting? you are a farmer tonight. you already know. i was talking about the sun. like, no, no, no, no. i am a farmer tonight. so i am going to head back in. i will be back with chop chop. so chop chop has a lot of fans ready for. he is going to be a... yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. i do not know if i am getting on my side or not. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. if you are doing that, can we come out a little bit more? i heard you yelling stay low stay low i am excited when i see you up there now with your dad and you are like, you know, being from like a daddy or he came from a stuff like for you as a son to be like a ball and you are like, hey, i can do anything with that his opponent was half-mayorga, half-tune on my danna no, they kept throwing tough kid, i will be there, thank you so much for everything i will see you soon oh yes, rip-boarding you are a job, george you are here to crowd cheering it is a fight, you know, like, look at me, i feel like i cannot afford it, but i like not to fight you gave them a show yeah, i feel like i tried my best to give them a show, you know top rank were ecstatic, they loved it, so you brought out hundreds or maybe a few thousand fans and like you know, you walked out i try my best to always stay focused, you know, turn-o-vision but it was hard because i came out and i see everybody you know, it is a blessing and i just like, oh man, i keep on here hey, who got down with the music? who got down with the ring and let us go introduce us, what is it say? this is my theo lalo right here lalo, you got down he got down, he sang out for me you know, this guy what was it? man, my theo lalo's been there since the get-go since when we first, i remember when we first had my girl with my daughter we needed a sponsor, they had my uncle, there was a house that was like a little she-shed that was not fully built he came after work every day for, i do not know how many months to help to fix it wow, every day for the hell on theo couple months he would go to work, come out of work and go shake the malls here i am out here going home to two in the morning, three in the morning wow, you know, man, my theo lalo's been there man, this guy, hey, so lalo, how do you feel to sing him in to one of his biggest nights? like, he is an upward prospect in batsu yeah, huh and everybody is turning up see, i feel like i am ready to sit up for one of my sponsors let me talk to him right now, so what is up? i will see you later i am like a major connect, but that is for both the only fighter here tonight that other fighters and other coaches came up to for pictures all night it is a blessing, it is a blessing, so i let people like yourself, you know, robert everybody that you know just helped me all the sponsors, so i let people, that helped me to be the person i am today, you know above everything, you know, god, man, god has put me in a blessed position and i give him all the glory because i am not the end of the day for work for him, i would not be here that was a great fight you have to take off the cup first, i know you love wearing a cup always i know i am a good guy i said that, yeah i am helping with the cup, he has to open up the tape no, i think i got it but, i am not going to get it you have to go change go behind, go behind the... chop, go behind the curtain six, there is no way to do it there is no way to do it i am going to have to do it hey, but chop, how are you? you just asked me, i got a bunch of virgin and vagal fights, they do not want better be than a battle fight you can affect your own salary that is crazy that is crazy i will be the same shit about it what if, what if, what if orlando, what is the name soccer player? what if he tells you to come sit near me, you still going? hey, just to be a better player you are not my father, messi is better i would, who is better, messi or ronaldo? messi, messi or ronaldo? messi, i am with you on that robert, messi or ronaldo? wait, and a baby? overall, he is better i got a cello, that is my boy i will find you, ronaldo all the time you have been a saudi, you have not met any yet? all the time you have been a saudi i will meet that one jewish guy, i will meet him you did not meet him? you gonna bring a jersey this time, does he carry it? last time, i went to the game, i had my jersey what happened? i did not meet him, i was on field listen, everybody else has the same jersey on i took a round madrid on a purpose i took a white round madrid on everybody's wearing the yellow ones, but i had my round madrid on i was right next to where they walked out, but he did not stop did they lose? did they lose? no, they tied he was in a bad mood that is why he did not like, as soon as the game ended, he was fucking... what happens if you play and make a city, the world's gone? young people do not right, thomas, does all? no, but if you say you are gonna play in the next city, i am playing in madrid nobody knows yet did they say they were? no, that is a friendly game with the brilliant margin you jumped a fence right up to him, i tried to think of selfie like that fence you are gonna go viral yeah, so i am gonna go again to this next time i already looked at the schedule, but again, the world's gone i am very surprised that he has not come to meet them or come to the locker room he sits inside, i am walking by he is gonna go this way nice, they are gonna go up there, my why did he get a new laptop? because he is the one that makes all the videos going on he said that, it is more work that is what we do, he said that is more work that is just the current back of the game can i say something fucked up or not? should have bought him a tent board i am ellie sackback, ellie sackback reporting but yes, newsreporting.com i am ellie sackback reporting thank you reporting.com i am ellie sackback reporting