i just want to thank all of you, friends, supporters, most importantly my family for being here for what really is an exciting day and it is a special day for me and for our neighbors and for the community. i guess i should make it official, but as all of you know, i am here because i am running for the long beach city council and i am looking forward to making long beach a better place for all of us. and there is some people here that i want to point out before we get started. i see some people from my long beach city college family. thank you for being here. i also obviously i want to thank ernie and caesar who have opened up their home today. this is a 1902 colonial revival. it is just as beautiful on the inside as it is on the outside. and i see ernie and caesar here. let us give them a round of applause for thanking you for opening up your home today. and if you do not know, ernie has been a longtime leader and fighter and supporter of the wilmore city area and he is been a longtime community activist and having his support and caesar support means a lot. so thank you both for opening your home up today. i do also want to say thanks to two other people that are here right now and those are two of our elected officials and i see vice mayor val lerks that is here and i want to thank val, thank you for being here and i also want to thank him for his support because he is endorsed me as well so i want to thank you vice mayor lerks for your support and i also want to thank a council member who i will be working with very closely on downtown issues and that is council member suja lohantau who is here as well. council member lohantau, thanks for being here and the council members from the first and second have to work together oftentimes on many of the issues that face the area and the region. suja, i look forward to working with you on that. i am making downtown and the neighborhood surrounding it as well as the whole city a better place so thanks again for your support as well. but most importantly i need to thank my family because quite frankly i am and why i am because of the strong work and the dedication and the love of the people that are here close to me right now. you know we did not grow up with a lot. my mom often times worked two jobs. i did not even see her very much often times but what we had at home was a lot of love and what we had at home was commitment to each other. and my aunt and uncle are here who are off my second set of parents so thank you for being here. i love you both very much. my two cousins jonathan and joey who are who i grew up with like my brothers. we all grew up in the same household by the way all together. and so they are like my brothers thank you for being here. my brother jacob is here. my stepdad greg i think is hiding over there. he is a little shy. and of course my mom who is the light of my life my best friend, my lifetime partner and everything that we do together so this is just as much about you as it is about me so i love you mom. thank you for being here. i think as josh and mentioned you know i feel very fortunate. now i was born in lima peru little did i know that i would end up in long beach. what brought me here was the opportunity to go to college at cal state long beach. and i actually remember when it was time to apply to school you are none of us had been through that process that application process. we know one of my family has a college education but what we did not know is that we used to come down to mother's beach when i was a child in long beach and we would get a memory we would come down to the beach we would splash around we would play around so i had very fond memories of long beach when i was young so when it was time to apply to college long beach was the place. what is important today is what we do for not just the downtown neighborhoods for the rest of the city. and so i often get asked you know why are you running? why do you want to do this? the easy answer for me is i am running for the city council because i love long beach. i love the city. i believe in its potential. i love the fact that it is diverse. look around just the people that are here. we all look different. we are different colors. we have different beliefs. i love the fact that it is historic that we are in this beautiful home that is been built in the early 1900s and it is been restored and taken so well care of. i love the fact that we are an urban community but at the same time a community of neighborhoods and i love the fact that we are a downtown by the coast. now let me say something about that i think which i think is important. we are the only downtown on the water between san diego and san francisco. we are also the only downtown by the water that really has a shoreline and actual beach in front of it yet we do not take care of it. we do not sometimes realize the potential that we have. we can be the greatest city in the state of california. i want to set off by saying that this election is not about the past. this election is about the future and it is about what are we going to do tomorrow and what are we going to work on together to make the future better. we are in a fiscal crisis. there are major issues facing the city and it is going to take hard work and tough decisions because the decisions that need to be made are not going to be easy. they are going to be tough. the first and the most important is always a commitment to safe and clean streets and you can be sure that my number one priority will always be the safety and security of the people that live in the city. and that means that we are always going to be supportive of our police and firefighters making sure that they are well trained and showing that we are tough on games, that we are tough on crime. ensuring that graffiti removal is a top priority always for the city. that we are doing prevention programs that we are working with our youth. that we are ensuring that our youth have somewhere to go after school, working with our school district. that will always be what is most important. secondly, is that we live in a healthy and clean environment. and that means creating new parts. there is all these great spaces in this neighborhood that are being created as you can probably see new green spaces. and we need to create more of those, but especially in neighborhoods that are, you know, are disadvantaged, that have more poor, that have people that are less fortunate. we need to create those opportunities. and we need to activate our current parts. here are current parks. and another thing that i mentioned before is we need to reclaim our beach fund. we need to activate the beach. and a lot of good work is already being done there. but we need to do a better job of reclaiming our beach. and i am also very supportive of the breakwater study that is looking at reconfiguring parts of the breakwater. and finally, i think something that is important to the city is we need to have efficient and responsible city government. and what does that mean exactly? the first is a clear commitment to balancing the city budget and fiscal responsibility. and i think it is important right now that we all need to know that we are in a bad shape. and this is not just bad shape in the city. we are in bad shape in the country. the state is in horrible shape as well as our own city. so we need to ensure that we look at every single area of government for waste, for mismanagement. and that we are ensuring that we are providing the best for the taxpayers of the city. and so you have my commitment that i will work very aggressively and very tough to make sure that we are providing the best, efficient, run government as possible. and there is a couple of things that i want to bring out that i think would make that even more efficient. one thing that i will be a strong supporter of is a citywide 311 system. if you are not familiar with 311, the cities of san francisco, of new york have the system. and it is a system where instead of having to call various numbers or phone numbers for information, you can call one phone number. you call 311 and you can get information about trash services, information about graffiti, information about community organizing, all from one number, which i think makes government more efficient and is easier for the residents. you also have my commitment to ensuring that our city website is a 24 hour city hall. and that you could be able to go on the website and do as much as possible at any time possible to improve city services. i think it is important that we make all of our public spaces wireless. and i think that is something that clearly needs to be done. our public parks should be wireless. we should be encouraging technology and encouraging really the future. so in closing, i just want to say that one thing that you will always get for me is i am here to represent everybody. i know what it is like to grow up poor. i know what it is like for english not to be your first language. spanish was my first language. i know what it is like to not have a lot of money to have to make sacrifices. and so because of that experience, i feel that i can relate to every kind of person, whether they are the poorest and the most unfortunate situation to those that have been able to succeed and get on their own. and it is my hope that i am going to be able to reach out to everyone, regardless of where they come from in the city. and let me leave everybody with this. i really strongly believe that this campaign and just this whole process is going to be a team effort. this really is not about me. this is about all of us and about what we can all do. and i am going to need all of your help because this is not going to be easy. there is a lot of tough decisions that are going to happen. but i think that we can do this together. we are going to make the city more green, more progressive, safer, a better place to live. and at the end of the day, we are all going to be better off for it. so thank you all for being here. i love you all. i really do and go long beach. and let us win this thing on april 7th. thank you very much for coming. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you.