and i just want to start off by saying that i take voting very seriously. i appreciate all the discussion around voting. i am an immigrant. and so for me, the day i raised my right hand and took a note to our country and constitution and earned the right to vote. i was in my 20s. it was to this day the most transformational moment of my life. and it is something that is incredibly important to me personally. and so i just want to thank everyone's work on voting rights. now, i consider myself a patriotic immigrant. i am also a former mayor and someone who cares deeply about democracy. and like many of our conversations in this committee, i find today's conversation deeply disturbing and offensive in so many ways. now, this committee is now for the third time chosen to waste our time on working and trying to figure out local laws and what d.c. should or should not be doing. i loved my time in local government and as mayor of my community and when i served on the council. but i oftentimes feel like i am back on my city council whenever we bring up district of columbia here in d.c. and i encourage my house colleagues if they want to get so involved in local government. they should run for office here in washington d.c. there are plenty of city council seats that are open. there are plenty of positions to be appointed to. and they should stop making d.c. their partisan playground for attacking elections, attacking mostly non-white voters and attacking our democracy. now, d.c. residents are americans who deserve the same rights and privileges and anyone else. folks here are working hard to ensure that people have access to the ballot box. and we do not need house republicans pushing voter suppression and a pro voter suppression campaign on d.c. i remind us that d.c. is the highest voter registration rate i believe in the nation. now, let us start with some facts. there is no crisis of american confidence in elections except for when donald trump created one across the country. and many people rightly feared for the integrity of our elections when trump welcomed the russian support and interference in 2016. this whole rant about elections and the destruction of our democracy starts with former president donald trump. now, let us be real clear, joe biden won the last election as much to the dismay of donald trump and many house republicans by earning 7 million more votes and 74 more electoral college votes than donald trump. now, with donald trump's ego disregard for the constitution and the rule of law and his pathological fear of being a loser that led him to lie to the american people. many people knew then and know now that he continues to lie and replete this great lie to cover for him and his loss. now, there is no evidence of voter fraud in d.c. or anywhere else. the district of columbia nailed each registered d.c. voter a mail ballot for the 2020 election and over 200,000 residents voted by mail with no evidence of voting fraud. now, this legislation that republicans are discussing and want to promote will actually make it harder to vote in d.c. and will have less of a voice for the american people. so i just want to repeat that despite the fact that it keeps being mentioned, there is no voter of some widespread voter fraud happening in d.c. ms. wiesler, can you remind us how common in-person voter fraud actually is? an american is more likely to be struck by lightning than to commit in-person voter fraud according to multiple studies over decades. absolutely. thank you. and if voter id laws do not actually work or solve any problems, their impact is really about making it harder for americans to vote. and so we should be clear, voter id requirements just proportionally affect non-white voters. that is clear. i think that is been studied. ms. wiesler, can you remind the committee what happened after the passage of the texas 2021 voter suppression on the miss bill, which required the presentation of driver's licenses, absentee ballot applications, and what happened then? the brennan center actually studied the impact of just one of the provisions in this massive voter restriction bill, which is the requirement that voter id numbers be provided with absentee ballots and absentee ballot applications. we found that tens of thousands of ballots were rejected 10% of those ballots that mail ballots. and that it was disproportionately african-american voters and latino and asian voters, 19% of latino and asian ballots were rejected and 16% of african voters. we should be holding hearings about that travesty. we should be holding hearings about disenfranchising non-white voters across this country that is happening in state legislature after state legislature. so i just want to thank you for your work. i want to thank, and once again, restate my position that washington, d.c. should be a state and the people here deserve the same rights as anybody else in this country. and i want to thank you for your time. and with that, mr. chairman, i yield back.