WATCH: Senator Blunt Rochester to Her Republican Colleagues on the Floor: “We have a choice in this moment…Let’s make a deal.”
November 7, 2025
Click
here
to watch the Senator’s full remarks.
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.)
today joined her Democratic colleagues on the Senate floor to implore Republicans to accept a deal to extend the ACA tax credits and reopen the government.
Blunt Rochester’s full remarks can be found
here
and below, as delivered.
“Madam president, I actually have written notes here. I came prepared to talk about the importance of the ACA tax credits, and as I sat here, I prayed. What do I even say in this moment?
“There’s a scripture that says, ‘Choose ye this day.’ Today we have an opportunity to make a choice. We have an opportunity to do something that is so plain and so simple.
“There’s a book in the bible called the Book of Habakkuk. A lot of people don’t even know it, it’s like three chapters…We always hear ‘how long – not long’. No, in [this book] it, it says long. It says pain. It says corruption. It says suffering. But what it does say is ‘make a plan and make it plain.’
“So, what we come today to say is we have something that is plain and simple and will lift up America. And that is the opportunity to both open the government and restore people’s health care. It’s that plain, it’s that simple. We’re not saying you’re better than us and we’re better than you. We’re saying link them together on behalf of the American people.
“It’s a sad day in America when people have to choose between their health care and housing, or their health care and food. We’re not in a pandemic. There are no wars on our shores. This should not be a hard time for us. We are not without resources in this country. And so today, as many people are being priced out of the American dream, I ask my colleagues [to] come to the table, work with us.
“I’m so proud to be one of the freshman class, one of the most diverse classes in the history of this chamber. With [Senators] Elissa Slotkin, Ruben Gallego, Adam Schiff, Andy Kim, and my sister senator, Angela Alsobrooks. Five of the six of us came from the House of Representatives, and so for us it’s almost like we have a foot in both worlds. And for us, this proposal is an opportunity to not only pass something here, but to pass something in the House, that becomes a law and gets something [done] for the American people. We also have relationships and have been in conversations with our former House Republican colleagues, who also want to get something done.
“And so, today, again, off script but in my heart, we are standing here for the American people saying, we can end this today. And we are saying to the President of the United States – I hope you can hear us. We are saying to the President of the United States: you said it yourself after Tuesday’s election, this is hurting Republicans. Well, you know what? It’s also hurting all of America. And so, we hope that you will engage in something that is simple and clear.
“Open the government and make sure we restore people’s [ACA] tax credits, together. Again, how long? Long, if we choose to be. But we have a choice in this moment, and so we hope that you will come to the table. Let’s make a deal.”
###
Senator Lisa Blunt Rochester represents Delaware in the United States Senate where she serves on the Committees on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs; Commerce, Science, and Transportation; Environment and Public Works; and Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.