NEWS: Senators Blunt Rochester and Padilla, Representative Davids, 87 Lawmakers Urge Protection of Electric Vehicle Investments in Bipartisan Surface Transportation Negotiations
November 21, 2025
Washington, DC
–
U.S. Senator Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.)
joined
U.S. Senator Alex Padilla (D-Calif.)
,
Representative Sharice Davids (D-Kan.-03)
, and 87 other lawmakers in
pushing
Senate Environment and Public Works and House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee leadership to protect electric vehicle (EV) investments while reauthorizing bipartisan surface transportation legislation.
The lawmakers reaffirmed their commitment to supporting a similar bipartisan surface transportation process to the historic passage of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, but they stressed that the reauthorization cannot truly be bipartisan if it furthers the Administration’s attacks on electric vehicles. Since taking office, the Trump Administration has sought to dismantle federal EV programs, including freezing the National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) Program and rolling back other Congressionally authorized initiatives.
The lawmakers emphasized that bipartisan programs like NEVI, the Charging and Fueling Infrastructure (CFI) discretionary grant program, the Carbon Reduction Program, the Reduction of Truck Emissions at Port Facilities (RTEPF) program, and the Low or No Emission Grant Program (Low No) expand consumer choice, create American jobs, lower costs, and strengthen U.S. competitiveness. They warned that undermining EV programs puts significant economic and workforce gains at risk, while undermining long-term planning and ceding progress on EVs to China.
“The
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
(IIJA) represented a historic investment in strengthening and building out our national infrastructure. We have a unique opportunity to not only reauthorize this foundation but bolster many of the highly popular and effective transportation programs authorized by the
IIJA
,”
wrote the lawmakers.
“Attempts to eliminate investments in cleaner transportation run counter to the cooperative spirit this process depends on. While we understand that reforms may be necessary and that legislating inherently requires compromise, we urge you to ensure that this reauthorization process does not take a partisan tenor replete with extraordinary attempts to undercut zero-emission technologies, investments, and American innovation.”
“Eliminating dedicated investments in EV and alternative fueling technologies would represent a departure from the bipartisan cooperation that has always driven surface transportation legislation,”
concluded the lawmakers.
“We remain committed to advancing American transportation innovation, safety, and excellence, and we hope the reauthorization process will maintain that same spirit of partnership.”
More than $200 billion has been invested in domestic EV manufacturing capacity since 2022, expected to create over 160,000 jobs across the country in charging manufacturing alone. These investments have been made on a bipartisan basis: 22 of the 25 Congressional districts with the greatest share of EV manufacturing capacity investment are represented by Republicans. In California, the zero-emission vehicle industry supports over 70,000 jobs across more than 360 companies.
In addition to Senators Blunt Rochester and Padilla and Representative Davids, the letter was also signed by Senators Angela Alsobrooks (D-Md.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.), Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Mark Kelly (D-Ariz.), Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.), Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Jack Reed (D-R.I.), Jacky Rosen (D-Nev.), Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Raphael Warnock (D-Ga.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), as well as Representatives Gabe Amo (D-R.I.-01), Becca Balint (D-Vt.-AL), Nanette Barragán (D-Calif.-44), Ami Bera (D-Calif.-06), Don Beyer (D-Va.-08), Brendan Boyle (D-Pa.-02), Julia Brownley (D-Calif.-26), Salud Carbajal (D-Calif.-24), André Carson (D-Ind.-07), Sean Casten (D-Ill.-06), Kathy Castor (D-Fla.-14), Judy Chu (D-Calif.-28), Emanuel Cleaver (D-Mo.-05), Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.-09), Jim Costa (D-Calif.-21), Madeleine Dean (D-Pa.-04), Diana DeGette (D-Colo.-01), Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.-01), Chris Deluzio (D-Pa.-17), Mark DeSaulnier (D-Calif.-10), Lloyd Doggett (D-Texas-37), Sarah Elfreth (D-Md.-03), Dwight Evans (D-Pa.-03), Valerie Foushee (D-N.C.-04), Laura Friedman (D-Calif.-30), Maxwell Frost (D-Fla.-10), John Garamendi (D-Calif.-08), Jesús “Chuy” García (D-Ill.-04), Robert Garcia (D-Calif.-42), Daniel Goldman (D-N.Y.-10), Maggie Goodlander (D-N.H.-02), Josh Gottheimer (D-N.J.-05), Val Hoyle (D-Ore.-04), Jared Huffman (D-Calif.-02), Jonathan Jackson (D-Ill.-01), Sara Jacobs (D-Calif.-51), Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.-07), Henry “Hank” Johnson (D-Ga.-04), Greg Landsman (D-Ohio-01), Mike Levin (D-Calif.-49), Ted Lieu (D-Calif.-36), Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.-18), Seth Magaziner (D-R.I.-02), Doris Matsui (D-Calif.-07), Dave Min (D-Calif.-47), Kevin Mullin (D-Calif.-15), Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.-12), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.-AL), Ilhan Omar (D-Minn.-05), Chris Pappas (D-N.H.-01), Scott Peters (D-Calif.-50), Chellie Pingree (D-Maine-01), Nellie Pou (D-N.J.-09), Deborah Ross (D-N.C.-02), Hillary Scholten (D-Mich.-03), Kim Schrier (D-Wash.-08), Lateefah Simon (D-Calif.-12), Eric Sorensen (D-Ill.-17), Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.-14), Shri Thanedar (D-Mich.-13), Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.-02), Dina Titus (D-Nev.-01), Paul Tonko (D-N.Y.-20), Derek Tran (D-Calif.-45), Juan Vargas (D-Calif.-52), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.-12), Nikema Williams (D-Ga.-05), and Frederica Wilson (D-Fla.-24).
The Zero Emission Transportation Association (ZETA) and CALSTART expressed their strong support of the lawmakers’ letter.
“Negotiations for the surface reauthorization bill have a long history of bipartisan collaboration that has resulted in many popular programs and initiatives to modernize and advance transportation in the United States,”
said Albert Gore, Executive Director of the Zero Emission Transportation Association.
“This has included creating an investment-friendly environment that has resulted in billions of dollars worth of investment in our nation’s EV and battery supply chains that are expected to create more than 160,000 new manufacturing jobs. It has also included investments in our nation’s infrastructure to expand the charging network and help millions of drivers choose electric transportation. As members of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works and the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure move forward with negotiations for the upcoming bill to reauthorize surface transportation programs, we appreciate this letter highlighting the importance of continued public policy to support ongoing investment in the U.S. and the drivers that are choosing alternative drivetrains.”
“The Infrastructure, Investment, and Jobs Act delivered transformative investments to accelerate the low- and no-emission vehicle industry. These investments have created jobs, improved public health, and strengthened the global competitiveness of the U.S. transportation sector as advanced vehicle technologies rapidly grow worldwide,”
said CALSTART Head of Policy, Trisha DelloIacono.
“We applaud the congressional leaders who signed this letter and who recognize the need to build on the progress initiated in 2021. These members understand that continued investment in a diverse mix of fueling and vehicle technologies is essential to maintaining – and expanding – America’s share of the global transportation market. CALSTART looks forward to working with Congress as this legislation advances and to ensuring members understand the importance of including electrification funding in the next infrastructure package.”
Earlier this year, Senator Blunt Rochester joined Senator Padilla and all the Democratic members of the Committee in
demanding answers
from Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Sean Duffy about the abrupt cutoff of funds for the NEVI Formula Program, illegally jeopardizing $384 million for critical zero-emission vehicle infrastructure along California’s highways.
The full text of the letter is available
here
and below:
Dear Chair Capito, Ranking Member Whitehouse, Chairman Graves and Ranking Member Larsen,
As the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and Senate Environment and Public Works Committee develop the surface transportation reauthorization bill, we write to reaffirm our commitment to the bipartisan collaboration these committees are known for. At the same time, we want to make clear that a reauthorization bill that undermines critical investments in zero-emission vehicles and associated charging and fueling infrastructure would not meet the standard of bipartisan cooperation that has always driven surface transportation legislation. This process should begin with upholding the agreements made in the last authorization bill and safeguard congressionally authorized and appropriated funding from rescission, reprogramming, or impoundment – particularly when it comes to vehicle electrification programs.
The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) represented a historic investment in strengthening and building out our national infrastructure. We have a unique opportunity to not only reauthorize this foundation but bolster many of the highly popular and effective transportation programs authorized by the IIJA. Attempts to eliminate investments in cleaner transportation run counter to the cooperative spirit this process depends on. While we understand that reforms may be necessary and that legislating inherently requires compromise, we urge you to ensure that this reauthorization process does not take a partisan tenor replete with extraordinary attempts to undercut zero-emission technologies, investments, and American innovation.
Programs like the National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) program, the Charging and Fueling Infrastructure (CFI) discretionary grant program, the Carbon Reduction Program, the Reduction of Truck Emissions at Port Facilities (RTEPF), and the Low or No Emission Grant Program (Low No) were the product of bipartisan negotiation. They expand consumer choice, reduce costs, and strengthen U.S. leadership in transportation technology. None of these programs or the projects they fund constitute a mandate. In fact, programs like NEVI and CFI provide the roadway infrastructure needed to refuel or recharge advanced vehicles, enabling consumers to choose vehicles that best meet their needs without being constrained by range anxiety or refueling gaps. The CFI program in particular supports refueling infrastructure for a range of technologies, including hydrogen, electric, natural gas, and propane. Eliminating or repurposing funding for these programs would undercut the multi-year bipartisan surface reauthorization process, which is essential to giving states and localities the stability they need to plan long-term infrastructure projects. That stability is lost when Congress cedes its constitutional powers to the Executive Branch.
Federal investments in electric vehicles (EVs) have also created well-paying American manufacturing, construction, and maintenance jobs, reinforced by the existing strong Build America, Buy America requirements. Since 2022, more than $200 billion has been invested in domestic EV manufacturing capacity. Notably, 22 of the 25 congressional districts with the greatest share of this investment are represented by Republicans. These projects are expected to create over 160,000 jobs in charging manufacturing alone. Stripping financial support for the infrastructure that sustains these industries jeopardizes both the success of these investments and the economic mobility of our constituents. Moreover, abandoning these commitments cedes the industries of the future to China and undermines American competitiveness in the global economy.
We urge your committees to approach surface transportation negotiations collaboratively, incorporating and standing by key priorities from both sides of the aisle. However, eliminating dedicated investments in EV and alternative fueling technologies would represent a departure from the bipartisan cooperation that has always driven surface transportation legislation. We remain committed to advancing American transportation innovation, safety, and excellence, and we hope the reauthorization process will maintain that same spirit of partnership.
###
Senator Lisa Blunt Rochester represents Delaware in the United States Senate where she serves on the Committees on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs; Commerce, Science, and Transportation; Environment and Public Works; and Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.