NEWS: Senator Blunt Rochester Celebrates Approval of BEAD Project to Expand Broadband Across Delaware
November 18, 2025
Washington, DC
–
U.S. Senator Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.), a member of the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee,
today celebrated the announcement that the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) has approved Delaware’s proposal to deliver universal broadband access through the Broadband Equity, Access, and Deployment (BEAD) program. BEAD, a $42.45 billion federal grant program, was funded by the
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act
, which Blunt Rochester championed as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2021.
“Affordable and reliable internet connection is essential to almost everything we do today. Your zip code should not determine your ability to access the digital world,”
said Senator Blunt Rochester.
“Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and years of tireless work by folks in Delaware, I’m thrilled our final BEAD proposal was approved. This significant new federal funding will pave the way for a new era of connectivity for students, families, and businesses across our state.”
Senator Blunt Rochester has spent months pushing the Trump administration for transparency as they created unnecessary delays to the approval of Delaware’s proposal. In June, after the U.S. Department of Commerce announced substantial changes to the implementation of the BEAD program, Senator Blunt Rochester
joined a coalition of more than 40 of her congressional colleagues
to demand answers, urging the department to reverse course. Additionally, Senator Blunt Rochester joined U.S. Senator Jackie Rosen (D-Nev.) in
leading 13 of their fellow Senators
in expressing deep concern at the NTIA’s issuance of guidance that added needless delay to the approval process. In July, Senator Blunt Rochester
stood alone
to directly press Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick on his mandating of unnecessary red tape and its subsequent impact on Delawareans.
To read the full announcement, click
here
.
###
Senator Lisa Blunt Rochester represents Delaware in the United States Senate where she serves on the Committees on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs; Commerce, Science, and Transportation; Environment and Public Works; and Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.