[congressional record volume 163, number 151 (tuesday, september 19, 2017)] [senate] [pages s5831-s5833] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] recognizing the 70th anniversary of the united states air force mr. boozman. mr. president, i rise to speak in honor of the 70th anniversary of the united states air force. in the seven decades since its inception on september 18, 1947, the u.s. air force has bravely fought to protect freedom, liberty, and peace on every continent around the globe. from active participation in major international conflicts to providing humanitarian support throughout the world, the u.s. air force has continued to be the nation's leading edge across every domain and throughout every location by meeting the challenges of an ever-changing world with limitless strength, resolve, and patriotism. today, more than 100,000 airmen are standing watch at 175 global locations, committed to continuously defending the people and interests of the greatest nation in the world. as cochair of the senate air force caucus and the son of a retired air force master sergeant, i have been personally touched by the proud history of this distinguished service. from the earliest days of aviation when the department of war accepted its first military airplane to the present-day delivery of global airpower, the u.s. air force has made tremendous strides in the technological innovation and operationalization of air, space, and cyberspace warfighting capabilities. the earliest aviation pioneers believed in the notion of airpower and fought for its development into a force so formidable that its responsibilities [[page s5832]] and contributions would eventually be recognized as being equal to those of land and sea power. in essence, the birth of the u.s. air force began the dawn of a new era, where the skies became the ultimate high ground. as we celebrate this historic occasion, we must also remember and honor the courageous men and women of the u.s. air force, as the service would not be what it is today without these fine airmen. i had the privilege of speaking at the department of defense's national prisoner of war/missing in action recognition day last week. it served as a poignant reminder of the many sacrifices made by our men and women in uniform. one such airman, brig. gen. kenneth newton walker, played an important role in building the organization that would later become an independent air service. general walker's direct contributions to crafting doctrine and policy were instrumental to the creation of the modern u.s. air force. general walker was reported missing in action after his b-17 flying fortress went missing over papua, new guinea, in 1943, and was posthumously awarded the medal of honor by president roosevelt. the actions of fearless warriors like general walker symbolize a continuing commitment to meeting the demands of an increasingly dynamic and dangerous world with limitless strength, resolve, and determination. these dedicated airmen and their values of integrity, service before self, and excellence that they uphold in all they do embody a proud heritage, a tradition of honor, and a legacy of valor. we owe them a tremendous amount of gratitude for the sacrifices they have made defending the greatest country on earth on this, the 70th anniversary of the united states air force. i am especially proud of my home state of arkansas and its contribution to our air superiority. the little rock air force base and the 188th wing in fort smith play an important role in our national security. i am proud to support these missions and look forward to continuing to support our airmen stationed in arkansas and throughout the world. i am pleased to be here speaking on behalf of a grateful nation, remembering, honoring, and commending our airmen and the world's greatest air force. i yield back. mr. grassley. mr. president, i am pleased to support noel francisco to serve as the next solicitor general. mr. francisco comes to us with impressive credentials. he graduated from the university of chicago law school and clerked for judge luttig on the fourth circuit and justice scalia on the supreme court. he has spent time in both the private sector at prestigious law firms and in the public sector as counsel to the president at the white house and in leadership roles at the department of justice. mr. francisco has impressive experience arguing before the supreme court. his client won in each of the three cases he argued there. he has been named one of washington, dc's ``super lawyers,'' as well as one of the ``100 most influential lawyers in america.'' it is vital for the office of the solicitor general to have its leader in place, so i am pleased that, after waiting for over 3 months on the senate floor, we are finally voting on this nominee today. mr. durbin. mr. president, i rise in opposition to the nomination of noel francisco to be the solicitor general of the united states. the solicitor general--often called the ``tenth justice''--argues on behalf of the united states in the supreme court. it is a critical position in our government, and it is critical that we have a solicitor general with the independence to tell the president when the position he wants the united states to take before the court is indefensible. mr. francisco already had a troubling tenure as acting solicitor general earlier this year. he led the effort to defend the original version of the president's controversial travel ban. that executive order was blocked repeatedly in federal courts and was then withdrawn. in defending this unconscionable order, mr. francisco argued that there should be no judicial review when a president makes decisions on immigration policy on the basis of his national security assessment. the ninth circuit stated that ``there is no precedent to support this claimed unreviewability, which runs contrary to the fundamental structure of our constitutional democracy.'' if he is confirmed, mr. francisco would likely be called upon again to defend president trump's latest iteration of the travel ban when it is considered by the supreme court in october. when he was under consideration by the judiciary committee, i asked mr. francisco many questions to give him the opportunity to show his independence from president trump. for example, i asked him if he agreed with president trump's absurd claim that 3 to 5 million people voted illegally in the 2016 election. he refused to answer the question. i asked him if he believed it was appropriate for a president to ask an fbi director to pledge loyalty to him. he declined to comment. i also asked him about the constitution's emoluments clause, which prohibits government officials from accepting gifts or benefits from foreign states without congress's consent and which many legal scholars believe president trump has violated. mr. francisco actually had written an opinion on the emoluments clause when he was in the justice department's office of legal counsel. i asked him what he believed the founding fathers intended this clause to mean. his response? ``i do not have any well-formed views on the scope of the emoluments clause.'' it is puzzling that an originalist like mr. francisco would not comment on the original meaning of a constitutional provision, but he clammed up when it came to this particular clause which is directly relevant to president trump's behavior. while mr. francisco has been reluctant to demonstrate independence from president trump, he has been willing at many points in his career to demonstrate loyalty to special interests. for example, mr. francisco gave a speech at the 2015 annual conference of the community financial services association, better known as the trade association for the payday lending industry. here is what he said: ``the payday lending industry is facing the challenge of a lifetime. it is essential that, as an industry, you be prepared to respond on all fronts, and it has been my privilege to assist you in doing this over the last few years. this includes the legislative front, the regulatory front, and--my favorite--the legal front.'' let us be clear. we do not need a solicitor general who thinks it is a privilege to assist payday lenders. mr. francisco also was a prominent lawyer for the tobacco industry. his advocacy on their behalf prompted a number of national antismoking and health organizations to call for mr. francisco to recuse himself from tobacco-related litigation matters if he were confirmed. i asked mr. francisco if he would commit to recuse himself from tobacco litigation, but he would not make that commitment. mr. francisco has been eager to position himself alongside rightwing groups like the federalist society and the heritage foundation. he made this particularly clear at a speech he gave to the heritage foundation on may 19, 2016, when he said: ``we live in an era where our views, traditional views, are under constant attack. our adversaries have not even really tried to beat us through the democratic processes, but instead go straight to the courts, where they often win not by asserting that our views are legally wrong, but that they are so fundamentally illegitimate that the constitution prohibits them. and they now have an increasingly compliant judiciary that agrees with their policy views and that is unconstrained by legal principle.'' this is a troubling characterization, to claim that people who do not share the views of the heritage foundation are ``our adversaries.'' it is just as troubling to claim that the judiciary is acting ``unconstrained by legal principle'' whenever it disagrees with the views of the heritage foundation. comments like this raise serious questions about the ideology mr. francisco would bring to the solicitor general's office. make no mistake--president trump is likely to keep the supreme court [[page s5833]] busy. it has never been more important to choose a solicitor general who displays independent judgment and who is willing to say no if the views the president wants to execute are improper or unlawful. in my questions to him, i repeatedly gave mr. francisco the opportunity to display that independent judgment, but he did not do so, and what i have seen in his speeches and his advocacy concerns me. in short, i do not believe mr. francisco has demonstrated that he can be the solicitor general that our nation needs. i will oppose his nomination. mr. boozman. mr. president, i suggest the absence of a quorum. the presiding officer. the clerk will call the roll. the legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll. mr. markey. mr. president, i ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered.