i am sarah jacobs and i am running for congress in california's 53rd congressional district. definitely a night now. i am a nerd so it is the weeds by vox media. okay, honestly i do not know because i am not a lot of hepatectocs because it is a national security threat. i am jewish and a quote that i find really helpful and times like what we are living through is one from the talmud and it is do not be daunted by the enormity of the world's grief. love justly now, walk humbly now. you are not obligated to finish the task but neither are you free to abandon it. window i love sleeping on airplanes. good old voice club by casey musgraves. i believe we need a new generation of leaders who will look at old problems with the new lens and address them with the urgency that they require. look at new problems that we are not addressing like new technology. i do not know about you but when i see all those hearings with mark zuckerberg and others with a bunch of people who clearly have never used facebook or instagram or tiktok, i get very frustrated and also because it is not just about policies that we need to think about differently but also how we do things differently and we need a new generation of leaders who will find ways to listen to everyone and respect everyone and work together to get things done. yes. if millennials were adequately represented, we would have about 90 members of congress and instead we barely have 30 and it is only because of the huge numbers that we elected in the last election cycle. and that matters because as a young woman, i did not need the need to movement to know that sexual harassment in the workplace was a problem. i lived it and as young people, we are the ones who will be dealing with the consequences of decisions being made or not being made right now, long-riving anybody else on issues like climate change and gun violence prevention. and also because we are being impacted by so many of the decisions being made and we should have a seat at the table and we have a different perspective. you know millennials graduated in the great recession and that meant that so many of us could not find jobs. we could not buy homes. we are still dealing with the consequences and we are seeing the next generation dealing with the same issues which is why i proposed an unemployment insurance for graduating seniors, graduating students based on their expected future earnings instead of the earnings they had while they were in school because really it is the job they were going to get that they are missing out on because of this catastrophic economy that we have right now. yes. oh goodness. as a young woman you can imagine there are so many things to choose from. let us see. i have been told i should wear a bikini in ad so that men would want to vote for me. a head of woman told me she did not want to vote for me because she thought her husband would be for a woman. like lady, i do not want your husband. i have been told my hair should look more voluptuous that my voice is too high or i speak too fast that i just did not look right sitting at the head of a table but they were not sure why. i once thought i was recruiting a volunteer who turns out only wanted to see if i would go on a date for them. yeah, running for congress is a young woman can be a challenge. i say a few things. the first is regardless of how hard it is the only way it is going to get better is if people see more young people, women, people of color, in leadership positions because the only way they are going to get used to seeing and hearing and respecting leadership that looks different than what they are used to is by seeing it. so if we want things to get better, we have to jump in. the second thing i will say is that i see a lot of people who get lost by focusing too much on what they want to be instead of what they want to do. so you should find the problem that you really want to solve and then figure out the best way and where you can have the most impact solving it and that might be running for office and it might be working for a non-profit. i might be doing advocacy but as long as you stay focused on that problem that you want to solve, you will not go wrong. and lastly, especially as young women, i feel like we are told and we really internalize that there is always someone out there who knows more than we do or who is more qualified than we are. but i can tell you, you should do your homework absolutely. but you are enough right now and we need you and we need your voice. so if you think you have a contribution that you can make and that you can make a difference for your community, you should run it and do not let anyone tell you not to. so thank you for listening and watching. again, i am sarah jacobs, running for congress in the 53rd congressional district and i would be very honored to earn your vote. and do not forget that voting is happening now. this election could not be more important. that means we need all of you to get out and vote. so please vote early and vote by mail by november 3rd.