in so many families and communities, including my own, if you really need something done, you call grandma. and right now, we really need something done. we need the senate to pass the billback better act. and our message is very clear. care cannot wait. care cannot wait. that is right. that is right. you know, next week, the last child tax credit check is going to go out. and after that, the program is going to expire. so when you hear some of my colleagues say that what we need is more time, there is no rush. they are clearly not listening to the american people, because people are counting on us. and if we do not get this done, a lot of families who are expecting assistance on january 13th are not going to get it. in my district in san diego alone, the monthly payments have already helped 129,000 kids, 129,000 kids, just in my district. we have gone $32.7 million to local families. and nationwide, we have seen a massive reduction in child poverty. so it makes no sense to lift millions of kids out of poverty for a few months, only to let them fall back down. so i am proud to join grammys here, grammys in san diego, grammys across the country, all of the care workers to keep working to get this bill over the finish line, because it is not just the child tax credit. we need the build back better act to establish paid leave, create free and universal pre-k, lower child care, and family care costs, raise wages for care workers. and that is what makes this legislation truly historic. because for so long, we based our economic policies around men. we focus on job creation and wages in historically male fields and we left everyone else on the sidelines. we assume the domestic and care responsibilities would be taken care of by unpaid and underpaid women. but this time is different. and it is because of the work of those with us today and so many others who demanded better. and that includes all the grammys, because we certainly would not be here without all of you. that is right. doing things the way we have always done them just is not good enough anymore. it is costing our economy a trillion dollars in lost gdp because millions of parents and caregivers cannot afford the care they need to work. it is costing us another trillion dollars due to the adverse effects of childhood poverty. but we do not have to accept this. because the investments that we make and kids pay off across a lifetime, we actually save $7 for every $1 we invest in early childhood programs. so there are a lot of parents and grandparents who know that the way things are just is not working. there are too many families without affordable child care, too many primary caregivers without paid leave, too many families having to drain their bank accounts to afford care. and it is because of all of your work that i truly believe we are going to actually make change.