well, the race to represent california's 53rd congressional district in the house of representatives is one of several big races here in san diego. sarah jacobs, who is running against city council president george at gomez joins us now to discuss her race and explain her government ethics policy plan. good morning, sarah. good to see you. good morning. we are on great to see you again. okay, so why do not we start there? your government ethics policy plan. yeah, so there are three key parts to the plan. the first is eliminating conflicts of interest. so when i am elected, i plan on putting all of my assets into a blind trust. and i think every member of congress should be required to do so as well. the second piece is lobbying reform, banning members of congress from becoming lobbyists, banning federal lobbyists from from contributing or bundling contributions to federal campaigns and expanding the definition of what lobbying is so that more people have to disclose the gifts that they are giving. and then lastly, to fix our very broken campaign finance system, including by a constitutional amendment to overturns and unite it. well, you know, this idea of ethics and your policy plan is rather timely, especially looking at your race, which was getting heated between the two of you, both being democrats and fighting for a lot of the same endorsements and votes. but recently you had a big endorsement from the union tribune after pointing out they reported after discussing with two independent tax attorneys that your opponent, george at gomez, failed to report more than $100,000 in income on her taxes. your thoughts on that. the next congress is going to be making really important decisions about where federal recovery dollars are going as we are getting through this crisis that we are in. and i think it is incredibly important that we have leaders who sweat the details, who take responsibility and who are going to be able to do the hard work of bringing our country together through this crisis. your opponent really pointed out that after there was this scrutiny that you should be releasing your tax returns, which you did showing significant income, mostly from capital gains. and you are actually voting in favor of some reform there. yeah, look, i think i should be tax more and i think my family should be tax more. it is going to take all of us working together to get through this crisis and everyone needs to be paying their fair share. so i think we need to increase the capital gains tax. i think we need to close loopholes. and i think we need to bring the highest marginal tax rate up. and so when in looking at the significant economic impact that your district will be seeing in addition to really nationally what we are going to be experiencing, what what will be your priorities in order to help some of the most hardest hit industries. yeah, i have been talking to folks across the district and people are really struggling. so my focus will be making sure that federal recovery gets to those who need it most, including our families and our small businesses. we know our small businesses need a lot more assistance. i think there was a study that showed that about 60% of small businesses in chulavista are likely to close if we do not get more federal assistance. and i have been working on a small business plan with small business owners across the district and then making sure that the stimulus plan addresses our childcare constraints and is fixing the housing crisis that we were already in here in san diego, but we know that this economic crisis has only made worse. all right. so we have got about three weeks to go. what will be your priorities moving forward? we are just trying to talk to as many voters as possible and focus on what i am going to do when i get there to make their life a little bit better. all right. sarah jacobs candidate for the 53rd. thank you so much for joining us this morning. appreciate it. of course. thanks for having me. take care. all right. and just a reminder, sarah jacobs is running against a democratic current president of the san diego city council, georgia gomez for the seat being vacated by representative susan davis. a local nonprofit is