[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 16 (Monday, January 29, 2024)]
[House]
[Pages H264-H265]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
DR. MARGARET B. HILL POST OFFICE BUILDING
Mr. DONALDS. Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1060) to designate the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1663 East Date Place in San Bernardino, California,
as the ``Dr. Margaret B. Hill Post Office Building''.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1060
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DR. MARGARET B. HILL POST OFFICE BUILDING.
(a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 1663 East Date Place in San Bernardino,
California, shall be known and designated as the ``Dr.
Margaret B. Hill Post Office Building''.
(b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation,
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the
facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be
a reference to the ``Dr. Margaret B. Hill Post Office
Building''.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. Donalds) and the gentleman from Maryland (Mr. Raskin) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Florida.
[[Page H265]]
General Leave
Mr. DONALDS. Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and
include extraneous material on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from Florida?
There was no objection.
Mr. DONALDS. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
I rise today in support of H.R. 1060, which names a post office in
San Bernardino, California, for Dr. Margaret B. Hill.
Dr. Hill attended California State University, San Bernardino, and
spent much of her life as an educational leader in the San Bernardino
community.
She served as the principal of San Andreas High School for 16 years,
and later as the assistant superintendent of administrative services
for the San Bernardino school system.
In 2001, she was elected to the San Bernardino City Unified Board of
Education, a position she remained in for 10 years.
Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues to support this legislation
honoring a dedicated, local civil servant, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 1060 to designate the facility of the
United States Postal Service located at 1660 East Date Place in San
Bernardino, California, as the Dr. Margaret B. Hill Post Office
Building.
The legislation introduced by my friend and colleague, Mr. Aguilar,
would rename the Del Rosa Post Office to honor Dr. Hill, a beloved
educator and longtime advocate for the people of San Bernardino.
I yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from California
(Mr. Aguilar).
Mr. AGUILAR. Madam Speaker, I thank the ranking member and the
majority for working with us on this bill.
I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1060, which would rename the
Del Rosa Post Office in San Bernardino after Dr. Margaret B. Hill.
Dr. Hill was truly the heartbeat of San Bernardino. Her life was
marked by an unparalleled commitment to both community in the classroom
and beyond. Through her compassion, her dedication, and her generosity,
she changed countless lives for the better.
As an educator and advocate, she ushered in positive change and
steered students in the right direction for a brighter future. She was
called the North Star for the San Bernardino County community when it
came to issues of poverty, homelessness, race, and foster youth.
After decades in the classroom as a teacher, vice principal, and
principal, she retired but still found time to serve as an educator
before she became elevated to serve as an elected school board member.
For Dr. Hill, there was simply no task that was beneath her when it
came to helping students. Her tutelage has shaped our community in
profound ways leaving an enduring legacy that transcends time.
I am so proud to lead this bill to enshrine her legacy in San
Bernardino. I hope it will remind all of us in the years to come that
we must continue to carry forward that legacy. I was honored to know
her and work with her, and this will ensure that future generations
will recognize and appreciate the impact that Dr. Hill had on our
community.
Madam Speaker, I urge adoption of this bill.
Mr. DONALDS. Madam Speaker, I have no further speakers, I am prepared
to close, and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I have no further speakers, but I
encourage all of my colleagues to join us in honoring the life of Dr.
Hill by naming the post office in San Bernardino after her.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. DONALDS. Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this
bipartisan bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Donalds) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 1060.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. DONALDS. Madam Speaker, I object to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further
proceedings on this question will be postponed.
The point of no quorum is considered withdrawn.
____________________