[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 10 (Thursday, January 18, 2024)]
[House]
[Page H194]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
TRIBUTE TO MADISON MARSH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. Womack) for 5 minutes.
Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the new Miss America,
Madison Marsh; that is, Second Lieutenant Madison Marsh of Fort Smith,
Arkansas, crowned Miss America 2024 in ceremonies in Orlando, Florida,
last Sunday.
Now, for the record, Mr. Speaker, it should be noted that she
competed under the title of Miss Colorado, having been a cadet at the
U.S. Air Force Academy.
This amazing young lady graduated from Fort Smith Southside High
School in 2019, and it was in the foyer of her high school where I
first became acquainted with her. She met with me to discuss the
possibility of her attending the Air Force Academy. After a brief
discussion, it became clear to me that she had all the attributes we
look for in future military officers, and she earned the designation as
my principal nominee to the academy that year. Soon thereafter, the
academy brass agreed with my nomination and gave her an appointment.
In her 4 years at the academy, Lieutenant Marsh excelled at
everything, and she graduated and received her commission in the Air
Force in June of 2023.
Just prior to graduation, however, she won the title of Miss Colorado
and earned a trip to the Miss America Pageant, where she became the
first military officer in the history of the pageant to compete for the
title of Miss America. Then, on Sunday, last Sunday, just before 10
o'clock eastern time, she was crowned Miss America.
Mr. Speaker, it is hard to put into words how proud I am of this
young lady. In this job, I have the opportunity to work with a lot of
very special people. She is certainly one of them.
Few people have the blend of intellect, talent, poise, fitness, and
beauty as Madison Marsh--an astrophysics major, selected for pilot
training, Truman Scholar, Rhodes finalist. Accepted into Harvard
Kennedy School, she is well on her way to her advanced degree in this
prestigious university--now, Miss America.
All of that is impressive, for sure, but one of the most redeeming
qualities of this young lady is her passion for finding the cure for
pancreatic cancer, a cause she has taken up due to the untimely death
of her mother, Whitney, at age 41. That led to the founding of the
Whitney Marsh Foundation, purposed in raising awareness and funding for
pancreatic cancer research.
This new platform will give rise to an increased awareness of this
dreadful disease, and Lieutenant Marsh is the perfect spokesperson.
I have had the privilege of being associated with three Miss
Americas: Elizabeth Ward from my hometown of Russellville, Arkansas in
1982; Savvy Shields, Miss America 2016 from Fayetteville, Arkansas; and
now, the reigning Miss America, Madison Marsh.
What an honor, Mr. Speaker, to have played a small role in this young
lady's success. We join her family, her father, Mike; sisters Heidi and
Sarah; brothers Nick and Chris; and her extended family in
congratulating Madison Marsh for this terrific honor.
I know Whitney, who is looking down from Heaven, is enormously proud
of her daughter for what she has become. Now, the rest of America
knows.
____________________