why do book separatory i könnte i am sorry. i am sorry. i am sorry. you look so good. you look so good. you guys can make some great food. oh, great. yeah, sure. that is a good one. yeah. all right. okay, i will see you later. okay. thank you. thank you very much. thank you. thank you. oh, that one. that one. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you very much. thank you. thank you. okay, ladies and gentlemen. thank you so much for coming to hilly for america new jersey's official statewide headquarters grand opening. so it is hot. in fact, it is not hot. so let me let me be as very brief as possible. i really want to go and talk to the overflow crowd because what a wonderful problem we have that we did not anticipate such an amazing when i drove up here and i saw a lot of like what are they waiting for? are they giving away free pizza? yeah. and then i see for here all to bring energy and enthusiasm to what we are doing here today. so let me be clear. we have the right candidate. now i have to say i was down a new brunswick when she was here a few while and i got into this dianu chant. i was like, and for those of you who do not know what i am talking about, please find a member of the tribe around you and ask them what dianna means. or some big boy like me who happens to know a lot about judaism. but it would have been enough. it would have been enough if this was just the most experienced secretary of state and accomplished one we have had in decades. it would have been enough if this was just someone who was a great united states senator. it would have been enough if this is a person who has endured republican tax and has shown enough grit and strength and courage under fire. it would have been enough if this was just someone who had the best policy plan. it would have been enough if this was just somebody that was going to make history and be the first woman president ever in the united states. i could go on and on with my dianu chant. give me one dianu just for my soul, please. thank you. it would have been enough. i know somebody is about to sing for me. i am sorry, i am sorry, i want you that. i do not have an obama-like voice. i would literally hurt people. it would have been enough for all those things. but this is not about the candidate we have. i am telling you right now, this is going to be an election that is won on the fundamentals. it is going to be won in the trenches. it is going to be won by individual. in fact, we already know political scientists say this. that the most persuasive things to get people to vote is not a campaign ad that we are spending millions of dollars doing. it is not a mailing. the most persuasive things is neighbors talking to neighbors, friends talking to friends. that is the most persuasive thing in a campaign. and so you have to under, please hold on to these ten words. these ten two letter words, two simple two letter words, ten of them. hold on to them for the next 51 days and beyond. because when it comes to change, king said it, change does not roll in on the wheels of inevitability. it must be carried in on the backs of foot soldiers, foot soldiers for justice, for love, for peace, for hope. and so these ten two letter words hold on to them. it is simply this, if it is to be, it is up to me. if it is to be, it is up to me. you have got it, the question you have got to ask yourself is not what is going on in the news, what you saw on cnn, what rachel is telling you, i love rachel. but you got it, you got to think to yourself, what am i doing today for the cause of this country? what am i doing today for the cause of our children, for immigrants, for those in prison? what am i doing today for the, as the bible says, for the least of these? what am i doing today for my environment? and if you answer not enough, then hey, think to yourself, i am going to phone back a little bit more, or i am going to find a way to get my friend to do some phone banking, or i am going to give $10 online, something that you can do can make the difference, especially in states that are so narrow right now like pennsylvania. i am amazed at how tight this race is when the issues are so obvious. and so my call to everyone here is we are jersey, when the chips were down and our backs were against the wallets in this state that we literally in the battle of trent and turned the course of human events and made real on this country's problem. this is new jersey. we want to look at pivotal links in the most important infrastructure project ever. it was the underground railroad right through this state. it is this state that in so many chapters of our country that we stood up. so it is hot, so i am going to tell you one story and get up. what did i say? not hot as hot. so let me just tell you this anecdote from my life that is sort of surreal. so i did not know secretary clinton before this primary. i would be candid with you. i knew just like john courier chairman, i made my decision just based on an intellectual analysis of who can make a big difference for my state. and frankly, i know there is 99 other senators. i do not know where they will go home to, but i go home to the central ward of newark to a census track and roll the poverty line. i have urgency every day that i wake up and i made a decision to support her based on policy. but i got to hang out with her a lot on the primary trail. and that is when you get to know somebody. i have the same and i want to say to all the young people here that might be single. this is like a test that i have. so i am sorry to go off onto the personal now, but dave barry has this saying. he says, someone who is nice to you, but not nice to the waiter is not a nice person. and i always remember that. and so i like to look at people. i like to look at people on how they treat folk that when nobody's watching, how they treat folk that can do nothing for them. one of my first judges of other people, i do not need to stand in judgment of anybody because lord knows i have failed my own tests. but it is kindness, kindness, kindness, kindness. and so, you know, i am on the trail with secretary clinton and we get a lot of time. i am hanging out with her. i am hanging out with her before you know, driving to events. i am hanging out with her backstage at some very long-winded politician like me is speaking on and on and on. and we go to diners together. and i am sitting with her in a diner in iowa. and everybody's sort of going away. and i sit down with her. and this was the second i made this mistake with a reporter. and it got ugly because i ever all this have our gaps. and i just told the reporter, oh, i remember the day i fell in love with hillary clinton. and they are like, oh, book her in love with hillary clinton. you know, i can just see the tabloids running with that one. there is been a lot of time on the campaign trail together. but this is the moment i fell in a gop-a-love with hillary clinton. and i am sitting there at a diner and we are both hungry. we have both been moving a lot and the server comes over. and this amazing woman so much energy, she is waiting on the secretary in some black guy from jersey. yeah, whoever, whatever, whatever. she is looking at the secretary clinton. and i just see the two of them start getting in a conversation. and they ask her, she asks her, hey, is this your only job? she goes, no, i work another full-time job. really? what do you make? she makes $2.13 an hour plus tips. not enough money to choose a single mom. not enough money to support her family. so she has to work another job. what do you do when you get sick? i come to work. thousands and thousands of food service workers come to work every day. sick because they do not have sick leaves. so they are communicating those diseases to other folks. and they just start getting, but when she starts talking about her children, suddenly i saw that hillary clinton is not in this for ambition. she is not in this because she wants to smash a glass ceiling. i suddenly felt her spirit that this to her is about the unfinished business of america. there is an urgency about this for her. she takes this personal, i saw this tired, hungry woman. once she starts talking to this other incredible, tired woman working two jobs, they both lit up. i saw her energy. when we used to learn the next stop, in iowa, she was on fire. and so this is something that happened between secretary clinton and i when we first started going out. because again, as you can see here, mark, do not write that down. i am not going out with secretary clinton. i am afraid of bill. he has a secret service. but when we started going out together, she started saying things to me because i would go to introduce her. and she would say to me, i would be told by her staff, you have two minutes. because they knew how long it could be. two minutes. and then i would start walking in and she would say, corey, corey. i go, yes, she goes, i want you to give them the full corey book of. and i would be like, i would be like secretary clinton. i was told by your staff that i have got two minutes and she would look at me almost astonished. and i would say that to her. she would, corey, i am in charge. and i would be like, okay, she would be like, give them the full corey book of. and so that day it runs, which she was here for an event. we are walking at the same exact thing happened again. she is like, corey, corey, i want you to give them the full corey book of. and i said, your staff told me, one minute. even when she called me, it was a friday night before the monday convention. she called me up to tell me what i think has been great news that she was picking a guy named tim cain to be her vice president. and that the cnn cameras planted in front of my house. i was going to have to go out and give them some coffee and tell them, yo, i am the senator from new jersey now. and at least until 2020. so imagine this conversation. no, they are turning off the lights because it is hot. so that is where the conversation. she is talking to me about the vice presidency. then we swift right to policy. imagine this. she, on the verge of the convention, she switches right to policy. we start talking about criminal justice reform. and then we are about to hang up. and i had been working on my speech for the convention negotiating with her staff about this, about length of whatever. and then she goes to me. she goes, corey, you are about to give a very important speech for me. you are kind of opening up in prime time on the opening line of the convention. and she goes, i want you to do me a favor. and i said, what, secretary clinton? and she goes, i want you to give him the full corey point. and so i literally tore up my speech. went back to work, pulled it all miter, said, forget her staff. i am saying what i want to say. and so i want to end tonight by switching roles on you. i want to end today by switching roles on you. i want to be secretary clinton for a moment. and i want to look at each and every one of you. and i want to ask you right now, i want you to give them the full who you are. i want them to give them the full spirit, the best measure of your commitment. i want to give your full energy, your full commitment, your full drive, your full love, your full hope. give everything in these 51 days. if you give the full measure of your being to the cause of our country, not to a candidate, not to an election, but to a candidate. not to an election, but the larger campaign of our country. if you give that full measure, i promise you that the next time we gather in a hot sweaty room, we will gather with a celebration and a party and a night of the election with the election of secretary hillary clinton as the next president of the united states. thank you, everybody.