240 years ago, an english king said he would crush our rebellion, but americans from around our nation joined the fight from bunker hill to the battle of trenton they stood and so many fell giving their lives in support of our darell or darellion declaration that america we will rise. this is our history. this is our history. escape slay. knowing that liberty is not secure for some until it is secure for all. sometimes hungry, often hunted in dark woods and deep swaps, they looked up to the north star and said with a determined whisper, america we will rise. immigrants. immigrants risking their lives in times of sweatshops and child labor. they organized labor unions and devoted themselves to lifting the tired, the poor and the huddle masses. with fiercest of grit, they shouted so all could hear america we will rise. king pointed to the mountaintop, kennedy pointed to the moon from seneca falls to those who stood at stonewall inn giants before us said in a chorus of conviction, america we will rise. my fellow americans. my fellow americans. we cannot fall into the complacency or indifference about this election because still the only thing necessary for evil to be triumphant is for good people to do nothing. you know the saying. my fellow americans, we cannot be seduced by citizen about our politics because citizen is a refuge for cowards and this nation is and must always be the home of the brave. we are the united states of america. we will not falter or fall. we will not retreat or surrender. our values. we will not surrender. our ideas. we will not surrender the moral high ground. here in philadelphia, let us declare again that we will be a free people, free from fear and intimidation. let us declare again that we are a nation of interdependence and that in america love always trumps hate. let us declare. let us declare. let us declare. so the generation of yellowmore, canira, we are the united states of america. our best days are ahead of us and together with hillary clinton as our president america, we will rise. god bless america.