new jersey senator cory booker will also speak at the convention tonight. he was bettered as a possible running mate for hillary clinton. and we spoke to him earlier this morning. good morning. and they start with a dnc. does a dnc owe senator sanders an apology? well, i think that right now i want to move forward. i am not sure. i have not accepted through all these leaks that came out, but clearly, debbie wasserman told us to do the right thing. and announced that she is going to leave the dnc. i think that something bernie sanders has been asking for for some time. so i think that is a step in the right direction. this has got to be a convention where we come together, though. and i was not working with the dnc. i was advocating for my candidate. i think hillary clinton has run the right kind of race. and the two of them now have met come together. they have endorsed and we even unify as a party. should she speak tonight? should she speak to open and close? should she still participate in the ceremony at all, considering the big cloud that is over her head? you know, i hope that she is going to dispel the clasp by saying that she is going to resign. i think she is doing the right thing for the party. i think it is big of her to get out of the way. and i think really what this convention is going to be about is not that. it is going to be about really bringing our party together and unifying around secretary clinton. if unifying is the goal, then why have congresswoman schultz address this convention? she is likely going to be booed by sanders supporters. that is not a sign of unity. no, it is not, especially if that is what happens. and so, again, for me, i am focused tonight. i got a speech to give. and my focus is going to be talking about the unity, not of a party, but really the unity of our country and the importance for us as a nation to come together. you speak before the first lady, michelle obama. yes. how would she be a character witness for hillary clinton? well, i think that both obama's are going to have such a story to tell because they have worked with secretary clinton in an intimate way. they have seen her behind the doors. they have seen the service that she is rendered. and i think you can get no better character witness in america right now than the first lady, who i think is one of the most popular people in the united states of america. there is a new poll out showing after obama for the republicans and donald trump leading hillary clinton. what do you have to do other than show unity? well, i think the number one we have got to show a contrast. we had a very dark convention that showed a very negative of america. here is a country that is on a rise, especially compared to our european allies and the rest of the globe. we have our challenges. we have our difficulties, but we are not that somebody that has, frankly, not of the convention reflected in somebody who, frankly, has been tearing down america. that has been insulting you, namely america, for people with disabilities, to people of latino ancestry. we need to be a country that does not the greater demean other folks, but elevates our nation and pulls us together. there is a story today in wall street journal, and you have heard this before. it takes command of a changed party. that this democratic party is much more liberal than the democratic party of bill clinton. well, again, i do not know if i want to look at it as liberal conservatives. i think it looks about the pillars of our principles. we are a party that believes, hey, if you work a full time job, you should not be living in poverty. we are a party that believes that, hey, we should be investing in this nation again, whether it is infrastructure that creates jobs. we are investing in college education, so kids are graduating with monumental debt. if you look at the principles of our party, the principles are well-resonated with the american people who are struggling right now, and neither party is going to speak to their needs. let us talk about tim cain, who has now been named the vp. you know, it was rumored that you were on the short list. have you recovered after not? are you okay? i am just kidding. gail was teasing me last night. were you in the fetal position? yes. i do not have the news. and what did you say? what did you say? what did you say? well, when i say that, gail king, if she had teased me like that, but only a friend can, i actually rejoice in cain. no, because people, he describes himself, cory is boring. i wonder if that is a good word. and somebody said this about him. not the most exciting person in the world, but he has extraordinary depth about politics and humanity. i know your friends were there. yeah, well, let me just say right now, was that cory or tim cain? that is definitely tim cain. and this sort of bottom, what excites me? i am so excited about this, because he is a man of such honor and a goodness at his core. that is matched with competency. there is a lot of talkers in the senate. and i have seen us in caucus meetings where people are talking and nobody looks up from their blackberry. when he stands up, people look up and lean forward. so there is no dissension about this choice? he is a, and this is a beautiful thing about it. if you ask republicans and democrats to say the top 10 people in the senate were qualified to be president of the united states, he would get the most votes. he would be one of the people that got the most admiration from both sides of the aisle. senator, look, thank you for coming. thank you, guys, for having me. thank you.