how do you want us to do this? hallelujah. i am too young. i am too young. i am too young. that is one hour. let us get one down to the end. all right. as we break on, we go break on our two grander speakers and then have our battleboat. now, to back coriola. i see he got his back coming. in 1972, there was the national black political convention in gary. and percy ellis said, he was the one president of manhattan at the time. i was 17, born 18. they made my way to go to gary. it was chaired by mayor hatchin, where he just went one of the first black men elected with the help of reverend jackson. congressman dees had a model of mayor morocco. and i did want to have delegates from around the country to come and send a black political agenda in 1972. i remember that two years before that, reverend jackson had told us to go to new york, to campaign for ken gibson to be manned, he came to first black men. and he said to go to all search street. there is a place called the spirit house. and asked for mama baraka. and we did. and we got there, i was 16, i am going to door brother over the door, i had another guy she keep had big rope chain around the neck. and i said, we had to see a mama baraka. and he did a bar of gunning. i broke church by price, i did not know what that was. so i looked at him, i said, go to jackson, i was in the sea of mama baraka. he said, bar of gunning. i said, bar of gunning, he said, bar of gunning, we are here as far. i said, what happened? you know what? so i got to go with mama baraka from there on. little bit we know. and as god would have it that not only did kim gibson win, but now i can tell him that if mama baraka held revolutionized black american qualities, his son is now the mayor of new york. mayor of new york. mayor of new york. and i am here with a handrod. correct the fair of new york. i bring on the former mayor, who we succeed, who is now candidate for the president of the united states, who still lives in the house of developments in new york, and who has drawn back a line through the campaign, senator colerick. all right now, man, hakeem jeffens. listen, new york understand that you are a little milder between new york and brooklyn, because i will throw my nets. but i am happy to let that grudge go. you have great leaders like this. give it up, i will give it up. i want you to know, i left to become the united states senator, right, and leave my city without incredible leadership. there is a man who was a school teacher in his new york. you could go anywhere, when he graduated from now, when he started as a school teacher in new york, became a principal of central high school, became a city council person, and then he rose to be mayor of the city. i will tell you right now, new york is thriving, new york is coming back, new york is coming back, new york is coming up, who is, because we are not going to get the mayor. we are going to get over time. and let me say this, a lot of people forget who they are and where they came from. some people take a good breath now, we have got two black people running for president of the united states. but you have to understand, i would not be here right now, if it was not for two trailblazers who came before me, the first is surely shirley chisholm, a boy and a boy. and the second person, i was talking to the first person i had been voted for, 1988 when i was 18 years old, because a guy who cannot hold a lot, and that is jesse jeff. i am here not being here, but i am going to get rid of the trailblazers. and let me say it right now, it is interesting when you have something like this, where you have got everybody showing up, not just the core of fake computers and actresses like i see before me, but come on out. there has been at least a dozen or two presidential candidates who have all come to new york. and that said something, it does not just say something about the power of man. it also says something about the head of man who is truly right now the steward of the ongoing movement for civil rights and justice in our country, and that is the webinar, sharp. so i want to get right into a lot of sufferings. i said, we are talking to the pastors and ministers and get that preaching out of your system. because we got to talk some substance of policy here. our keen is extraordinary in his charisma. but when i need to govern and get the trenches and give legislation to the floor that will make a difference or new york or brooklyn, he is my partner in the house. and i want to just, i know there is a lot of media here. so i just want to get some things correct and be succinct. wow. now, i live in new york, new jersey. i live in brick city. this is a city that is all strut to knock out, those strut to knock out, and so people are trying to discount. but i do not forget the people that put me into politics. i was elected, dr. trump, council member, can i get a little help here? i was elected to my first office by the central order new york church. i am 1998. and i was put into office because we are a community that understands you cannot talk about america being a nation of opportunity for all, and let us just true for everyone. you cannot have a country as great poet said. there is a dream in this land that is back against the wall to save the dream for one. we must save the dream for all. nice and beautiful words are true. and so people look at burden poverty and rural poverty, and they think somehow it is just an accident of history. and i was talking this truth since i began my work, that we are dealing with systematic injustice in our country. that was designed by policies, practices designed by laws that have not only created deep pockets of poverty in our country, but have sustained them for years. now we need to know, and say loudly, that poverty is not a moral condition. it is not because it is somewhat lazy, or because of some kind of moral crisis on most people. you come to my neighborhood, and see folks who are working full-time jobs and are still below with poverty line. you see, poverty is not a moral condition, but a nation that tolerates poverty and the level we have right now is in moral crisis. we have to call out the cause of the crisis that we are in. we know today we have a racial wealth gap that is as high as it is ever been. in fact, the racial wealth gap right now is as high as this is our own life, and it is growing. but we cannot indulge in a historical amnesia when it comes to understanding that in our history, so many meaningful attempts to create wealth in the black community was met with repression and often even physical violence. but you can talk about these themes where you are familiar of the bonding of black wall street. and tulsa, we know the reign of terror, literally stripped business people and judges out of their homes to beat them, and often murdered that in the streets. that re-destruction period in the backlash that hakeem talked about and the legacy of that we are seeing now. some of the most important and ambitious policies have failed with everybody. the usher kid generation of people is the middle-class with designing ways to exclude african american communities. i do not have to educate this community about social security, excluding those professions that african americans were in, and my family was in domestic and agricultural workers, and the gi bill had discriminatory impact that federal housing policy, discriminatory impact, and intent. my own parents in 1969, all i grew up in, had to get white couples to close as they had just to get to the closing of our habits. over the course of my lifetime, this bias has been expressed in policies and policies that will also be our communities were redlining to place, but perhaps in my lifetime, when it was insidious legal uses of oppression have been seen in the system of mass incarceration and criminal justice system. today, let us call it like it is, and this biased system, full of racial and illicit racial bias and a verbal racial bias right now in america becomes a strong present, and there are more black men under criminal supervision in our country than all the slaves in 1850. and so where are we now? or we do not miss no? the rights and generation of americans, civil rights generation before me, that they struggled and gained ground that was covered, and we are now facing the backlash that the king talked about. let us be specific. people who are being perished from voting roles and those who are stealing elections that we heard for congresswoman debat. we have order id laws that explicitly desire to suppress the vote of black americans, black people americans, i was with native american brothers and sisters in north dakota, with laws explicitly designed to wipe them from their polls. we have in states like north carolina and congressional districts that have been gerrymandered with the sole purpose of suppressing african-americans, not coincidence or not. the campus of a major hbcu, north carolina ant, has literally been split into two congressional districts. and we have the ability to infranchise men in this country and explicit vestige of jim crow, and part of what michelle alexander-paul and her powerful vote, the new jim crow. and we have an administration that is actively right now trying to suppress the census count in communities like newark that are already under-counted to try to salute representation and power in communities of color. it is incumbent upon all of us that the people who want to help chart our path forward in the democratic party that we explicitly talk about how we got here and do not engage in the kind of historical amnesia that undermines our ability to deal with this normal. generations of policy-based and racism and white supremacy have got us to this point, and we should not be talking about how the next generation of policies will write the wrongs and vows to scales. we cannot deal with the future by not addressing the past and we cannot create a nation of one opportunity for all without making sure that we deal with the causes within the moral corruption that has undermined and challenged us since the founding of our country. come on now, the country's founding documents, i read them all the time. the people put the words on paper work in perfect geniuses. the declaration of independence refers to native americans as saddishes. women are mentioned in all blacks are fractions of human beings. i got involved in politics in 1988 and i will tell you right now life is about purpose, not position. i was driven into politics, pulled by my community to try to make sure that we break the wrongs. now i am going to tell you what, newark, ross is showing it, council of the trump is showing me. i have learned in newark from my neighbors and for community leaders who shaped me that we have got to get back to our country being about substance and not just sentiment. but i have had points in my career where i would angry, where i would upset, it is okay, but i was caught to turn anger into action, turn wounds into work, outrage into this outward. and in newark that is how we have made progress together by unifying our city, by unifying coalitions. we have been able to turn food deserts and get grocery stores into our community. some chains that i first talked to them laugh at me. we did just talk about the injustice of substandard housing. i know i was a leadership when i was there continuing to remember where i was. we built the affordable housing, double the production in a housing recession. we got investments into our city, the capital was not coming, and we made our community safer and our schools better. our city population now after 60 years of decline is growing and we are the economic center of activity for our state creating thousands of jobs for our community. we have delivered substance not just sentence. and look at this history now, look at the sentences that people use in their songs, in their pledges to hear things like, we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all are created equal. if we have the highest maternal mortality rates of all the donations. we hear this liberty and justice for all. we get to live in a nation as brian stevens says, that treats you better if you are rich and guilty than poor and innocent. we talk about being born out of many equal or bassoon, but we have people from the highest offices in land in our land, trying to pit folks against each other. these words cannot just be words, that we need to turn sentiment into substance, and that is the policy i want to talk to you about right now. i got elected to the united states senate. i was the fourth ever popular elected african-american in our country's system. but i was told by my parents, literally, that it is not enough just to have black faces and historically white places. the first things i did when i got there was to remark that it was one of the least diverse places i have ever seen or worked. and so i went right to work. i joined together with a friend of mine in my shots, and we said that this senate, the status of senators in the democratic party, cannot be so undiverse. you cannot have committees like the judiciary committee making decisions about imprisonment and liberty of african-americans, and not have black people in a rural and rural and rural neighborhood. hey! and so we went to schumer and changed our policy. and now every single democratic senator has to release the data of the diversity on their staff so we can see how many people are on their staff. not just senators, i am fighting for the leader of substance. that is why i swim with the al since i have been a senator. to talk about ways that have blacks have actual access to capital, to jumpstart black entrepreneurs, because we live in a nation right now where african-americans, you look at the capital as close and the black entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs. just about 2% of all the venture capital money in this country go into black entrepreneurs. that is why i work with al sharpen's demand and the people who are managing the biggest pension funds in the country. reverend allen and i have taken on this issue. i got to washington in 2013, i asked this in question, hundreds and billions of dollars of pension money being managed and we will stay into those tensions. we are paid into those tensions. and the irony is this pension money out is being used to be invested in communities so positive that being done and objectifying our community. and people are becoming millionaires and millionaires, and i asked this in question, i am not about sentiment, i want somethings, how many african-americans were managing the pension funds? guess what i found out? none, zero. now this is the irony, i got the data. i was very afraid so i was a gobby trust, but everybody else bring me data, i want to see them on. i told them the states that diversify their pension management, guess how they live in my first and the minority first do. according to martha's bank, they do better than the first than the majority of their managing money. we have got to start going from sentiment to substance and one of the ways i have done that is on this whole business community. i was outraged by sort of looking at the racial bias in government loan programs. in newark, ros and i have worked for years to try to make sure black entrepreneurs from our community can access the capital. we are seeing that in our communities, these businesses that are not just firms make a money but they are pillars of our community. to make sure that black and minimal school businesses get government contracts, investment to capital, because black-owned businesses, we know we are all here because the funeral operator is all here because the black barbershop will know that wealth is created in our communities if we are willing to see capital there. but opportunity is not equally distributed. only five metropolitan areas in america have 80% of all of these dollars, five metropolitan areas. and that is why i introduced the bill and got it passed into wall already that now we recently inject capital into communities that need them the most. my bill, investing in opportunity act, is creating so-called opportunity zones all across our country and has a potential and will bring billions of dollars to new investment into low income and black and black communities. and the evidence of that is right now is already an opportunity fund created for hbcus, which will invest in a development of mixed youth properties in communities near hbcus. these are the kind of investments that the federal government needs to be making under my leadership as a senator and god willing is the president of the united states. these are the kind of investments it will help to balance the scale. that is good with the great congress and climate earned yesterday. and talk about this 10-20-30 plan and help them to design it even better. this is to make sure that 10% of the federal funds go to communities where 20% of the population has lived under poverty for 30 years and get to what those are disproportionately black and brown communities. we are in new york city. things like this have entire groups of grant writers and others. but in a lot of our communities, a lot of our black and brown communities have a hard time there trying to compete for federal grants within our communities and they are able to land those dollars where our legislation will not just be about sentiment, it is substance of the new, drive more money in some other places. we need to be purposely investing in the kind of things that create both in our community, which is why we need to expand on and pass the kind of bedblock commitments that make our country real for everyone. and that is why i want to tell you one of the policy positions that i am pushing most. and that is something to do with called baby bonds. it is a federally funded stadium in town for every child in america that starts at birth and grows as they grow up. the man is very simple. my bill would roll back some of the giveaways and the trunk tax bill put into place close tax new goals and create a cap for every child in america who seek capital with $1,000. and it would grow up of the $2,000 for every child depending on the wealth of their family. by the age of 18, the most impoverished kids in our country were in access to, there is a $50,000 from seed capital to do things like create wealth to pay for college, to put a down payment on the home to jump start businesses. this is a policy that right here in new york, columbia university, i think the only bill that is kind in washington, they said that this bill alone would virtually close the racial wealth down in america. so i want to say what i think is first great about ready to express that i should pay the thing. because i believe having good paid conversations about repairing for past farm in our country in the context of reparations is really important. but this conversation cannot just become a political box checking exercise or a litmus desk without me. the boldest policies we are talking about right now cannot just be about sentiment or about acknowledging past the past. they need to be about actually balancing the economic scales and confronting the bias that persists right now in the present. because if they do not, they cannot guarantee. we may have people that speak to our issues, but we cannot guarantee that we will actually change the realities in communities like mine and the refugees. and that is why, that is why, when collective leaders tall stand up, they talk about real economic justice and cannot be color blind or race blind because the policies that got us here were very conscious of color and a denying opportunity for african americans. there is power in the persistent nature of racism and why supremacy are country and they got to confront how that bias has been baked into our system and most powerlessly now in a broken criminal justice system. the old jim crow is now a new jim crow. look, i know this because again, i look at the data. there is no difference. as keem said, this is all in a few letters with war on drugs. do not tell me that our incarceration rates are because of some of the reason. there were more marijuana arrests in 2017 than all violent crime arrests combined. the 500% increase in 1918 of criminal justice system has been overwhelmingly because of non-bladded drug crimes and before we arrested. there is no difference. there is no difference in drug use or dealing drugs with black and white. in fact, some studies show that white men are slightly more likely to sell drugs than black. the reality is there is no difference between black and white for selling or using drugs, but african americans are almost four times more black than to be arrested for drug crime. and the drug sentencing is a life sentence. why? because even when you get out of prison, here is a kid that got caught and convicted for doing things at two of the last three presidents that they needed to do. and now they cannot get a job, they cannot get a business license, they cannot get a loan from their bank. and that is why the c.b. court will be to contain myself with all these block-mopsies days. we are talking about legalizing marijuana, but they are not talking about expunching the records. there are not people who are insuring the individual bias system about taking those past dollars to get the marijuana and re-investing in their community that have been wrong. i was scared. this is so joke. like, can you get that bill out of the house? and over in the senate, we were battling the eternal justice bill. i was literally saying, next to al sharpton, you go sheen with the white house on the first step act. and i was battling this last provision in that would ban juvenile solitary confinement on the federal level. we got it in. and there were provisions in that bill that i knew. i had to have it in because of the impact, the crack cocaine, powder cocaine disparity making that like we need to do with marijuana, or retroactive the applied. that provision of the bill will affect the lives of two thousand people given the pathways to liberation. and guess what? 90% of them are after the american. this is substance that i have delivered because i will never forget who got me into office back in 1998. but we cannot stop there. that is why i introduced the next step act. please be making serious reforms for drug laws and sentencing guidelines and lower those mandatory minimums or revive my way to eliminate them. we need a fixed prison conditions that make real rotation possible. we need to better have law enforcement training to address persistent implicit bias and our systems of accountability and policing. we need to better have the entry into our communities, my bill to ban the bots on federal jobs is critical for that. and so i want to end by saying this. we cannot allow this to be a small election. they cannot be about one person and one office. so many of the things i talked about today, the lead in the water of millions of children in america. so many things i talked about today, work at a full-time job still brewing below the poverty line. so many things i talked about today, environmental justice and superfund sizes, disproportionately in low-income communities and communities of color. these things were going on before donald trump was elected as president i say. then, it started meeting as a response to one man and one office. we started this organization because of persistent injustice in our communities. and that is why i want to give a call right now for a different kind of election. we are folks who stand up before us, just do not tell us what we want to hear. and we have those that show they are committed in the substance of the policies they are putting forward that have a record of fighting and showing us who they are. people asking those are why do you still live in new york, new jersey? why do you still live in a low-income community or a united states center? do you live anywhere? because i am where i am. i am the one who communities are here. and so i want to put a challenge to you that my older brother, the better booker, when he was working for the illinois college and at the tennessee, he took me to the marine hotel yesterday was april 4th. the 54, to be the 51st year, since the assassination of norman wolf king. just who was there that day? mayor branca and myself and my king, we were not going in. we are the inheritors of a generation who marched for us. we want to have him because we live in a low-income community. we are the inheritors of a generation who just hindered the better for people of home who they can kill by good-than-changing as long. for kennedy to mentor edward b. we are here standing on the shoulders of giants. there is a lot going on with sentiment. they want substance. and my older brother took me to the marine hotel because he did not want to just show me the museum. he knows i know like this. he did not just want to show me the spot where norman was for king. he wanted me to look down and see right there on the ground where king was slaying is a block of stone with words in it. there were words from the bible. words from the torah from the quran. there were words that were uttered by joseph's brothers. when they saw joseph coming, that man would coat him in color. that man would dream and turp her. and that was the moment that they took joseph and threw him in the well to die. that is why many religious folks say sometimes you got to go to the pit before you go to the house. there is a lot of americans feeling like they are in the pit right now. young black men in the middle were only 6% of the population but they got the majority of the homicide victims in america. they are supposed to be in the pit right now. people were working that full-time job and still finding themselves for more month at the end of their money than money at the end of their month. they are supposed to feel like they are in the pit right now having their addiction or their mental industry with jail or prison not healthcare or treatment. they are supposed to know what the deal like in the pit right now is. young black men is going to become america. well, i would rather want to be a see that rock right there and what was written on it because those words when i read them, they were a challenge to my generation. rock is to the jeffries. a challenge to my generation. i read those words and i got a chill and i want to leave those words with you today as a challenge to you, as a challenge to us, as a challenge to america in this moral home. in a nation that every generation has struggled black folk and white folk and brown folk. from all backgrounds who believed in the cause of our country and the ideals of this nation, then even justice for all cannot just be words. everyone is struggling to die to make that real. this is our challenge now in the generation. what does it say right there? the words of joseph sprudd has been said. the whole here comes at the dreamer. let us slay him and see what becomes of this dream. what will happen to the dream of america on our watch? the dream of slating for freedom, the dreams of suffragettes or equal rights in the body that will be common to dream of our nation. the dream that everyone will be born with god's capacity and their dream soil, that will give them the opportunity to reach for their individual dream. what will become of the dream? well, i boldly proclaim to you that it is time for my generation. it is time for us to dream again. i boldly proclaim to you that it is time for us to dream again. it will give you the nation for everyone that has access to healthcare. it is time for us to dream again. for every child who has a dream public education, we want to put this info as i boldly proclaim to you that for every one who works so hard job, for all the living ways for the family, for the family to have freedom to live a healthy family forever life. just to some point of view, that we want to be connected to their family we want to be. we need to be on the side of the road roads and walk forward and thrive in圢種. are we have two more speakers with great remarks. we must present to you the end of the panel, the evasion panel we need to do our panel. let me make one observation. we have heard so much about the candidates, their positions of self-dust, but after this is over, what are we going to do with our communities? to prepare ourselves for the 2020 election. the next step, us united states senator jail, worked for vargan, and described himself to me as a champion for justice. the greatest need of an instant coverage, the leader and a friend of us senator corley booker. in and out, us senator jeff perkley for vargan. give him a hand, happy birthday. happy birthday to you all. happy birthday to you all. happy birthday to you all. wow. i am k.a. from jeff rape, corley booker, house in the senate, one extraordinary words, one powerful words, one powerful legislators, and one powerful leaders have another round of applause for us. i am a good candidate for the republican party. i am a good candidate for the republican party. i can tell you, i am just a humble leader, a son of a mechanic from the west coast of the united states. and my father, my father had this to say about the world, that air-free child is belonged by god, and serves an equal opportunity to thrive in this united states of america. every child, and that vision of opportunity, that vision of opportunity is one i have thought to honor my entire life. no, you come up in the food-caller community. community i still live in today. it is a connection i feel with corley. we know where they come from. and i pray for it is a privilege to live on this planet, to be in this country, and to fight for that vision, that whether you are a son and daughter or a ceo, or a middle worker, or mechanic, or whatever they were, you come from the whatever side of the railroad, actually, we have an equal opportunity to thrive here in the united states of america. that is what we are fighting for. but we know that is not the reality. we know about the barriers, and that is an opportunity that i had here a month ago, by god who was celebrating for 21st birthday. we decided to go right on down the jungle, as he went to stand to join his gathering down in alabama, to see how far we have come, and to honor how far we have to go. so we went to r&d. children's campaign in 1963. it won in segregation of public facilities, and was followed by a bombing campaign that included the bombing of the 16th street baptist church for a beautiful little girl's time. but let us give thanks to those who flattened that children's campaign and looked at that on the segregation. and john nilesi took us over to montgomery. and we stood where rosa parks stood, as she put her first step on that bus in 1955 to start the bus point taught that one, an opportunity for people to be treated equally in transportation in montgomery, 1955. let us celebrate that victory. and john nilesi took us down to the legacy museum, 816 steel coffins, representing the 816 counties that we know of when the streets happened across the united states. and those 816 steel coffins are stood upright. as you enter, they are coming up off the floor. and as you walk in and get further in, they are raised up a little bit. and pretty soon, they are hanging from the ceiling. and they are a reminder of the fact that 4,400 individuals were lynched across the united states of america, and they were hanging from a road. you just go through that. and john was reminded of how far we have come, but how far we have to go. and we went down to selma. the little night first trip to selma, back in 2015, the end of lacp said, we have come down and helped launch the jury for justice a thousand mile walk. the washington dc did fight for criminal justice before them. and that thousand mile walk, that is so hard. that was a powerful walk. but the first part of the walk was the most powerful. up over that end of the pettis bridge. and now a month ago, i was there with my daughter, and we were about to take that scene, walk up that ramp on the bridge. and as we came right underneath the end of the pettis sign of the bridge, i felt this huge wash of emotion. my daughter turned to me, and she said, what is wrong with him? and i said, here's what is wrong. it was back in march 7, 1965, that john was the world with the day. he was on this bridge. he knew go inside the museum there in the corner, and you can see the police walking towards him. he is first in line. then they started running towards him, and then knocking down, and they caught him on the head, and they overwound the crowd, and it was bloody sunny. they were fighting for portraits. and i said, next tuesday, two days later, they tried again. they were confronted, and they turned back. and then two sundays following that, two sundays following that, that they launched the march 3rd time. and they went up over that bridge, and right now i am going to montgomery, and they are going to the battle for bollywood. and they won that battle for bollywood, and that is in 1965. and my daughter looked at me and wondered, then, why not? maybe so said. because at that moment, it just came down on me like a brick. what we have lost, the last decade. the bollywood's battle, we have lost in the last decade. sometimes, most of the time, i like to believe that that vision of montgomery came set out, and he said that the art of the moral universe bends to war stress. it is long, but it is a judge bends to war stress. and i think about 1870, we won for every year, until every race, to have the honorary of the world, every man, every race, to have the right to vote. it was a big victory, and he said, in 50 years later, that we had the 19th amendment, and the ability for a women to vote. and then we come to the mid-60s, and we have the civil rights act, the wording rights act, and it seems like every 50 years, we are kind of leaping forward, and we come to 2008, and we have the election of barack obama, and i stood up there behind him, as a newly elected senator, and i came down with them all, looking down at the washington amendment, thinking the moral distance, the ball absolutely jammed with it, and i cannot talk to more people, they gave the drums a inauguration. well, i have a powerful moment, and i thought, let us keep going, let us keep going. but here's what happened. here's what happened. a supreme court, ever supreme court. are supreme court, and you know what? it does not matter that jefferson said, you have to have distributed power, or you will never have laws, reflect the will of people, and he called it the blood principal. the supreme court said, we do not care about that, we are allowing a concentration of power, so that the wealthiest billionaires, the country can put $100 million in a campaign, and that dark and dirty money is sweeping through our campaigns, while looking down at the rupting them, and in paper marks a supreme court, and we must stop it and it is. and then, the supreme court made it, and three years later, in 2013, was shelby kelly, and they ripped the heart, and that thing was 65, going right sack. i grew up thinking, of our supreme court as kind of, wide souls, fairly, and trueicating the vision of equality in the united states of america. but you know what they are doing now? they are a bison that are fighting, to turn our constitution on its head. so it is no longer, up by and for the people, but it is up by and for a few small people with a certain power. how about we take our constitution back, and then, they are raising people, more than people, thank you once again. and it continued, with march 2016, bixital model stealing, a supreme court scene, from barack obama, the first time in our us history nominee has been made and going for an even election year, and that step was all about making the corruption of the supreme court starting, with citizens united. and then the election, a donald trump. and then the senate republicans changed the role of 2017 to install neil. the force that she does not be loved on the part that they did not get there, and if they are just having the stolen scene. in 2018, as a result of shelby county, we had 23 states where the election was altered by new laws restricting the opportunity to vote. and that is a dark moment for america. and it continued just two days ago, mitch mcconnell changed rules as simple as we were doing, so he can pack the district courts and the circuit courts of america to continue to strengthen the power by the few that will be stood at top. that is not the vision of our constitution. and i want the vision for the people back and we will have to fight hard together and then it happens. very bad, senator. the voter suppression, dark and dirty, citizens united money, flooding, arcane pigs, our constitution truly is turned on its head. so what are you going to do about it? we are going to lay our cows for the bill over ahead. s-20, as that might be. they are going to do this right here, national action network, and you ready to act? because we are not going to act. we are going to get the open count in 2017. two days. perhaps the year republicans tried to wipe out health care for 20 to 30 million americans. let us not wipe out health care. let us make it better. simple, save less. the second half of the day you have a state in america. and the second half was a tax bill. a tax bill that took a trillion and a half dollars to join you to conclude interest and gave it to the most outflow of americans. now, anyone here, wipe that idea? you know, i do a lot of 10 halls for you. i have this year all done about 400. nobody's ever come to a 10 halls. i get this great idea, jeff. let us go and rob the national treasury of a trillion and a half dollars to give the richest people. as if that is one of the american better. because how about we get that trillion and a half back, or two trillion with interest and invested in health care and housing and education living with shops for better and better than the united states in america? no, johnson said, president johnson said, the vote is the most powerful instrument that ever予ized by men for breaking down injustice. but republicans listen, and they do not want injustice broken down. they want it built up. so we have to claim the vote. because if you cannot vote, you cannot elect leaders, leaders like hotkin, jeffries, and leaders like cory walker. you cannot break down injustice. you cannot secure laws that reflect the will of the people. everything we care about, taking on the predatory landing that blights our communities, taking on massive incarceration, taking on equality of opportunity for all the matter who they are, who they love, taking on the gouging of americans with these ridiculous drug prices, paid by nobody else to develop the role. and everybody who fights for lower drug prices, will fight for lower drug prices. taking on the cancer-causing drugs that are in our home products, taking on the industrial pollution that is in our frontline communities, taking on the land in our water, taking on the climate chaos, that is hurting us all across america and across the world. now our parents are our grandparents. they wage big battles and they had big victories. but we have had this decade of assault on our power to have up by people. and that is why, after we wage the 2020 election, when we have a president-owned law for someone, like cory booker, who is going to fight for the people. when we have a senate with a base 51 votes from people who want to fight for the people, the first thing we have to do, the very first thing is pass the floor and the people at the house has done it. the senate has done it. if mitch mcconnell can tear down our democracy by simple majority, we can restore it by simple majority. applause darym t. the fairly voting. they even had a commission in jury andrew. restore voting for those who have served the time for their crime. and thanks to floor, and for taking a big snap from the people to make that happen. not enough voter registration, same-day registration, paper ballots, polling protection, full disposal for every campaign dollar. and when we accomplish all that, we will have overwhelming power to do even more. and even more, how about this, with direct election of the president of the united states and america? applause the one i want to acknowledge is a racist relic. and mitch and t. richard davis, full of rotten timber as it should stand, overall, as we are placing for the system worthy of the democratic republic, the direct election by popular vote. partly voting came, said the human progress is neither automatic nor inevitable. the very part is the tireless exertions and passionate concerns of dedicated individuals. now i know the answer to the question i am about to ask. that is kind of like jury andrew you all. are you tireless? are you passionate? are you dedicated? let us go and march and fight and protest and vote and fight for other people, the way they selections. so we will be able to say that we took our democracy back to make this country, our community, our state, our country. so that every child has a full opportunity to drive no matter who they are or where they come from. god bless you all. thank you.