[congressional record volume 170, number 10 (thursday, january 18, 2024)] [house] [page h196] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] denouncing biden administration's open-border policies the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from new york (mr. molinaro) for 5 minutes. mr. molinaro. mr. speaker, president biden and the biden administration have surrendered the southern border, and the policies of this administration continue to make worse a national security crisis, a public safety crisis, and a humanitarian crisis of epic proportions. earlier this month, i joined my colleagues visiting, again, the southern border and saw firsthand that despite the heroic work of border patrol officers and despite every effort of the men and women serving in this nation, we have seen a total collapse in our border security system. there is unfettered fentanyl trafficking, a record 7 million illegal crossings, and strained communities and law enforcement throughout our southern states. this crisis, though, is not isolated only to border states. in fact, because of the failure of this administration, every state is a border state. because of the decisions made by mayors like the one in new york city, communities like ours continue to face growing challenges and a growing crisis. the communities i represent are strained to provide services to those who are homeless and housing insecure, those who are hungry and need help, and those who struggle with mental health and substance use disorder. yet, the president and the governor of the state of new york continue to allow mayor eric adams to circumvent the law and transport human souls to communities in upstate new york. deadly drug trafficking continues, with fentanyl and synthetic opioids pouring into our country and into communities, taking countless american lives. we have a means to end this crisis. the president has the tools and resources at his disposal today to confront the crisis in a way that recognizes a concern for national security and in a way that is compassionate. he chooses not to. the house has adopted h.r. 2, which would strengthen border security, enhance the asylum-seeking vetting process, and support and care for unaccompanied minors. yet, we see no progress from the senate or the president in embracing those policies. there is a solution to securing our border, and we must act now. the president needs to not only acknowledge the problem but work in a bipartisan fashion to recognize the tools at his disposal and to secure our border. {time} 1045 honoring the memory of senior sergeant christopher filli of the hudson police department mr. molinaro. mr. speaker, i rise today to honor the memory of senior sergeant christopher filli of the hudson city police department in columbia county in upstate new york and acknowledging with a heavy heart the untimely passing of a man who embodied the essence of community, duty, and passion. i know his family and knew chris to be a devoted husband, father, and son. he left us on january 12, 2024, while faithfully serving the community he loved. his journey began on january 19, 1973, and over the course of 22 years, he demonstrated exceptional commitment and selfless service to the hudson city police department and the hudson community. from his early days with the copake and philmont police departments to his final role as senior sergeant, chris' dedication was unwavering. he not only protected the city of hudson, but also found joy in a second career as the owner of chris filli & son tree service, incorporated. mr. speaker, we will always remember chris for being a family man, cherishing every moment spent with his wife, megan, and their children, creating a legacy of love and great devotion. we are heartbroken but stand united in honoring chris' memory. may he rest in peace, and may his legacy of dedication to his community and his family live on in our hearts. ____________________