i really appreciate it. this is an exciting time. i do not know. that is right. did you all see yesterday that our campaigns last quarter? we have more cash on hand than he does in the last three weeks of the race. we are going to bring it home. we have a record number of republicans turning out to vote this election cycle. how many of you all voted so far? are we doing it yet? when you go monday or next week, you go in person, take a friend or take five people with you. it will be a much shorter wait versus waiting till election day november. but this is the one to do it. we are neck and neck right now. it is tight, but we have got the money and resources in your help to get there on november 3rd. i am so excited. i am so excited to have senator graham here today here in the first congressional district. are you all watching amy coney barrett get confirmed? are we going to do it before november? hell yeah, we are going to do it. with senator graham's leadership here today, we are going to win south carolina's first congressional district. this is the man that is going to win re-election in november. i know that jamie harris and he raised 57 million. he spent 60 million. are we going to let him buy this seat? no, absolutely not. so here is the man, the myth, and the legend. senator lindsey graham. thank you. help me pay for the bus. how many of you watched the hearings? let me tell you, nancy, mace, and judge barrett represent the future of conservatism. judge barrett is giving hope to every young woman who suffers at times being conservative on a shamefully pro-life embracing her faith. so i want to thank president trump for nominating judge barrett. i want to thank the republicans on the committee for acting as a team. and i appreciate that this was not a kavanaugh hearing to my democratic colleagues. yeah. there you go. all right, next thursday at 1 of the clock, tune in. we are going to vote thursday, october 22nd, to get judge barrett out of the judiciary committee onto the floor of the senate. and she will be sitting in the supreme court before election day. election's battered drew without this senate majority. without president trump winning in 2016, they would be no judge barrett. now to remind people what is at stake here, diane feinstein will oppose judge barrett. she has been opposed to the hearings, and she dares say something nice to me. so if you are a democrat, apparently you cannot shake my hand or hug me. and that is a shame for the country. to the young people here, we need to do better, all of us. but i am here to tell you this is the most radical movement in the history of the united states, that that hate toward diane feinstein, can you imagine if those people are in charge of your country? they are in charge of the democratic party. can you imagine what it must be like to actually vote for judge barrett if you are a democrat? you wonder what joe biden will do? he will give into these people. the people that are trying to run diane feinstein out of politics for simple courtesy want to change our nation, and we are not going to let him. we are going to stand up to him here and everywhere else in the country. so we are making it easy to vote. i heard a lot about voting. everybody that is eligible, you have a right to vote, exercise that right. but it is okay, drew, to make sure the ballot has integrity. so i want to thank the state of south carolina, our leadership, for having early voting, to make it easy. come out, vote. and remember, it matters. the one thing i can tell you, if we can give four more years of president trump, everybody at the air base right across the street will be in good hands. donald trump has done more to rebuild the broken military than any time since ronald reagan. the men and women in uniform have a good commander in chief, and i want to keep it that way. we have order at the border, but we used to have chaos, right. we had the strongest accounting before the virus and we will get it back again. what the democrats plan, if they take over the house, the senate and the white house is to change this nation. they will not be nine members of the supreme court. there'll be as many as they need to make it liberal. they are not joking about this. the reason joe will not tell you where he is at, he is afraid to tell you. the public does not like this idea of expanding the court, but the radicals are going to insist upon it. the electoral college, this young man will study in school what the electoral college means. let me tell you what it means. it means that south carolina has a voice with it. without the electoral college, we have no voice when it comes to picking the president. it means that california and new york will pick the president. they are going to abolish the filibuster in the senate so it becomes the house. they are going to radically transform the tax code, the largest tax in spend agenda and the history of the nation. they are going to give free health care to your legals and decriminalize coming in to the country. half the world will be here in six months. so the reason we need you to vote early is it frees you up to help us close the deal, right? nancy, you have run a good campaign. this is a team sport. my opponent says nancy pelosi is his mentor. i say that nancy mace is nancy pelosi's worst nightmare. my opponent says that hillary clinton inspires him. she inspires me in a different way. i am inspired to make sure that the agenda she supports never sees the light of the day in the united states senate. this is not a personality contest. this is about the future of your country in our state, right? trump can be a handful, but he is got the big stuff right. 250 conservative judges in the last four years and we are not done yet. soon to be three supreme court justices. highly qualified, ready to do the job, understanding the difference between their job and my job. so i want to end with this. pray for judge barrett. pray for her family. god bless her for having the courage to step forward and to say, i am ready. judge barrett represents the best in america. she is the most qualified person i have ever met in my life for this job. she is set there for 40 hours without a note. she understands what she believes, who she is, and she is going to follow the law, not anything else folks. so as we vote on her, which we will, nancy, i want you to remember that when i cast my vote to put judge barrett on the supreme court, that elections have consequence. god bless you all. all right, go back to work.