and by the way, tim's incredible mother is right here in the front row. you know what they are doing that they got this big head. i was going to almost do a poll in the two of them, but we are not doing that. but lindsay is a true fighter for south carolina, loves you state. and as chairman of the senate judiciary committee, you know that, right? he is the chairman of the senate judiciary committee. so important. so important. senator graham has been leading the charge to help us confirm a record number of judges to uphold the constitution as well. and lindsay was amazing. you remember? for justice, brett kavanaugh. remember how badly he was. great job, lindsay. great job, man. thank you. senator scott is a leading superstar. he is a superstar. but he is a leader in lowering health care costs like nobody has done it. you know, people do not know, but in the last year, prescription drug prices came down for the first time in 51 years. and that was with no democrat health. if we had that help, we could lower it by 50 percent. but we will get that help. one of these days they are going to get smart. senator scott provides world-class care for our veterans. what he is done for our veterans is incredible. and bring in investment to distressed communities across our country through opportunities zones, including 135 right here in south carolina. and that is what it is. tim scott came to my office with an idea. he said opportunities zone. i said, tim, what the hell is that? what is it, right, tim? and he went through a whole big thing and i said, this maybe could work. and we tried it. it is an incredible success. and what he is done for this country is not incredible. it is incredible. lindsay will start with lindsay. say a few words, please. thank you. welcome to south carolina, mr. president. you know why you are going to win? you have been a damn good president. thank you for 200 conservative judges. thank you for justice cavanaugh and justice gorsik. thank you for rebuilding the military and killing the terrorists. thank you for the strongest economy in my lifetime. and thank you more than anything else for putting up with the never-ending bullshit you have to go through. all right. usa. usa. usa. if south carolina. i said, if south carolina is trump country, let me hear you speak. if you have benefited from the trump economy, let me hear you scream. one last thing. if you want for more years of president trump, let me hear you scream. well, that was quite a display, was not it?