we have been very blessed to have a wonderful senator in the state of wisconsin. her name is tammy baldwin. and she has been an advocate for a very important part of agriculture. and that is the promotion of public plant breeding, helping the land grant universities move forward with basically retaking over their space in producing seeds that are regionally adapted and that are open for public use. that has kind of diminished over the past few years. and she has helped us a lot by working in her place on the senate agricultural appropriations committee by putting language directing the usda to put more money into research in this important area. in addition, she is a wonderful place when i go to washington, d.c. to feel that i am walking into an office with a friendly face and a wonderful demeanor. and i also know that she works really hard. and if tammy is going to say that she is going to do something, she is going to get it done. so with that, i would like to have our senator from wisconsin, tammy baldwin, come up and give you a little address. so, well, good afternoon. what an honor it is to join you at the 27th annual moses conference. it is also an honor to have gotten to watch the proceedings. and i want to just add my words of gratitude to you, fay, for your remarkable work and the remarkable legacy that you are leaving. and i am going to take you at your word because i hope to come back again. i hope to see you here even in a different capacity. thank you. so, i just want to say that it is a deep honor to get the opportunity to represent a state with such a deep and enduring agricultural innovation tradition. in fact, our grown-in wisconsin economy, the sector contributes $88.3 billion in economic activity and provides about 413,000 jobs, employing almost one out of nine people in the state of wisconsin. the moses attendees here today include some of the pioneers of the organic and sustainable agriculture movements. these are folks who remember the time before the organic seal. the time before we invested in dedicated organic research, before organic was one of the fastest growing parts of the agricultural industry. those farmers and agricultural experts poured countless hours into and created the bold vision that there need to be viable markets for the organic industry, and also the growing organic agriculture could be a critical part of keeping families on the farm and keeping many small farms on our beautiful landscape, and keeping our rural communities and quality of life strong because of that. here today, we also have some of our newest farmers, and probably many people who are thinking about a life in organic agriculture. we want to hear from these new and aspiring farmers, hear about their challenges, hear about what helps them succeed so that we can continue to support this vibrant sector of our agriculture industry, and rural communities that need young farmers to keep them strong. organic is one of the fastest growing sectors of the agricultural economy nationwide, and over the past few decades, organic production has grown rapidly here in the badger state. with nearly 1200 certified organic farmers and handlers, wisconsin ranks second to only the state of california in the number of organic farms. but as you all know, we have work to do in order to move forward. we need to help future organic farmers get their start and ensure that organic farmers have the tools that they need to succeed. and it is why i have fought and will continue to fight for increased investments for the organic transitions program. this program supports the development and implementation of research in higher education and extension programs to improve the competitiveness of organic livestock and crop producers, and help offset the costs of transitioning to organic production for individual farmers. the dairy grazing apprenticeship program is also a wonderful wisconsin innovation, and i have advocated for this program, because it is based on a great coalition of dairy grazers across wisconsin, who have worked to make dairy grazing not only feasible, but also respected as a growing part of our dairy industry. now the apprenticeship program pairs young aspiring farmers with farmers nearing retirement to help with farm transitions and help the next generation get its start. i am also proud to have been a strong supporter of the farm bill's conservation programs, including the conservation stewardship program and the environmental quality incentive program. and the creation of better risk management tools, including crop insurance for organic crops. i have taken on these fights and been a voice for you in washington because i understand that in wisconsin farming is not just a part of the economy, it is a way of life that must be strengthened and protected. you represent an ethic of caring for our land and providing healthy food for our families and our neighbors. well, organic farmers do not use the same tools to respond to farming challenges that conventional farmers use, such as chemical pesticides and fertilizers and certain seeds. organic farmers are extremely innovative in finding ways to manage pests and crop issues and raise livestock in an ecologically sensitive way. what that means, of course, is that not all agricultural research is useful to organic producers. we need to increase investments in organic agriculture to help producers increase yields, improve disease resistance and deal with our changing climate. so i am pressing the usda to invest in publicly available plant and animal breeds that will provide more options for organic producers and respond to both the challenges that you face today and the growing markets that you cater to. in particular, i am fighting to ensure that these public research investments are delivering research results that can be directly used by farmers to meet the challenges that you face now with solutions that you can use now. in wisconsin, we are lucky to have innovators in sustainable agricultural systems. for many years, they have pioneered solutions to the challenges that face organic producers. i strongly support increased investments in sustainable agriculture research and extensions program because it provides funding to support this work, to address difficulties that new farmers face and help farmers innovate and share best practices. from sustainable agriculture systems and dynamic education for our beginning, farmers time and time again, moses has brought together those who carry on our state's history of farming with great pride. i am proud to be your partner in the united states senate as we continue to move together, to work together, to build a grown-in wisconsin economy. i know you are not all from wisconsin, but i have to say i am partial here and keep all of our rural communities growing and strong. i look forward to continuing our work together and i want to just again thank you so honestly and deeply for inviting me to join the conference today. i know there is only a few hours left, but please enjoy every second that remains. thank you.