to the flag of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands one nation under god, indivisible with liberty and justice for all. i am going to give you a round of applause. i am going to give you a round of applause. i am going to give you a round of applause. wow, what an incredible crowd. how is everybody doing today? we a little bit fired up. i see steel workers in the crowd. are we a little bit fired up? i would like to thank everybody, i am wisconsin's democratic ticket for being here today. it is an honor to be on the same ballot as them. i would also like to thank the marquette college democrats for hosting this and the uwm for the venue for this event. i am so glad we get the opportunity to talk to all of you today, especially the younger voters, about the opportunity that we have coming up in november. down the ticket, the choice is very clear. we can have elected officials that misrepresent who they are and what they stand for, or we can have honest, hardworking electives that will fight for everyday people for this great state. i mean on one hand you have scott walker. what is he running as? he is running as the education governor. but the first thing he did, i remember being a dad, was he gutted nearly a billion dollars from public education. and then you have tony hevers. tony... tony actually knows a little something about education. he is going to be a teacher. he is going to be our real education governor, and he is going to restore this state's education system to the world renowned status we want had. and let me touch briefly on leah vukmur. here you have a nurse who supports gutting pre-existing conditions for everybody. you know, i have cancer. that is a pre-existing condition. that hits pretty close to home. you know, but tammy baldwin, she is going to fight to protect those pre-existing conditions. she is going to improve our healthcare, not destroy it. we need to keep tammy exactly where she is. and a huge thank you to senator bernie sanders. bernie has supported our campaign since the beginning, which has honestly meant so much. we had a couple of events already, and i was thinking up to today, it is great having an event with bernie, but today we actually have two events, one here and then one down in kenosha. and i will never forget 2016 when he was running for president. i was working on a northwestern mutual tower downtown. i am at lunchtime. i got a phone call from his campaign, and they asked me if i would speak at his rally when he is running for president. and i am thinking, what kind of presidential candidate calls up a construction worker, eaten it out of his lunch box, to ask him to go speak at a rally? that really set him apart from other candidates for me. not only that, not only that, but his campaign staff wanted to know if there was a picket line. if we had some kind of job action going on, because bernie wanted to go walk a picket line, if workers here needed help. that tells you all you need to know about senator bernie sanders. and he continues every single day to be a part of a working people. both in his work every day as senator, fighting tirelessly for $15 an hour, and medicare for all, and in his support from my campaign, and energizing wisconsin voters to take back our state. and while i may have been active in wisconsin politics for a few years, now mainly protesting like act 10, and more recently for immigrants' rights, running for congress really was not something i was ever on my bucket list. but when paul ryan was trying to take away our healthcare, my fellow ironworkers and i were talking on the job site about actually doing something for a change. he wanted to repeal and replace healthcare for 23 million americans. we said, let us repeal and replace him. when i returned from my service in the army, i worked two full-time jobs, and i did not have health insurance. so when i was diagnosed with cancer, i had no way to cover the costs. the financial burden was insurmountable, and i had to declare bankruptcy because of my medical bills. i know that my story resonates with countless people because it is their story too. soon after, i started an apprenticeship as an ironworker. and i will work an iron, it is a tough job, but it was also that that would help me get out of debt, and that was my ticket to the middle class. it allowed me to provide for healthcare for my son. it gave us both good health insurance and allowed me entry into the middle class. but sadly, too many good-paying union jobs are being outsourced. right here in wisconsin, at home, and all across the country. that is why i am here. that is why i keep fighting. for all of us. with your help and the help from people all across this country, we were able to repeal paul ryan. but make no mistake, his hand-picked replacement is just as bad as he is. his hand-picked replacement is a corporate attorney who has made his money outsourcing good-paying wisconsin jobs. he is supported the tax scam, and he is not going to protect medicare and social security. bottom line, he is a corporate lawyer who does not know what it is like to fall on hard times. what it means to live in poverty, and how hard it is to make ends meet when his party keeps putting profits over people. now my opponent refers to me as radical randy. my 12-year-old son thinks that is kind of cool. you know, but all things being said, i do not think it is radical to demand that everybody has access to healthcare. i do not think it is radical to demand that we protect good-paying american jobs, and we start exporting cars, not jobs. and i do not think it is too radical to believe we have to protect our environment because our kids and their kids are depending on it. it is not radical to believe that we need to use our taxpayer money to give our kids better education, and how about paying public sector work is what they are worth. i definitely do not believe it is too radical that the people of the first congressional district expect more than what we have gotten for the past 20 years. we are all right! together, we repeal paul ryan, but i need every single one of you to help me replace him. i know this november is for us, the hardworking people of wisconsin, and now more than ever, it is important to stay involved and keep fighting. i want to thank you all so much for being here. just remember, after election day, there is not going to be any phone calls to call people for help. we need to win this november. next, i have a great privilege to introduce the next speaker, my friend mandela barnes. mandela was one of the few early endorsements that we endorsed each other, and it was easy. it was an easy thing to do. since being elected state representative, i remember seeing him beating the sun up at the crack of dawn to go stand up on behalf of walmart workers to make sure that they would get $15 an hour. it was a very cold day too. he was not there for any kind of a show. this man, he definitely walks the talk. and he continues to prove the strength of his character and leadership. from the first time i met mandela, i knew he would make a difference in our state. and he definitely has not let me down. with that, our next lieutenant governor, mandela barnes. so we have a thing, randy bryce. think about how privileged we are to have randy bryce right here in the state of wisconsin. it will be a wonderful day when we return government back to working people, where it belongs. right where it belongs. so i am mandela barnes and i am your democratic nominee for lieutenant governor. i am proud to be here to bring you one message. and that message that tony evers will be elected, the next governor of the state of wisconsin, on november 6th. and you do not have to look much further than rooms like this to know that people are frustrated and tired of eight years of divide and conquer under governor scott walker. unfortunately, people have not seen any wage increases. our environment has been disregarded. our schools have been defunded. that was then, this is now. and that is why we are running this race across the entire state. we are not just campaigning in every county. but we are making sure that we show up in every community. to make sure that people are heard. to make sure that the voices of people who have been forgotten who have been left behind by government will no longer be forgotten. and they will be heard in the evers barnes administration. so i say all this to say that i know people look at tony evers and myself and they look at those two young guys. just getting across the state, campaigning and having a great time doing facebook live videos. but it is so much more than that. and we know that this campaign will not just be about everything that governor walker has done wrong. we only have 15 days. it is just not enough to talk about all the things that are wrong. this campaign is about restoring hope and opportunity to everybody in this state. it is about making sure that we provide access to quality and affordable health care. it means that we take the medicaid expansion on the first day in office. it means that we work to create a badger care public option so that we can have health care for all for everybody in the state of wisconsin. and as randy said before me is a cancer survivor. tony evers is also a cancer survivor. he be cancer and he will be scott walker. and if i could just take a moment to go back to the revisit the two young guys statement. it is pretty funny. today we are going to have two guys with gray hair and glasses. they are going to get us all fired up and people feel the burn. we are going to feel the tone. we are going to feel the tone. and the tone feels like change. change is in the air for the state of wisconsin. also like to throw in the point that tony evers and our average age is 48 and a half years old. so it works out. but it has been such a fantastic time getting across talking to people because we want to make sure again that wisconsin is open for everyone. not just open for business regardless of how you identify, regardless of your immigration status regardless if you have a criminal record or not. you deserve a chance to get ahead in the state of wisconsin. but the only way that we create that wisconsin that is open for all is when we show up to vote. and i know that everybody in this room plans to vote. and this election is so important and that is why they are putting up so many hurdles, so many barriers to prevent people from voting. and that is why i say we are going to vote in spite of. we are going to vote because they do not want us to vote. and not only are we going to vote, we are going to take people to vote with us. we are going to make sure that not just our friends, our family members and our neighbors know about this election. we are going to make sure strangers know about this election. because we have to talk to the people that we do not know. we have to talk to the people that do not know us. we have to talk to the people who are the most impacted by governor walker's disastrous policies. and i can go on, i have talked about the need to expand health care and also to fully fund our schools. and governor walker, again, randy bryce talked about it. governor walker is no friend of public education. if you remember, we just cut $250 million from the uw system. at the same time they are talking about building new prisons. now we spend a billion and a half dollars to lock people up. we spend a billion and a half dollars to lock people up in the state of wisconsin. that is more than we spend on the entire uw system. this is a priority's mismatch. and we have to make wisconsin a state that prioritizes education not incarceration. we have to make wisconsin a state that makes higher education affordable and accessible for everyone. if you are dealing with student loan debt or you know that you will be dealing with student loan debt, you should be able to refinance those loans. we should be able to borrow money at the same rate that big banks get to borrow money in this country. and we have to protect our environment. that is why we have made a commitment to put wisconsin on track to be power 100% by renewable energy. and not only is it right for our environment, it is right for our economy. because wisconsin is lagging the nation. we trail behind our midwest partners. we trail behind most states and economic growth. and on top of all that we have one more concept. it is a little far out there. so sit with me for a second. tony and i, we think that we should probably get scientists back into the department of natural resources. because we all know that clean air and safe drinking water is a human right. and so i have given us the charge to go out there to make sure that we vote. we know how important it is. i said we vote because they do not want us to vote. and people will tell you about the fact that so many have lost their lives for the right for us to vote. but there are so many people who are dying for the right to vote. so not only do we need to vote because they do not want us to. we need to vote for someone who cannot vote. that means we need to vote for that person with a criminal record who has had their rights taken away. that means we need to vote for our undocumented brothers and sisters. that means we have to vote for the school children who want to live in america that is free from gun violence. now, we know that we cannot do this on our own. and on november 6th people will make a choice. the decision will be which direction do we want the state of wisconsin to go ahead in. i am choosing the path of opportunity. i hope that you all will choose that path with me. and we will go on this path together to make sure that we change the way that the state of wisconsin looks. that we make sure that wisconsin regardless of your zip code that you have a chance to get ahead. i am so honored to be on this path. but i am also honored to be joined by people who got on this path before me. people who have served as an inspiration. people who in spite of decided to go forward. people who were told know that there is no place for you in politics. people who did not see themselves represented in state government and federal government but decided to go on that path anyway. i am so honored to be represented by my member of congress. i think we all should be proud to be represented by congresswoman glamour. she is a trailblazer. she is a record breaker. and she is a different maker in the state of wisconsin. not only did congresswoman gwinn more make history, congresswoman gwinn more made a difference. and that is what is important. she fights for all of us. there is no stronger champion. i am so proud to call you. i am so proud to introduce you to the rest of the world. i am so proud to introduce all of you to her and you to all of you. i have problems finishing speeches. but we are going to make this thing work out. congresswoman gwinn more everybody. oh my goodness. well, they keep telling me to be strong. but it is just too hard. i am so proud to be represented by my member of congresswoman gwinn more. i am so proud to be represented by my member of congresswoman gwinn more. i am so proud to be represented by my member of congresswoman gwinn more. but it is just too hard to get along. i got the scott kevin walker blue. i want to tell you something. you have heard all the issues up here. i have known scott walker since 1990. when he first ran against me in the state assembly and lost. but you know how germs are. if you do not kill all the germs right away, they just double down and come back. and he came back and he became, i mean, he put in legislation. he put in legislation to make sure that we had private prisons, even put juveniles in the private prison. mandela, am i wrong about this? right. i mean, he had shared the same thing with the state. he put in legislation to make sure that we had private prisons, even put juveniles in the private prison. he had champagne celebrations for private prisons and juveniles in them, middle-eal people into prisons. i am just going to give you a little history here. i am not going to be long because i know you waiting for some headliners here. but i am just going to give you a little history. and then he went on. he became governor. he closed down. planned parenthood clinics for women. he cut homestead tax credits for the elderly. he cut tens of thousands of people out of health care. he is leading the charge and fighting against, including pre-existing conditions in part of normal health care. i could go on and on and on. lord, have mercy. they keep telling me to be strong. they keep telling me i am wrong. but i got the skippin, scott kevin walker blues. and nothing i can do about it. except i got a solution, you all. somebody who would cut education, it sounds to me like we need an educator in the state cap. somebody who gave us a $250 million deficit, the minute that he did not take that medicaid expansion, seems like we need somebody who is been in the classroom and know that 2 plus 2 equals 4. seems like we need somebody like that. ladies and gentlemen, young people, millennials, really, i want to talk to you for a second. it is really in your hands. it really is. and i know, listen, i am going to talk to you. because i know you all are mad at us. it is some of us boomers. yeah, come on, tell them the truth. how many of you all mad at us? you mad at us because we have left you with nothing but a mess. but guess what, you are the solution now. you are the biggest cohort of voters out there. and it is really in your hands. and no matter what our differences are, we can come together around a few things. now, some say evers, some say evers. but all of us say scott walker re-elected never. evers, evers, scott walker leave us. we all looking forward, up and down the ticket, vote for me while you all are there, okay? up and down the ticket. we are looking for people who are going to do with martin luther king. junior says they are going to do justice. and we have an outstanding candidate for governor. gonna be our next governor of the great state of wisconsin. tony evers, ladies and gentlemen. now, as you look at us, as you look at us, you see we have a lot in common. but we are going to look ever much the same on that great getting up morning of november 6th. and tony, can you tell them the similarity that is so obvious, it will be so obvious on that great getting up morning between me and you. we are both winning. we are both beat scott walker. good morning, everybody. i have been in this room several times as a member of the board of regents. we are as part of my job. and i have never seen a crowd like this. so after i get to point new board of regents members, i want all of you to come to that first meeting. it is outstanding to be here and thank you gwen, trailblazer, and just an honor to be in the stage with her. and mandela birens will be the greatest lieutenant governor, you bet you. so i had a debate with walker last week and i had the pleasure of asking him this question. so how is it feel to have like three of your most trusted advisors, four of them. yes, four of your most trusted advisors say that you are unfit to be governor. we are going to make that happen on november 6th. i am going to be the next governor of this state of wisconsin. and as mandela said, this campaign is all about wisconsin values. and let us just talk about education for a minute. scott walker took $800 million out of our education system, $250 million out of higher education system. making it, i just saw the other day, 15% fewer faculty at uwm, which is going to cause fewer courses, which is going to cause students to take longer to graduate. it is a downward spiral. we are going to change that going forward. we are going to fund education in the state of wisconsin period. also have to make sure that we understand that low wage walker has brought us low wages in the state of wisconsin. we are going to $15 an hour minimum. and we are going to give every middle class family in the state of wisconsin a 10% break on their income taxes. because those are the people that have been struggling all along under scott walker. you think about how our tax system works. think about that. scott walker has not funded public schools. what happens as a result? the people of wisconsin love their public schools. they go to referendum. they decided to raise their own taxes on themselves to support those public schools. that is a scott walker tax increase right there. and you know that our pot holes are now called scott holes. whether it is scott holes or whether it is people in northern wisconsin having a strip to asphalt off the gravel. that does not work here in the state. we have to change things going forward. we have to have a transportation plan that supports not only our roads, but also mass transit. and sooner or later we have to get trains running in this state. a little story about health care. scott walker, as you may remember, ran for president. he was not around much. but as a result of him running for president, he had to be against the affordable care act, and he is meant that he would not take the money from washington dc, the medicaid money. think about that. he took that money or took ran for president, spent $30 million running for president, got 0.5% of the vote. and then as a result, people in wisconsin have to pay more health insurance than they do in minnesota. our pre-existing conditions, protections, our out-of-the-window. his running for president caused people in wisconsin to suffer. we are going to change that, and we are going to take that medicaid money first day. i heard randy before talking about pre-existing conditions, and i have one myself. i am a cancer survivor, and i could not imagine what it would have been like fighting through that if i did not have health insurance. there is millions of people in the state of wisconsin, 2.4 million people that have pre-existing conditions. scott walker just today said, that is doubled down on that today. they are in federal court to get rid of the affordable care act, which would get rid of pre-existing conditions. on tv this morning, he doubled down. he said, it is absolutely the right thing to do. under my administration, we will always have those protections for pre-existing conditions. now the last thing i want to quickly talk about is criminal justice reform. state of wisconsin is one of the worst in the country, in some places worse than the world. if you look like me and you commit a crime, and that same exact crime was committed by a person of color, odds are that person is going to be in jail, and i am not. that is wrong. that is wrong. we have to be smart on crime, not dumb on crime. we can change this going forward. this is an issue. we spend more on corrections than we do in the university of wisconsin system. you think about that. we need to make sure that we have opportunities for people to be rehabilitated. it is cheaper, gets people back in the workforce, and back to their families. we cannot have people rotting in prison with nothing looking forward to happening in their lives. that is this wrong, and we are going to change this in the state of wisconsin. now, here's a deal. you all know this. when democrats vote, democrats win. mandela and i are chasing all over the state of wisconsin, talking to people, building relationships with people. that is what counts. i remember that from the classroom. the most important thing you do is build relationships with those kids. we have to build relationships with every voter. we cannot do it ourselves. it is about getting people out to vote, making sure you reach out to your friends and relatives. vote early. we are going to win this november. we need your help. we are going to do it. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. good morning. my name is sola littlejohn. i am a fast food worker and a leader in the fight for 15. thank you. thank you. i am extremely inspired to be here today. i am truly proud to be a participant in this rally. i am truly proud to be surrounded by so many positive people, including elected officials and candidates who support workers like me and you. i am almost speechless. thank you. i am definitely going to use this time and this opportunity to use my voice. i would like to start off by saying on behalf of the fight for 15 brothers and sisters that we truly appreciate seeing good pro-worker, pro-union politicians, we glad to see they exist and that we stand here with them today. thank you. less than three weeks ago, thousands of fast food workers across america went on strike to demand unions for all and a $15 living wage for all. and we had a great turnout of support from those politicians who were willing to stand with us and willing to risk a rest as well. and it is about standing for something better. it is about fighting for good jobs and equality in life, improved working conditions, a decent shot at a future for ourselves and our families. it does not make sense that we work for a billion dollar global corporations that pay wages so low workers like me are forced to rely on government assistance and can barely afford simple living necessities. and that is just not living to stop surviving. these corporations we work for need to be held accountable and we, well they have the power and the money to pay us better and let us organize and build the unions we so much desperately need. with the union, we would not have to demand a living wage. we would have healthcare and savings. we would have sick days and paid vacation days. the bottom line is we would be protected by unions. now, we have even seen in the mass agreement that workers have won a buckstile agreement for a $15 wage, floor and union rights. and we fast food workers are asking for the same to be done for fast food corporations all around the country. but we are not just asking this from greedy corporations. we are also asking this from self interest, anti-worker, anti-union politicians as well. we asked to be heard for what we failed they do not understand us nor do they really care. how many families in wisconsin are living in poverty while the rest of wisconsin is falling behind? the same, the same workers who are living in poverty and struggling like me to pay bills are the same ones who have the strongest voting power to elect candidates into office. two weeks from now, we will be casting our votes at these polls. we plan to show our political power on november 6th. and yes, we need elected officials who are about workers, who care about unions, who care about the state of the state and the people in the state. from now until election day, we will be cabinsing neighborhoods, communities, wisconsinites, we will be cabinsing communities and neighborhoods where wisconsinites have been left out of the voting process. 515 will do whatever it takes to win. yes. and if that means going on strike, knocking on doors, cabinsing, and encouraging people to register and vote, then that is just what we are going to do. of course, senator bernie sanders said no one in america, especially working for profitable corporations, should be living in poverty. and i think that is right. because it is 2018, and i honestly cannot think of a job that should not start at $15 an hour or more. it should not give you the right to unionize. and i will end by saying this, that we, the workers, need to be heard, and i will say this, that we, the workers, we may not run america, but we make america run. again, my name is sarah littlejohn, thank you. peter rickman, president of milwaukee, a.s. and house of county workers union. my name is peter rickman, and i am here for a political revolution. in 2016, bernie sanders demonstrated that political leadership in this country can rise because, not despite, but because it champions the demands of social movements, because it fights for working class people instead of cow-towing to billionaire class interests. bernie sanders popularized the notion that in the richest country, in the history of the world, every single working person deserves a living wage by right. not as a privilege, but a right here in this american nation. biggest economy in the world, we can pay everyone a living wage. we needed a political revolution to define that all workers deserve living wages and union rights. because the truth is, in america, the bus class has rigged the system. they have taken over our economy. they have busted our unions. they have destroyed our wage laws. it is why our paychecks are too damn small. corporate profits are too damn high. bernie said, how low we have had enough, and people are marching in this political revolution. it is time we unrigged this system. and it is a political revolution that is going to do it. i want to tell you sisters and brothers, this is not just an idea or a dream. it is a reality. two years ago, right here in milwaukee, right in walker's wisconsin, when the fight for 15 and a union and the political revolution came together. we were able to win the first agreement of its kind anywhere in the country, right here for 15 and a union, for thousands of workers, right here in downtown milwaukee. that is what a political revolution looks like. do not tell me we cannot win. we are winning right here. the single bomb working two jobs as a cook, the recent college grad who is bartending to pay off the student loan debt, the recent immigrant who is a hotel housekeeper. they are the ones who need this political revolution, and they are the very same people who know that for a political revolution to occur, we must make it. it is with our own two hands. and that is why they are the people who are building this fight for 15 and a union, not just talking about it, not just in their workplace, but like solos said, out in the streets and in the neighborhoods knocking on doors. to get folks out to vote on november 6th, to vote for living wages, to vote for union rights for everybody, to vote for a political revolution, to vote for an economy for the many not the few. we are going to mobilize hundreds of thousands of people. the margin of defeat, the margin of despair in 2016 was only 22,000 votes. we can get out 100,000, 200,000, more working class people who say it is time for a political revolution, it is time to unregister system, it is time to build this economy, it is time for us to rise. we are the ones who will do it, we will build this political revolution, we will make this road by walking ourselves, it is no one but us. now i want you, i do not have much time up here, i want you to just close your eyes and imagine here, just one moment, i want you to think about the night of november 6th, what it is going to be like, what will that story be on cnn, on msnbc, maybe even on fox news? and it am not going to be a blue way sisters and brothers, it is going to be a rising tide of political revolution. i want you to imagine what is the story going to be when right here in walker's wisconsin, where they made sport of busting our unions, where they cut our wages, simply to put more profits in the hands of the billionaire class, right here in wisconsin. the story will be, the political revolution took flight, it is sent to congress to stand with senator bernie sanders in the fight for 15 and a union for all, senator tammy baldwin, the story is going to be that the state that thrice elected, scott walker that put donald trump in the white house and sent in ron johnson is going to turn around, it is going to turn around by putting tony evers in our capital to deliver on 15 and a union for every single man and woman in this state who works for a living, the story will be, the turnaround of this country beginning right here in wisconsin, what happens in wisconsin does not stay in wisconsin. but it will not be, that story will not come to be on cnn or msmbc, sure as hell not on fox news unless each and every one of us takes up this mantle and we have a choice sisters and brothers vote on november 6th but do nothing more, do nothing and let the boss class continue to hold us down, let them keep their power. and good luck with all that, we will see where this economy goes, it am not going to be working for us, it will work for the few not the many, the other choice your sisters and brothers and if you are with me, i need you to get with me here today and get out into these streets. the other choice is that we go and make this political revolution ourselves with our hands and our feet so that on november 6th we win back our state and we do not stop there and we march and fight and win 15 and a union for all. and economy for the many not the few, that is a political revolution sisters and brothers, it is all of you, it is not who is up here, it is out there. now if you believe that we can win, i want you to put your hand up, stand up and be counted, if you believe in living wages for all workers, if you believe in unions, i want you to say it with me, i want you to repeat after me sisters and brothers, i believe that we win. i believe that we win, turn up, i believe that we win, i believe that we win. i believe that we win. i believe that we win. reject the andrews director from milwaukee, jake spence. thank you. good morning everybody, my name is jake spence, i am the regional organizing director here in milwaukee county for the democratic party coordinated campaign. i just want to thank all of you for being here today. i also want to say it really is incredible to see so many familiar and new faces out in the crowd, it is really great to have you all here. and i am so proud that we are all in this together to reelect senator tammy baldwin to the united states senate and to help elect all the other democrats up and down the ticket. now i was born here in milwaukee, born and raised and i have lived here nearly my whole life. my mom was a special education teacher here in milwaukee for over 30 years. and my father served on the school board for almost 15 years. so i love our city. and here in milwaukee what i love about it is that we help each other out and we help each other succeed. and that is exactly what senator tammy baldwin is all about. tammy is fighting to protect our health care, to lower costs. and she does right by wisconsin no matter what it takes and no matter what powerful special interests stand in the way. and it is exactly why those special interests have spent over $14 million just to try to beat her. now this election could come down to a couple thousand votes. and the work that we all do, it is going to be the difference between winning and losing for tammy and for all the other democrats. so that is why i am going to tell you that it is important to have those face-to-face conversations with your family, your friends, and your neighbors about the issues that they care about most. and make sure that they all know that this is absolutely vital. so if you have not already done so, please sign up for a shift. there are folks in the room with clipboards. they will be folks outside with clipboards. please take a minute, talk to them, and sign up for a shift to help out. not only is it fun and it is easy, but we also need your help as thousands of other wisconsinites across the state are helping to talk to voters here. so before i leave today, i also want to make sure that you all remember to vote. right? you know, we know that we cannot let the special interests silence our voices and the easiest way to make our voices heard and to speak out is by showing up at the polls. and the great thing is that you actually do not have to wait until november 6th to vote. you can vote today. right? so all you need to do is bring your photo id to a polling location. and you can find where and when to vote by going to www.tamibaldwin.com slash early vote and check out your polling location there. and if you are a resident of the city of milwaukee, you do not even have to do that. you can walk over to uwm's very own peck school of the arts and vote right after the rally today. so i just want to let you guys all know that tammy has had our backs for the last six years. and it is time for us to make sure that she gets reelected this year. so sign up to vote. sign up to volunteer. get out to vote. thanks again for being here today. so well done. so well done. so so please welcome the state center and president of all revolution need a turner. so i just want to know i got something to tell you now this is breaking news. only all that we love is on the line. that is all. and that is why not only this november is important but every november after this because only all that we love is on the line. i heard my brother before me a couple of speakers before me talk about how the system is rigged. i am going to a man that the system is rigged. it is rigged politically. it is rigged socially. it is rigged economically. it has been rigged on purpose. but just as it has been rigged on purpose we the people can unrigged on purpose milwaukee. are you with me? because only all that we love is on the line. and i want you to understand this see this is not just about electing great elected officials. i am a part of that equation congresswoman gwen moore i got to shout my sister out. but this really is about we the people it is about us as our indigenous sisters and brothers put it we must be willing to see seven generations beyond our sense. because only all that we love is on the line. or as one brother put it we must be willing to plant trees who shade we may never enjoy milwaukee only all that we love is on the line. and so we have some folks milwaukee and i am not talking about the folks who are here today but we do have some folks in elected office who once they got there they lost they have a love of minds. and so it is imperative it is important that we we us you us all of us are willing to put something on this. to make this world a better place. and so milwaukee only all that we love is on the line. so now you have heard the talk about raising the minimum wage i do not know about you but i do not know very many folks who say the following when i grow up i want to be poor. nobody wants to be poor. but we have a system that benefits the upper echelons at the expense of the rest of us and that is not right and we the people must change it on purpose only all that we love. it is on the line. and to my sisters. it is about us controlling all of this. but it is not just about that we care about our whole damn dollar let us say hold down dollar. we want to hold down dollar. it is about making sure that our communities are safe. it is about making sure that we have a criminal justice system that is just for all people black and brown and white and red and yellow. only all that we love is on the line. that is all. now i bring you word from our sisters and brothers in indiana with a senator and i were from michigan, from south carolina, from iowa, from north carolina. and guess what wisconsin they feel the same way that you do that we must continue to push forward to create the type of future that we want to see because only all that we love is on the line. that is all. so it is on us. so milwaukee titles are good. they real good. they get your phone calls return titles are good but purpose is better. and we need more purpose driven people from the local level all the way to the federal level who understand that the power that they hold belongs to the people it belongs to you and it belongs to you and it belongs to you. so three things milwaukee. just three. just three. i believe that the creator of this magnificent universe has given us two hands. one to reach forward and one to reach back lifting as we climb. we are our sisters and our brothers keep us. we are. and most importantly we cannot ask other folks to do more for us than we are willing to do for ourselves. as brother frederick douglass put it you might not get everything that you work for but you will indeed work for everything that you get in order for us to transcend and transform this nation. and it is up to us because only all that we love is on the line. that is all. so in the words. i want to say one of my heroes who sacrificed and put it all on the line. i want you to go with me in your mind and follow sister harriet tubman. she is important and informing this movement of humanity because even when she got her freedom she went back to saying some other folks how many of you are willing to go back and say somebody else. and she said these words. milwaukee i need them to get deep down into your soul into your heart. she said these words. she said if you hit a dog's barking. keep going. and if you see the torches in the woods keep going. if there is shouting after you keep going. if you want to taste the freedom do not ever stop keep going. so milwaukee. if we will not medicare for all we must. if we believe that education for all of our children from the womb to the tomb we must. and if we believe that the work of day people in this country deserve a good life we must. oh my god and if we want to transcend this country we must. we must. and if we want to keep going and thinking about keeping going to continue to go to move forward i could not think of a better person than the senator that you have here in this state senator tammy baldwin. she has shared her story. see health care for all for her is personal. and she has shared her story all across this state all across this country. health care sisters and brothers is personal. and she has continued to stand up for the working class people in this state and making a statement about how it is important to use the power that we have to lift. she is the one. and so she does understand that the mission that we all have is so how we can get over it. and the mission is so low we cannot get under. and the mission is so wide we cannot get around it. that is what you have in senator tammy baldwin. so if you believe in her leadership if you understand we must support her and continue to have her in that senate speaking show enough truth to power i want you to give it up for senator tammy baldwin. thank you all. thank you nina turner for that wonderful introduction. you look beautiful. it is great to be back here in milwaukee. we have heard from some incredible speakers so far who have talked about the stakes that wisconsinites face. wisconsin deserves leaders as governor and lieutenant governor who will put wisconsin families first. and those leaders are tony evers and mandela barnes. i know that together tony and mandela will fight for affordable health care fix our crumbling roads and fully fund education from early childhood through college. and i am so proud to be joined today by my friend senator bernie sanders. yeah. bernie is a fearless fighter for hard working families. and i could not ask for a better partner in the united states senate and standing up to the powerful special interests. whether it is fighting for affordable health care for all. whether it is standing up for workers and pensions. whether it is holding wall street and banks accountable. or pushing for college affordability and reforms and taking on student loan debt. bernie knows what the stakes are this november. now look washington is a mess. it is a total mess right now. from the cable news shout fest to the early morning tweet storms or what did he tweet this morning to the nasty attack ads. and when washington is not working, it means it is not working for wisconsin. for you, your families or your communities. and that is why i am working so hard to put wisconsin first. but i will tell you this. washington is working for some. washington is working pretty well for one group of folks. the powerful special interests. time and time again, they call the shots to keep the system literally rigged in their favor. and to think they have now got their bought and paid for a candidate in this election, my opponent, leah boothmeer. so let us just take health care, for example. time after time, my opponent has backed efforts to gut protections for wisconsinites with pre-existing health conditions. and frankly, if my opponent had been in the united states senate last year, we would have seen her be the deciding vote to take people's health care away. but that is not all. over her 16-year record as a politician in wisconsin, she has consistently stood with the big insurance companies. she even opposed a bill that required insurance coverage for oral chemotherapy. now, who does that? i was not sent to washington to take people's health care away. that is right. and i believe that every wisconsinite deserves affordable high quality health care. and this fight, many of you know, this fight is personal for me. when i was a child, i had a very serious childhood illness at age 9. i was in the hospital for three months. and my grandparents who raised me, found out that their insurance family insurance coverage did not cover a grandchild. you know, in the fine print, i was not a legal dependent. this happens throughout our nation. but you know, after i recovered, they said, let us fix this. let us get her insurance that we know will cover her. well, i will tell you, i was not a very attractive candidate for insurance after three months in the hospital because i had this label, child with a pre-existing health condition. you know, it is why i entered public service and why i fought so hard to make sure that no one is ever again denied coverage because of a pre-existing health condition. and i pushed, i pushed to make sure that young people could stay on their parents' health insurance until they are 26 years old. and now millions more young people have insurance coverage. you know, health care is on the ballot this year. and we cannot let my opponent and her special interest friends take our health care away from us. that is right. but let us also look at another issue. that tax plan that special corporate interest pushed through congress last year. you know, my opponent backed that plan where 83% of the benefits go to the top 1% of individuals and large multinational corporations on the corporate side. you know, it benefited companies like exxon and wells fargo and drug manufacturers like pfizer as if they were not already having massive enough profits. so you know, one company, one corporation, exxon mobile will get a bigger tax break in the first year of this tax plan than every wisconsin individual and family combined. it makes no sense. frankly, if that tax plan had of sent 83% of its benefits to hardworking families and middle class families, it would have gotten my vote. but instead, my opponent only wants to reward her corporate interest friends. she wants to pay for this new tax law. get this by putting social security and medicare and medicaid on the table. and that is the difference. that is the choice that voters face this year. my opponent has sold out to wisconsin and national corporate special interests. she does their bidding. meanwhile, i will stand up to anyone, whatever the cost to do right by wisconsin. and... but we have... we have a job to do. we cannot let my opponent and her special interests backers run roughshod over wisconsin. we need to rise up and speak out and demand that washington starts working for wisconsin. and i need you all. i need you all to be engaged in the remaining days of this fight. each and every one of you can and will make a difference. and it is going to take all of us. powerful special interests have sunk millions of dollars trying to defeat me here in wisconsin. over $14 million to date. but i have something that they do not. and that is all of you. that is all of you. so... we saw... we saw in the health care fight the impact that you can have. you own that win. and that is what it is going to take to win this election. it is up to all of us to speak out. it is up to all of us to stand up. and it is up to all of us to vote. you have no need to wait until november 6th to cast your vote. and if you live in milwaukee county, pull out your phones right now. and type in www.tammybaldwin.com slash early vote. and that is going to bring you to a site that tells you where you can early vote. and when you can early vote. and including the fact that one of those early vote sites is right across the street. which gives you no excuse not to love this rally and then go out and early vote. now look, this is so critically important. because while there are names of candidates on the ballot, there are also deeply personal issues on the ballot. health care is on the ballot. pensions are on the ballot. climate change is on the ballot. net neutrality is on the ballot. equality is on the ballot. and i am so grateful. i want to remind you again that, yeah, those special interests have millions of dollars, millions of millions of dollars. but you, you are the ones who are going to decide. i have the distinct honor of bringing you my friend and my colleague in the united states senate. please welcome senator bernie sanders. thank you. thank you. whoa. you know, if i were a republican looking out in this crowd, i would be very nervous. today we are here for some very serious business. and that serious business is re-electing my good friend, my colleague tammy baldwin back to the us senate. to tell scott walker, it is time for him to depart. and to elect tony evers as governor. to elect mandela bonds as lieutenant governor. to elect randy bryce as the congressman from the first congressional district. and to send my old friend, when more, back to congress for another term. now, let me give you a brief history of us politics in recent years. because it am not complicated. four years ago in the united states of america in our midterm elections, we had the lowest voter turnout since world war ii. all right. almost two out of three americans did not vote. and the koch brothers and the other billionaires spent an enormous amount of money. put money on tv running ugly ads against candidates like tammy and others. and people saying, it is a midterm election. i do not have to vote. and they stayed home. and working people stayed home. for income people stayed home. people of color stayed home. young people stayed home. not this time is exactly right. and people stayed home. and right wing republicans won sweeping victories all across this country. and the result is we now have right wing leadership in the house of representatives led by your very own paul ryan. you know paul. and in the senate by mitch mcconnell. and that is what happens when people do not vote. in this election 2018, we have learned our lesson. we are not going to have the lowest midterm voter turnout in history. we are going to have the highest voter turnout. and i want to say this is a wonderful turnout. i see people of all ages here. but i want to say a special word to the young people. i want to say to the young people, no offense to those of us who are older. the young generation in america today is the most progressive generation in the history of this country. your generation is the least sexist, the least racist, the least homophobic, the least bigoted generation in the history of america. and your generation cares deeply about the health of the planet and climate change. but all of that decency, all of that love, all of that concern does not mean anything if you do not come out to vote. and mock my words on this. if the younger generation, people on the 30 vote at the same level as the rest of the population, you will transform the united states of america. so what tammy and nina and everybody else, what we are asking of you, is not only to come out and vote, not only to do early voting, but do something else. and i know it may be a little bit uncomfortable, but we are living in uncomfortable times. and we got to do sometimes things that make us a little bit nervous. and that is what we have. i think we have well over 1,000 people here. it is a great turnout. and that means a thousand votes for tammy and the other great candidates. but if each and every one of you goes out of your way and starts talking to family members and co-workers and to your neighbors and you say, you know what? i know you do not usually vote, but this election is so very important. come on out with me. i will walk you to the polls. in fact, i will even cook dinner for you on election night. and if each of you do that, that 1,000 votes that i hear this afternoon suddenly becomes 4,000 votes. and let me say something about voting turnouts and democracy. and that is, you know, tammy has run for office and been around the wild and i have been around the wild. and this is what i honestly believe. and i come from montenegro, run for office and i have lost elections and i have won elections. but it has never, ever occurred to me to make it harder for people to vote to suppress the vote because they might vote against me. tammy and i have conservative friends and we debate the issues. so that is fine. that is american democracy. but what is not american democracy is to do what they are doing in georgia, to do what they are doing in north dakota. and to in fact do what they have done in this great state over the last 10 years and that it is making harder for people to vote. and i mean this seriously. okay, i have been in a million debates and in a million campaigns. and if candidates, if my republican friends out there do not have the guts to defend their ideas, if the only way they think they can win elections is by suppressing the vote and making it harder for people to vote, i say to them, get out of politics and get another job. thank you. no, no, no, no, it am not bernie, it is you. you are going to transform this state and you are going to transform america. and of course as you have heard me say a million times real change, not going to come from tammy, not going to come from me, it is going to come from you, it is going to come from grassroots america. now i am more than painfully aware that wisconsin in the general election voted for donald trump, i am small margin. but i have the strong feeling that a lot of people who voted for trump in 2016 did not know that he was a pathological liar, that he would say one thing and then do the very opposite. when trump ran for office, some of you may recall that he told the people of wisconsin in vermont in america that he was going to provide health care to everybody. you remember that? health care everybody is what he said, but when he became president, he helped lead the effort to repeal the affordable care act and throw 32 million americans off of the health care that they have. now i want you to think about just think for one second what it would have happened if by one vote tammy and i had not helped defeat that horrible proposal. think about your friends, think about your friends and family members who are dealing with cancer, dealing with heart disease, dealing with diabetes, who suddenly would have lost their lifeline and their insurance. and think about how much suffering and death would have occurred. so you got a president who told people of wisconsin, health care for everybody, but he did exactly the opposite. you have a candidate in donald trump when he ran for office, he said, what was right? he said, we are going to take on the pharmaceutical industry. we are going to take on the drug companies. two years have come and gone and drug prices today are soaring and higher than they have ever been. donald trump said he would take on the drug companies, but he lied. during his campaign, donald trump said i am a different type of republican. paul ryan actually, he mentioned, paul correctly wants the cut social security medicare and medicaid. not donald trump, i will not do that. and i say to the people of wisconsin who voted for trump, he lied to you because in his last budget, he proposed a trillion dollar cut to medicaid, 500 billion dollar cut to medicare and a 72 billion dollar cut to the social security disability fund. just a few weeks ago, and we do not have the time to catalog all of trump's lives, we would be here day and night, day and night. but just a week ago, trump gets in front of, i think it was 60 minutes and he says, you know what, there are differences of opinion about climate change. now there are not differences of opinion. the scientific community is virtually united in telling us that climate change is real. that it is caused by human activity, that it is already causing devastating harm in this country and around the world, and this is what they also said. they said, and that is the intergovernmental panel on climate change, and it is difficult to cut carbon emissions or this planet will suffer irreparable harm for our kids and our grandchildren. and in the white house, we have a president who is working hand in glove with the fossil fuel industry more concerned about their short-term profits than the future of our planet and the health of our children. during the presidential campaign, trump said, i am going to take on world street and i am going to take on the establishment, but trump ended up appointing more billionaires, more billionaires to his administration than any other country. and i am going to take on the president in the history of this country. you are not taking on the establishment when you appoint billionaires after billionaires and when you de-regulate many of the large banks on world street. you are not taking on the establishment, you are part of the billionaire establishment. you know, donald trump likes to present himself as a tough guy. he is a very tough guy when it comes to tearing babies out of the arms of their mothers on the southern border. but he is not such a tough guy when it comes to taking on putin. he is a tough guy when it comes to cutting health care for children not such a tough guy when it comes to the dictators in saudi arabia and their mother. he is a tough guy when it comes to mocking women who have been subjected to sexual assault, very tough guy, but not such a tough guy when it comes to dealing with dictators all across this world. and i want to say something about that. people in this room, people in this state, people in my state, fought and died to defend american democracy. people fought and died for people's right to vote for people's right to speak out for a free media. and we want a president of the united states to defend democracy and human rights around the world not to cuddle up with terrible dictators and murderers. and on a personal note, i want to thank the people of wisconsin because when i ran for president in 2016, you were there. and the importance of that victory here in wisconsin and in 21 of the states, the importance of gaining 13 million votes, the importance of winning more votes from younger people black and white and latino and asian american and native american. and the importance of all of that was that we showed the world that the time is now for dealing with a corrupt economic and political system. and that together the american people are prepared to stand up for economic, social, racial and environmental justice. and the result of all of that, the important result is that ideas that are just a few years ago seem radical and extreme. and we were attacked day and night by every editorial board, writer in america, and by the establishment, all of those so-called radical ideas are now strongly supported by the american people. thank you, wisconsin. three years ago, we said that in wisconsin over month in america, if you work 40 hours a week, you are not going to live in poverty. we are going to raise that minimum wage to a living wage, 15 bucks an hour. and guess what, all over america, cities and states, and by the way, amazon now paying 15 bucks an hour. and we said that it is absurd that in america, eight women are making 80 cents on the dollar compared to men, we are going to have pay equity, equal pay for equal work. and we said that in this moment in history, all of our young people and people who are not so young, have the right to get a higher education regardless of their income. and what we said, we said that if this country is going to do well economically in a competitive global economy, we are going to make public colleges and universities tuition free and lower student debt. and all across the country, you are seeing states and communities moving in that direction. everybody is entitled to a higher education if they have the ability and the desire. and i do not want to see hundreds of thousands of young people denied that opportunity. and we said, we said a few years ago, something that really speaks to what we must become as a nation. we said that in america, healthcare must be a human right, not a privilege. and we said that there is something wrong about a dysfunctional healthcare system in which 30 million people have no health insurance and many of you are underinsured. a system in which we pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. a system which enables us to be the only major country on earth, not the guarantee healthcare to all people. and what we said is this country must move to a medicare for all single payer program. and guess what? with tammy's support and with the support of a number of members of the senate, the last poll that i saw on that issue has 70% of the american people supporting medicare for all. and on and on it goes, many of those issues that we talked about are now kind of mainstream issues. and we are making real progress on that and we should all be proud of that. but when we talk about trump, i want to say one more point. and that is yes, tammy and i disagree with trump on his economic policies, on his climate change policies. but there is a deeper level that we have very, very strong offense to what he is doing. and that is the following. throughout the history of this country, all of you know that good people have put their lives on the line to fight against all forms of discrimination. from the days of the first settlers coming here, we all know the terrible things that were done to native americans. we all know about the abomination of slavery and racism and segregation. we know that a hundred years ago today, women in america did not have the right to vote. we know about all of the ugliness that was pushed on the glgbt community. we know about the religious bigotry, the prejudices against catholics and italians and irish and jews. we know all of that history. but we also know something else that over those hundreds of years, good people, brave people, put their lives on the line to understand that we are the people of the world. and that we are a common, you not humanity, that no matter where we were born, what the color of our skin is, what our sexual orientation may be, we are one people. and virtually every president in recent history has understood that his function was to bring people together. that is what you do when you are president of the united states. but now we have a president who, for cheap political reasons, thinks that he can win votes by dividing us up by getting one group of people to hate another group. and i say this from the bottom of my heart to donald trump. this country has struggled with discrimination and racism and sexism and homophobia for too long. mr. trump, we are not going backwards. we are going forwards. so brothers and sisters, right now we have got two weeks to an election. let us do it. let us tell trump and his friends, it is still trump and walker and all of these guys, that we want a government and an economy based on justice. we want a government and an economy that represents all of us and not the one percent. and we are going to begin the process of making that happen today and through tomorrow and the next day until november 6th. let us have a huge vote of turnout. thank you all very much. thank you. thank you.