and there she is, the winner of the democratic nomination. thank you. thank you. thank you. back it all of you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you all very, very much. thank you, billy shaheen. where did you just go? right there. i have to thank my family too, and i will tell you more about them in a little bit, but thank you, tom, and mom, and meg, and ben, and you got mary and joyce and liz up here too. they are all part of our family, so thank you. thanks to all of you for your hard work and dedication throughout this primary campaign. and thank you to the people of new hampshire for tonight's victory. but tonight is just the beginning of our efforts. working together over the next 56 days, we can and we will put our state on the right path. i spoke a few moments ago with jackie silly, and i congratulate her and bill kennedy for running great campaigns. right. i invite their supporters to join this campaign to move our state in the right direction for middle-class families. let me also take a minute to congratulate ovidla montagne on his primary victory tonight. we offer two very different visions for new hampshire, and i look forward to a serious debate on the issues. there is a clear choice in this election, and i think we will wait a minute till we figure out how to do that. that is right, we are saying it twice. there is a clear choice in this election. as governor, i will move new hampshire forward with an innovation plan that will help our businesses grow so that our families can succeed. as governor, i will maintain and build our competitive advantages as new hampshire is the best place in america to do business. and let me be very clear. i will veto an income or a sales tax. thank you. ovidla montagne, the self-proclaimed tea party favorite, will move our state backwards with divisive policies that hurt our economy, limit opportunity for middle-class families, and restrict individual freedoms. for our families and our state to thrive in the future, we must come together to make new hampshire an innovative job creating state with the best economy and best workforce in the nation. that is what my innovation plan does, and that is what i will do as governor. as senator, i worked with governor lynch to help businesses grow. we created the research and development tax credit to encourage businesses to invest in new hampshire. we established a job training fund that has helped nearly 14,000 workers at hundreds of companies upgrade their skills. and we created new hampshire working to make it easier for employers to hire new workers and to avoid layoffs. as governor, i will double the research and development tax credit to encourage more companies to invest in developing new products. and i will help sell new hampshire and its products across the nation and around the world. we will help provide our businesses with technical support that they need, including access to the research expertise of our public colleges and universities, because that is the new hampshire way. at a time, when college education is more important than ever, this legislature cut funding for higher education in half. forcing huge tuition increases on our middle class families. my opponent said tuition costs are not of the utmost concern to him. this is the tea party way. well, the cost of tuition matters to me. it matters. it matters. it matters to businesses that are depending on a well-educated workforce to succeed. and it certainly matters to families across new hampshire. my innovation plan begins restoring funding for our public colleges and universities in exchange for a freeze on tuition and more slots for new hampshire students. because, because, because that is the new hampshire way. this legislature cut state aid to local schools, even as it diverted millions of dollars in taxpayer money to private and religious schools. my opponent says he opposes universal kindergarten, because if the legislature provides kindergarten for every child, oh my goodness, what could come next? that is the tea party way. well, i will tell you what comes next if i become governor. public money going to public schools. right? it is a tough and better science and math standards so that new hampshire is building the homegrown workforce that our businesses need. folks, i worked with a lot of you to get kindergarten, and if i am governor, we are going to keep kindergarten. because, because that is the new hampshire way. this legislature's approach to the budget was to cut the tobacco tax while they cut higher education spending in half. the message they sent to our kids is smoke more, study less, because that is the tea party way. in the middle of a tough recession, i worked with governor lynch to balance the state budget. we made tough and innovative choices to make sure we funded our priorities, education, health care, and public safety. we streamed line programs, we closed buildings, and we left a surplus. as governor, that is right, you can clap for surpluses. that is a good thing. as governor, i will demonstrate that same sense of fiscal responsibility. we will make the tough choices so we can invest in our priorities, and i will veto an income or a sales tax, because that is the new hampshire way. this legislature has cut healthcare for thousands of new hampshire citizens. it even tried to repeal a 12-year-old law that requires insurance companies to cover birth control. that repeal would have raised healthcare costs for women across the state. now this legislature and my opponent have a plan for a state takeover of medicare, medicare for our seniors. it is a plan that could increase healthcare costs for our seniors by thousands of dollars a year. that is the tea party way. i have worked with democrats and republicans to end the ability of insurance companies to discriminate against workers, and to pass a law that let young people stay on their parents' health insurance till age 26. i am going to keep fighting to make sure that our citizens have the healthcare they need, and a price they and businesses can afford. and that starts. that starts with stopping any legislative takeover of medicare, because that is the new hampshire way. this legislature believes that live free or die means that it is wrong to ensure that oil companies actually deliver the oil that a consumer bought. that it is okay to charge consumers 300% interest on payday loans, that students can carry guns in their dorm rooms. under my opponent's version of live free or die, abortion would be illegal even for the victims of rape or incest, and women and their doctors would be treated as criminals. under my opponent's version of live free or die, creationism could be taught in our schools. and under my opponent's version, the state would be able to prevent loving couples from marrying. that is the tea party way. well, i believe live free or die means that workers should have the right to organize. all loving couples should have the right to marry. and that women should be able to make our own healthcare decisions. folks, that is live free or die free.