this journey that i am on began in 2001. ten years ago, i introduced the bremen. ten years ago, i said that it was a matter of simple justice in america, that if a child, an infant, was brought to the united states by their parents. if they have lived a good life and worked hard and achieved many things and want to stay in america and make it a greater nation, we have to work together to make that possible. that is why i introduced the dream act. and in the earliest days, when i introduced the dream act, the way she knew it, we would leave the halls and there would be young people waiting in the shadows outside. and they would say to us, we would like to speak to you for a moment. we would go off to the side and know what was around and say, i am one of those undocumented children. i do not know what my future will be. we are counting on you. and tears would float on their cheeks. and that was the inspiration for congressman griterus and myself. when it came not only to the dream act, but comprehensive immigration reform. and over the years, we gathered supporters from every quarter. people across the board said, we are with you. organized labor, the afl-cio said, we will stand with you. the presidents of universities and colleges across america said, we will be with you. we started expanding our coalition. beyond the hispanics who would be affected by that to so many others. the korean americans came to me, young people feeling the same way we do. people in the muslim community who are represented here today, and we thank the muslim community for being here today. let us give them a round of applause for our part of the party. and so the time came over the years when things changed. the students and young people came out of the shadows. and they started walking forward saying, we are going to tell america our story because we believe this is a just and fair country, and they will give us a chance. and i will tell you, as these students came forward, many of them would come to washington wearing caps and gowns. to let us know, they are graduates, and they want to be part of our nation's future. as we heard their stories and learned what they wanted to do for america, it inspired us to try even more. now, there were those people who said, do not call the dream act. you may not succeed. you may lose. but congressman gaterriss and congressman davis and i know that if you do not put people on the spot and tell them we want to know where you stand, we want to know how you will vote, then you just drift forever, accomplishing nothing. and so this last week, we called this measure for consideration in the united states senate. we worked hard on it. senator harry reid, who is the majority leader. i am only his assistant. i must be fourth most part of the world. i am his assistant, but we worked to bring this up. and you saw the roll call. when the roll call came in, we had 57 democrats voting for the dream act and not one republican. not one republican with joyous and moving forward on the dream act. i will tell you that one of the republican congressman in this state, congressman mark kirk, said he is undecided about the dream act. undecided about this issue of justice. undecided about an opportunity for young people across america to make this a better and stronger nation, serving us in the military, going to college and becoming our doctors and engineers, our teachers and our lawyers, our business people in the future. undecided? well, i can tell you about a battle we fought a few years back. it was a battle in the united states house of representatives, and you remember well. it was the sensen brenner amendment. do you remember that? sensen brenner amendment. let me tell you what it said. it said, if you gave a helping hand assistance to an undocumented person, you would be guilty of a felony. guilty of a felony. and i went to the floor of the senate and congressman gaterrace in the house, and we said, what about our friends? it places like most mohenis and axiom, who bring in women who have been battered and abused with their children and give them protection. if they did that and the woman was undocumented, would they be charged with a felony? and under the sensen brenner amendment, the answer is yes. they would have been charged with a crime for helping someone in distress. sadly, congressman mark kirk voted for the sensen brenner amendment. he was not undecided when it came to the sensen brenner amendment. and my friends, that is why i come to you today. this election is a strange election. because when you vote in november for the united states senator, you will be voting for two united states senators in illinois. one who will serve from the election day until january, when the new term starts, and the other who takes up in january. i will tell you this. if you vote for alexi janoules to serve in the united states senate, he will be there after november, when his vote will be critically needed to pass the dream act. that is why we need to make sure... the game of speech on the floor after we lost this vote of the dream act. and i was sad and i was angry at what had happened. i looked up in the gallery and they saw all these young people, tears streaming down their faces, not knowing what their future would be. and i thought to myself, you would let them down. and i went to a rally the next day and they said, you did not let us down. we now know that we have to double our efforts. we have to work harder. we have to reach out and bring those in, students who are in america, legally, students who are here, citizens, who will join us in this effort, and they will. we are going to make this an effort that starts with these young people and builds, not only to pass the dream act, but to pass comprehensive immigration reform once and for all. america needs it. the strength of this nation is its diversity. the strength of this nation is that people from all over the world have come together in this place called america and said, we can build an american family, we can build an american future together. we come here on many different boats, but we are all in the same boat today. we are in the same boat called america and we are going to move forward. we are forward giving every family a chance to make this a better nation. i beg you, in this election, count those candidates who will stand by us. every boat counts, losing one boat can make a difference. and that is why i tell you. when it comes to my colleague in the united states senate, make sure that person is a lexi janulius. he is a one who stands by us and talks to these important organizations for us. thank you all very much and it is great to be with you.