 I'm going to start with you, Ms. Franks. I believe you said the government has the right to participate in expressing its viewpoint. Is that what you said? Yes. Okay. I don't respectfully, Ms. Franks, I don't think that's what we're really talking about here today. We're not talking about the public. I don't think that's what we're talking about here today. I don't think that's what we're talking about here today. We're not talking about the government expressing its viewpoints. What we're really talking about is when the government pays and uses taxpayer dollars to fund these entities that we're talking about here today that actually discredit some of these news sites and drives away their advertisers. Do you think that's fair as well? What is fair as for the government to be able to fund projects and organizations that do certain things with those funds that may include competing in the marketplace of ideas and they may be winning in the marketplace of ideas. But the government is not making those choices. And when certain news outlets lose in the marketplace of ideas they may want to blame the government for that, but maybe they're just losers. So, okay, Ms. Franks, do you think... It's actually Dr. Franks. Ms. What's up? It's actually Dr. Franks. Okay, Dr. Franks. Sorry. Ms. Yonis here said that when she was looking at these entities and the organizations that they had blacklisted, every single one of them was a conservative leaning organization. Do you think that's fair as well? Is that okay? Dr. Franks. It was a different name, so I wasn't sure you were talking to me. Yeah, I'm still talking to you. I'm still looking at you. I'm still talking to you. Would you repeat the question for me? Yeah, you seem to have a problem paying attention to the questions being asked of you today. I'll repeat it for you again. Do you think that it's okay that these entities that are blacklisting companies, all of the companies on the list that are blacklisted are conservative outlets? Do I think that it is okay for a company, for a nonprofit organization to develop tools that offer rankings? In other words, offers speech of criticism, critical speech about certain businesses? Yes, I think that's okay because that is protected first in the minute activity. So you think it's okay for the federal government to be using our tax dollars to basically, through a proxy, blacklist can one side of the aisle. You think that's okay? I do not because that is not what is happening. Really? How so? Then why are all the companies on the list, the blacklist, conservative groups? I think that's something that conservatives would need to answer. No, I think that's something you need to answer. I have to answer it in any way. Because we're talking about censorship here, and there's only one group of people being censored. No one is being censored. Misunis here admitted that she's not even a Republican. She leans left. Yet she's telling us that all of the companies on the blacklist are conservative groups. How do you square that, doctor? I don't have to square that because, as I said, the folks... I know because you don't have to make any sense. Do you need to answer the question? Yeah, go ahead. The first amendment has certain principles and certain rules. People may not like them. People may disagree with them. People may not like the fact that someone out there may say conservatives are all bad, or liberals are all bad. The correct response to not liking that is to engage in your own speech, as is often happening here. It is not to say, oh, this is censorship or being a silence. It's simply to say, we disagree with what's being said here. Try to compete, and if you are good enough, maybe you'll win. Misunis, what do you have to say about what Dr. Frank Sheiss said? First of all, I want to be clear that this wasn't just about NewsGuard and GDI. The government was funding hundreds, at least 300 tools and technologies that were designed to censor speech. Some of them weren't even pretending to censor foreign disinformation. Quote disinformation, of course, that's a subjective term. They were hosting COVID disinformation challenges where they were giving grants to companies who showed that they were the best at censoring COVID disinformation. COVID is not really a national security or foreign topic, even if it had some tinges of that. This was about the government using its authority. The government can't use its authority, can't use its power, and can't use its money. In order to censor views, it doesn't like. The government has a right to express its own views, but not to use those views to censor. That's where it stops. And the court expressed that in Vulow recently, actually. Mr. Wangart, I'm going to allow you to comment on this exchange. I just say briefly, we've heard a robust defense of the government's purported right to speak, which as we've established really looks like a right to censor. And the censors, portrayed as the victims here, but American speech on mass has been censored by the censorship industrial complex on a slew of issues that expressly reflect protected political speech. And if a stop isn't put to it, we're going to lose this right in Toto. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will back. I'm used back and I recognize your name.