[congressional record volume 163, number 81 (wednesday, may 10, 2017)] [senate] [pages s2864-s2865] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] unanimous consent request--authority for committee to meet mr. hoeven. mr. president, i have a request for the indians affairs committee to meet today at 2:30 p.m. first, we have a markup in the indian affairs committee. the two bills we are marking up are democrat-sponsored bills. the first one is senator tester's bill, from the state of montana, which would provide support for native languages. i guess the summary is that it would support the education of indian children. i believe it relates to native languages in that educational capacity. so that is one of the bills, senator tester's bill. the other bill we are marking up is senator tim kaine's bill, also a democrat-sponsored bill. the short narrative i have is this: to extend federal recognition to the chickahominy indian tribe, the chicahominy indian tribe-eastern division, the upper mattaponi tribe, the rappahonnock tribe, the monacan indian nation, and the nansemond indian tribe. the reason that is significant, that is something that both senator kaine and senator warner--both senators from virginia--have been working on for some time. the reason it is timely is that they have pocahontas's birthday celebration coming up, which i think is going to be a large celebration in the commonwealth of virginia. they were hoping to have these tribes recognized before this birthday celebration for pocahontas. it is a timely issue. obviously, we cannot advance the bill to the senate floor unless we mark it up. at the request of those two democratic senators from the commonwealth of virginia, we are scheduled to mark up those bills and get them to the floor and try to do it in a timely way because of the celebration they are trying to get prepared for. everybody knows the story of pocahontas and why that would be a big celebration and certainly a big deal in the commonwealth of virginia. again, as we debate this on the senate floor, i think senator daines made some strong points, and i would certainly appeal to our colleagues across the aisle to consider what i just described as far as those markups. in addition to those markups, we also have a hearing on several bills. the first one is a mccain bill, and it is to amend the protect act to make indian tribes eligible for amber alert grants. everybody knows what the amber alert program is and how important that program is to protect our young people when they get abducted. the reason senator mccain, from arizona, is bringing this bill forward is because there was an abduction in arizona, and the amber alert went out late. i [[page s2865]] think the amber alert went out a day late. senator mccain has this protect act so we can make sure the amber alert is working in indian country, and you certainly can understand how important it is that we do that. we have to have a hearing on the bill again so we can advance the bill to the senate floor for consideration. the final bill that we would have a hearing on in committee, if we are allowed to meet, is a murkowski bill, senator murkowski from alaska. it would provide the conveyance of certain property in this state. you have to realize that the witnesses--and i think certainly the good senator from hawaii will appreciate this--had to come here from alaska, which is quite a lengthy trip. when the senator travels back home to hawaii, that is a long trip. it is certainly a beautiful place but a long trip to get there. of course, it is not inexpensive to travel from alaska to washington, dc. those witnesses will be out their costs to come here if we are not able to have the hearing, and we would have to reschedule it. that certainly creates a cost burden for them, which is certainly unfair and not what they would want to have had happen on the part of their government. i am putting that in human terms. again, we are talking about two democratic bills, and we are talking about two republican bills. we are talking about constituents who have traveled a long way to come here to have the hearing and the markup. again, these are issues we should be able to work on in a bipartisan way. i would certainly ask for that consideration. at this point, i ask for unanimous consent that our committee be allowed to meet. the presiding officer. is there objection? the senator from hawaii. ms. hirono. mr. president, reserving the right to object, of course we acknowledge the importance of the matters raised by my colleague from north dakota and, representing my state, the state of hawaii, yes, there is support for education of native people, of native children, which i hope will include native hawaiian children. that is important as well as recognizing various indian tribes and the other matters that were raised by my friend from north dakota. however, as i mentioned, these are not business-as-usual times. the untoward firing of the fbi director, who was conducting an ongoing investigation into russian attempts to interfere with our democracy and the trump team's ties to those attempts, should be a matter of national concern, should be a matter of concern to every single member of the senate. this is not a republican or a democratic concern. this is a threat to our democracy. we know russia did this. we know we need to get to the bottom of this. we need to get to the bottom of the trump team's ties to these efforts, and this thinly veiled attempt by president trump to derail or disrupt these investigations cannot be sustained or supported. we continue to ask for a bipartisan call for a special prosecutor who will conduct an impartial, thorough investigation, untainted by political considerations into the russia-trump matter. therefore, mr. president, i object. the presiding officer. objection is heard. the senator from minnesota.