[Congressional Record Volume 169, Number 144 (Thursday, September 7, 2023)]
[Senate]
[Pages S4254-S4256]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Unanimous Consent Request--S. 2738
Mr. VANCE. Mr. President, all of us have lived through the failed
experiment of mass mandatory masking. Today, I want to ensure that we
do not subject the American people to this tyranny again for the sake
of nothing.
We have recently seen a seasonal uptick of COVID cases across the
country. This is not something to worry about. I don't like this fact
that COVID is here to stay. Seasonal upticks in a respiratory virus are
exactly to be expected. They shouldn't cause panic from our leadership
or from our country, and they shouldn't cause us to reimpose a policy
that has failed time and time again.
Many are now calling to bring back mask mandates and regulate social
gatherings. I have heard some of my friends on the opposite side of the
aisle saying that no one is trying to do this, but let's just recapture
and summarize the last couple of weeks in August. Lionsgate studios
asked its employees to wear masks at their filming facility. Last week,
Kaiser Permanente reimposed a requirement of staff and visitors to wear
masks at its Santa Rosa, CA, facility. Schools such as Morris Brown
College in Atlanta, and even local public schools here in the DC area,
have reimposed mask mandates.
Now, it is not just that masks--according to randomized control
studies--do no good; it is that they could actively cause harm. We know
a generation of school children have suffered significant speech and
developmental disabilities because this country panicked instead of
using its brain and forced toddlers and small children to wear masks.
We cannot return to the failed policies of the COVID pandemic.
I am not mad that we screwed up. I made mistakes. Many people in this
body made mistakes. What I do think that we should avoid is repeating
the mistakes in 2023. Let's learn from the mistakes that we made
instead of just doubling down on them.
This policy does not set anything for an unlimited period of time. It
says that for the next 15 months, the government can't force you to
wear a mask on planes, on public transit, or in public schools.
Taxpayer dollars cannot be used to force and enforce a mandate against
our people. It is not setting a policy that we cannot deal with
pandemics in the future. If something else comes--God forbid--then let
this body deal with it at that time.
But now, let's heed the message from the American people, and let's
learn the lessons of the past couple of years. Mandatory masking was a
failure. It had costs for very little benefit, and we shouldn't repeat
it.
Mr. President, as in legislative session, I ask unanimous consent
that the
[[Page S4255]]
Senate proceed to the immediate consideration of S. 2738, the Freedom
to Breathe Act, which is at the desk; further, that the bill be
considered read a third time and passed; and the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the table with no intervening action
or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, reserving the right to object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Massachusetts.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, this bill would undermine the ability of
States, cities, and towns across this country to make decisions about
what is best for their communities.
It would silence and hamstring public health experts who have guided
our Nation out of the darkest days of a pandemic that has killed
1,139,000 people in our country in 3 years. Let me repeat that.
This disease has killed 1,139,000 people already, and doctors and
experts are saying that COVID is coming back. It is on the rise, once
again. This provision would violate a long-held belief in the
Republican Party that States and localities should not be told what to
do by a Federal Government removed from the realities that they are
seeing on the ground in their neighborhoods.
This bill is little more than an attempt by Republicans to dismantle
a public health infrastructure that had to be built in order to deal
with this greatest of pandemics since 1918. What public health experts
and the medical professionals are talking about is an upcoming COVID
and flu and RSV season and preparing for it.
These healthcare heroes are the same ones who risked their lives to
save lives, and we should continue to protect that right to make
decisions on the health of their patients, of their communities, and
that is what locally focused healthcare is all about.
Here is what we do know. Last year, the combined forces of this
``tripledemic'' of flu, RSV, and COVID strained healthcare centers to a
breaking point. Healthcare providers tried to keep up as emergency
departments overflowed with sick children, adults, and seniors. And
people are still getting sick.
This year, healthcare providers, health centers, public health
departments, transportation workers, and school districts are, once
again, preparing to protect students and seniors and disabled and
immunocompromised people all across our country. Millions of Americans
will be doing what we can to protect ourselves and our loved ones, and
our communities must be able to take steps to save lives and keep
people from getting sick or getting sicker, including the tools of
vaccines and masks.
But the only thing that the Republicans seem willing to mask is their
antipathy for making healthcare affordable and acceptable for millions
of Americans. Republicans already fought this year to throw people off
of Medicare and their health coverage. Not a single Republican voted to
make insulin and other medications more affordable for seniors.
Republicans have blocked legislation to protect the right of
individuals to make healthcare decisions with their doctors. It makes
no sense to put limits on how communities and individuals can protect
themselves. This bill is a red herring. It is a false debate. We should
have an aquarium down in the well of the Senate to capture all of the
red herrings that are being introduced into this public health debate.
It is a distraction; it is misleading; and it is meant to deflect from
what the GOP really stands for right now, ``Gimmicks Over People.''
Republicans have to understand that we have to provide the options
for our healthcare heroes to save lives. They will make us less safe
because they will be tying the hands of healthcare professionals in
order to implement policies that protect against an addition to the
1.139 million people who have already died.
You argue that this bill is about freedom, but it is not. Freedom is
parents and students knowing their school can take every step possible
to keep them from getting sick or taking home an illness that could
hurt their siblings, their parents, or their grandparents.
Freedom is workers who know their workplace on a plane, train, or
even in a classroom is safe. Freedom is knowing that when people
travel, either on their way to work by way of public transportation or
across the country to visit family for the holidays, they will know
that every safety measure is available to keep them and their families
safe.
We must protect the freedom for communities to have every public
health tool available, if it is needed in the opinion of the public
health officials in that community, in that State. They should be the
ones making the decision, at the local level, looking at the dangers to
their population.
Again, these numbers are historic: 1,139,000 people have already
died, and there is more coming. And if in the opinion of public health
officials, strategies can be adopted using masks that reduce the
likelihood that more will die, we should give them that freedom to make
those decisions.
With that, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The objection is heard.
Mr. VANCE. Mr. President, let me offer a couple of thoughts in
response.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Ohio.
Mr. VANCE. Mr. President, I know we are on a short timeline, but let
me just offer a couple of points in response, and then I will let this
body go on with its business.
No. 1, Senator Markey mentioned the tragic number of Americans, over
1 million, who lost their lives due to COVID. And I agree that it is a
tragedy, and I wish that we hadn't lost them. But we lost them in spite
of some of the most aggressive masking policies in the world. If
mandatory masking were going to save our citizens, it would have
already done so. That is the first point.
The second point is that this legislation doesn't prevent any of our
citizens from wearing masks. If you would like to wear a mask, of
course, you have the right to do so, but the Senator talked about
freedom. What I would like is for the freedom of a school child to not
be thrown out of the classroom because he doesn't want to wear a mask.
I would like the freedom of airline passengers to be able to go and
visit their families and not be thrown off an airplane because they
refuse to wear a mask. Freedom is fundamentally about respecting that
you might have a different view than I do, respecting that, accepting
it, and not using government mandates to force our fellow citizens to
do exactly what we want them to do but to let us all figure this out
together.
The final point that I will make here is I heard some pretty alarming
rhetoric from my friend on the other side of the aisle. We are about to
have some serious respiratory problems. We always do in the fall, and
maybe it will be worse this fall and this winter than before. But I
think that what our children most of all need--and I am the father of
three kids under the age of 7--they need us to not be ``Chicken
Little'' about every single respiratory pandemic and problem that
confronts this country.
We are going to have people who get sick from viruses. It has always
been thus, and the way to respond to it is with calmness, resolve, and
strategic thinking, not by pretending the world is ending because what
has always happened is going to happen once again.
We cannot repeat the anxiety, the stress, and the nonstop panic of
the last couple of years. That is what this legislation is about. End
the mandates; end the panic; and let's get back to some common sense.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Wyoming.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I come to support Senator Vance's
Freedom to Breathe Act. I believe this bill is a vital step to protect
the individual's rights as well as preserving State's rights. And in
the interest of time, I would just point out, too, that we have a
number of Republican Senators on the floor standing with Senator Vance
in support of this legislation. I see Senator Cruz here from Texas,
Senator Mike Braun from Indiana, Ted Budd from North Carolina, Katie
Britt from Alabama, and Eric Schmitt of Missouri. I appreciate all of
them being here to support and stand with Senator Vance on this
important piece of legislation.
I yield the floor.
[[Page S4256]]
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Texas.
Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be allowed to
speak for up to 7 minutes and Senator Markey for up to 5 minutes prior
to the scheduled rollcall vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.