[Congressional Record Volume 171, Number 159 (Monday, September 29, 2025)]
[Senate]
[Page S6814]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Unanimous Consent Request--S. 2851
However, Mr. President, in understanding that my colleague has made
his arguments in believing that my legislation goes too far, I also
have a narrower piece of legislation tailored specifically to three
groups of people who face elevated risks of violence, doxing, and
stalking that is similar to Members of Congress and our staffs.
This bill is also modeled on the bipartisan Commerce Committee bill
and protects Members of Congress and staff. Additionally, it protects
State and local officials, including State judges who were left out of
an earlier judicial privacy bill. The threat to State and local
officials has not gone away. Earlier this month, a gunman fired a
bullet directly into the home of a State senator in Illinois. This
legislation also protects survivors of sexual assault and domestic
violence who deserve the strongest possible safeguards against being
stalked or harmed.
Even if a Member objects to protecting all Americans, surely, the
people doing our jobs in State capitals across the country and those
who have suffered assault and violence deserve the same protection as
the Presiding Officer and I.
Therefore, as in legislative session and notwithstanding rule XXII, I
ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs be discharged from further consideration of S.
2851 and the Senate proceed to its immediate consideration; that the
bill be considered read a third time and passed; and that the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
The Senator from Texas.
Mr. CRUZ. Reserving the right to object, for the same reasons I
articulated a minute ago. I am quite sympathetic to the concerns raised
by the Senator from Oregon. He is right. There are threats against
State and local officials. Those threats are serious, and they deserve
to be dealt with seriously.
In my view, violence is never acceptable, and that is whether I agree
with you politically or I disagree with you politically. We should
debate civilly, with respect, with decency, and violence should never
be the answer.
So just as I did with his previous amendment, I extend my offer in
the hearing we convene to consider the issue of State and local
officials to consider how best to expand the protection. I am
interested in expanding the protection to as wide a universe as is
feasible, as is practicable, but that answer is not yet worked out.
State and local officials is a universe that comprises tens of
thousands, if not more people than that. We should have hearings and
consider the effect before passing legislation that, if the bill got
expanded, would engender an objection to this bill and kill the entire
bill altogether.
Because I don't want this body to do nothing and to fail to take a
reasonable, commonsense step to protect the security of Members of
Congress and their staffs and because I very much want to pass Senator
Klobuchar's legislation--which I might note, Senator Klobuchar is a
Democrat; I am a Republican. This is bipartisan legislation. Because
this amendment at that time, I believe, would imperil the Senate doing
anything right now, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The objection is heard.
The Senator from Oregon.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I want to tell my colleague from Texas I
look forward to the hearings on legislation that would ensure that all
Americans have these protections because, as you and I have talked
about, I think it is critically important there not be a double
standard in America. I thank my colleague for the offer of the
hearings.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Senator from Michigan.