[Congressional Record Volume 167, Number 157 (Monday, September 13, 2021)]
[Senate]
[Pages S6450-S6451]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Unanimous Consent Request--Executive Calendar
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the
Senate proceed to the consideration of Calendar No. 323, Marcela
Escobari to be Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for
International Development, and that the Senate vote on the nomination
without any intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there objection?
The Senator from Texas.
Mr. CRUZ. Madam President, reserving the right to be object, as I
described minutes ago, the Biden administration is in outright defiance
of Federal law. An overwhelming bipartisan majority of the Senate and
the House have passed tough sanctions on Russia--sanctions that work;
sanctions that shut down the Nord Stream 2 pipeline for a year. But
when President Biden came into office, he chose to override Federal law
and instead to give a multibillion-dollar gift to Vladimir Putin in
Russia. That decision is a generational geopolitical mistake. It harms
U.S. national security interests, it benefits Russia, and it hurts
Europe.
Moreover, my hold on these nominations, I have expressed to the
administration in writing and orally over a month ago. They have a path
to lifting the hold on the Treasury Department nominees and the career
State Department nominees simply by either enforcing sanctions under
CAATSA on Russia or overriding those sanctions and triggering a vote in
this body where Members of this body can register our views on whether
Joe Biden is correct in giving this multibillion-dollar gift to
Vladimir Putin that undermines our national security.
Accordingly, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objection is heard.
The Senator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, it is unfortunate that this last
nominee is objected to. This particular position--we are talking about
Haiti. We are talking about having an Assistant Administrator that can
help us restore the tragic situation in Haiti to a place in which
people can live and won't seek migration to the United States.
When we are talking about what is happening in the Western
Hemisphere, in Venezuela, where there is a huge humanitarian set of
refugees leaving; when we talk about what is happening
[[Page S6451]]
in Cuba with reference to the movements for democracy, this particular
position would be dealing with all of that.
I must say, I know that my colleague wants to say none of this would
have changed anything. That is not the case. I am not saying that the
ultimate result in Afghanistan would have changed, but certainly, when
we do not have people in key positions advocating for U.S. national
security and policy, it exacerbates the set of circumstances because we
don't have the wherewithal to do what is necessary. There are many
other key positions I will be coming to the Senate floor and
highlighting how that has a risk to national security.
Finally, I would just simply say CAATSA was violated by President
Trump when he exercised no sanctions on the same issue that my
colleague is concerned about. I happen to agree with him on the issue;
I disagree with him in the process in which he is pursuing it. But that
started with President Trump.
By the way, President Trump started with a surrender agreement to the
Taliban. He gave them everything, got nothing in return. He let them
have 5,000 prisoners, Taliban prisoners, who were returned to the
Taliban--that added to the fighting force--and got none of the
commitments that were necessary to deal with a negotiation or a peace
deal with the Afghan Government. He got nothing at all except a total
surrender and then dramatically reduced the troop levels at that time.
So there is a lot to talk about about Afghanistan, not only in the
immediate context but over what has happened over the last 20 years.
The Senate Foreign Relations Committee intends to do that extensive
review through a series of hearings.
Let's put history exactly where it belongs--in the right context.
I yield the floor.
____________________