2025 Los Angeles County Wildfire Resources
My thoughts are with all of those impacted by the wildfires in LA County, and the firefighters and first responders who are doing all they can to protect our communities.
Please heed warnings and evacuation orders from authorities.
Los Angeles County Emergency Website:
The
Los Angeles County Emergency Incident Response
website has been activated. This website provides a mapping tool and lists real-time evacuation, shelter, and other information/resources related to the Palisades Fire, Eaton Fire, Hurst Fire, and other wildfires.
Evacuation Orders and Warnings:
It’s critical that those in the region pay close attention to
evacuation orders and warnings
from the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CAL FIRE). Those in need can also rely on an extensive network of local, state, and federal resources.
For those close to the fires, you should prepare important documents and items in case you’re asked to evacuate quickly. Because this is a rapidly changing situation, the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection recommends that you prepare a “go bag,” which can include the following items:
Food and water
A map with at least 2 evacuation routes
Necessary prescriptions or medications
A change of clothes & extra eyeglasses/contact lenses
Extra car keys, credit cards, cash, or traveler’s checks
A first aid kit & sanitation supplies
A flashlight & battery-powered radio with extra batteries
Copies of important documents (birth certificates, passports, etc.)
Pet food & water
You can create your own fire preparation checklist through
CAL FIRE’s firePLANNER
.
Air Quality:
Even if you’re not in or near an evacuation area, you can take measures to protect yourself. According to the South Coast Air Quality Management District, the fires have caused
unhealthy air quality in Los Angeles County
. This advisory remains in effect through Thursday, January 9, 2025, at 5:00pm.
Public Health urges everyone that can smell smoke or see ash from fire, even in areas far from fires or areas not covered by a smoke advisory, to avoid or limit outdoor activities. Please
click here
for additional wildfire smoke and ash health safety tips to protect your health and reduce the amount of pollution you are breathing.
Federal Disaster Assistance:
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will provide grants for reimbursement, helping victims access individual assistance to provide immediate critical assistance for displacement, direct grants for rental assistance, disaster mitigation, and public assistance in the form of support from federal fire-fighting agencies.
If you have been affected by these wildfires, you can apply for federal assistance at
www.disasterassitance.gov
,
or call the application phone number at 1-800-621-FEMA (3362)
Additional Resources:
Los Angeles County Emergency Incident Response: This
website
provides a mapping tool and lists real-time evacuation, shelter, and other information/resources related to the Palisades Fire, Eaton Fire, Hurst Fire, and other wildfires.
Alert Long Beach:
Sign up
to receive emergency notifications directly to your mobile phone and/or email. In the event of an emergency, you’ll receive text and/or voice alerts sent to the contact information you provide.
Register for Los Angeles County Emergency Alerts:
More Information on Local Alert Systems
2-1-1: 211 is a free regional information and referral center to connect individuals with resources.
As always, my staff and I are ready to support you with federal agencies should you need it.  Please call my Long Beach Office at 310-831-1799 to see if we can help.