Home
News
Press Releases
November 06, 2025
Durbin Slams Congressional Republicans For Refusing To Address Health Care Costs As Tuesday’s Elections Prove Americans Are Rejecting President Trump’s Policies
“The American people deserve so much more than mere ‘concepts of a plan’ for their health care,” Durbin said in his speech on the Senate floor
WASHINGTON
–
As open enrollment has begun and Americans across the country are seeing the rise in their monthly premiums, U.S. Senate Democratic Whip Dick Durbin (D-IL) spoke on the Senate floor about the health care affordability crisis, which has been manufactured by congressional Republicans as they refuse to extend the
Affordable Care Act’s
(ACA) enhanced premium tax credits and end the government shutdown. If these enhanced premium tax credits are allowed to expire at the end of the year, more than four million Americans are expected to lose their health care coverage, including more than 160,000 people in Illinois.
Durbin began his remarks by reflecting on the outcome of election night, where millions of Americans made their voices heard and rejected the Trump Administration’s policies.
Durbin said,
“These voters want to go to the grocery store or doctor’s office without breaking the bank. But the President, I’m not sure, is even listening. Despite President Trump’s promise to bring prices down on ‘Day One’ of his Administration, Americans have been paying more for their groceries, electricity, and rent… And in 2026, they will be paying far more when it comes to health care. You see, President Trump said on the campaign trail that he had ‘concepts of a plan’ to make health care affordable. But his real plan—that congressional Republicans’ have been following for the past year—unfortunately, is going to make Americans pay dramatically more for their health care.”
In July, congressional Republicans passed their “Big, Beautiful Bill,” which cut Medicaid by nearly $1 trillion, and will result in more than 10 million people losing their health insurance. Congressional Republicans unilaterally wrote and passed the “Big, Beautiful Bill,” and also refused to extend the ACA’s enhanced premium tax credits. These enhanced premium tax credits help more than 20 million people afford their health care.
Durbin shared stories from his constituents, who have already been notified that their 2026 health care premiums will skyrocket.
Durbin said,
“Todd, from Petersburg, wrote to my office and said, ‘In 2025, I had a good plan which was around $560 a month. Sadly, my option now [has] a monthly premium of almost $1,400’… Scot, from Glen Ellyn, wrote, ‘my daughter just received her 2026 premium notice. Without any premium help, her [costs] will increase from $232 to $788 per month.’ And Phyllis, from DuPage County, wrote, ‘I lost my job and have been on ACA [Marketplace] plans. Last year my plan with dental and vision cost me $162.’ Phyllis continued, this year, without a subsidy, [prices are] going up to $1,136. It has a higher deductible, more co-pays, and no vision, nor dental.’”
Durbin continued,
“If Republicans don’t come to the negotiating table, Scot’s daughter will see a $6,600 premium increase, Todd will a face premium increase of more than $10,080, and Phyllis will pay $12,000 more for her health care. These are real stories from real families… people are going to pay thousands of dollars more next year for their health insurance.”
Instead of focusing on lowering prices for Americans, President Trump launched a $40 billion bailout for Argentina, started construction on a grand new ballroom for his billionaire buddies at the White House, and bought two new private jets for Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kristi Noem. Just last week, President Trump also threw himself a lavish Great Gatsby-themed Halloween party at Mar-A-Lago
Durbin concluded,
“Voters are fed up as it showed [this past] Tuesday. As the President treats himself like a king, Americans are rejecting Republicans who show more interest in fawning over the President than lowering the cost of living. There will be more Election Tuesdays like this one if President Trump and congressional Republicans continue to refuse to sit down with Democrats and find a way out of this shutdown… There is no reason we can’t find a deal [that would open the government] and stop millions of Americans from paying double or triple in health insurance premiums. Because the American people deserve so much more than mere ‘concepts of a plan’ when it comes to [their] health care.”
In Illinois, roughly 500,000 people rely on ACA enhanced premium tax credits to afford their health care. Families in Illinois will pay an additional $2,500 on average for their health insurance next year, but many will pay much more. For families in Jackson County, the average premium would increase from $122 a month to $458 a month, totaling $4,000 in additional costs a year. Families in Effingham County will see their monthly premiums increase from $185 a month to a staggering $1,029 a month, an annual increase of more than $10,000.
Video of Durbin’s remarks on the Senate floor is available
here
.
Audio of Durbin’s remarks on the Senate floor is available
here
.
Footage of Durbin’s remarks on the Senate floor is available
here
for TV Stations.
-30-
Print
Email
Share
Tweet
Previous Article
Next Article