Home
News
Press Releases
November 14, 2025
Durbin, Duckworth Join Reed, Collins, Murkowski, & Colleagues To Urge The Trump Administration To Swiftly Release LIHEAP Home Heating Aid
Federal LIHEAP funds help Americans keep the lights and heat on and afford rising utility bills
WASHINGTON
–
As utility rates continue to rise, U.S. Senate Democratic Whip Dick Durbin (D-IL) and U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) joined Senators Jack Reed (D-RI), Susan Collins (R-ME), and Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) in a bipartisan push for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to release funds for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) as swiftly and at the highest level possible. Currently, the Trump Administration is sitting on $4 billion in federal LIHEAP dollars that have yet to be distributed this year.
According to a
new forecast from the National Energy Assistance Directors Association,
home heating costs are estimated to rise nearly eight percent over last winter on average, with costs for heating with electricity forecasted to increase even higher – to 10 percent above last year.
“As Congress works to finalize the Fiscal Year 2026 appropriations bill for the Department of Health and Human Services, we urge you to immediately release the highest amount of Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funding available under the Continuing Resolution,”
the 31 U.S. Senators wrote.
The bipartisan group of Senators say the federal LIHEAP funding is a crucial lifeline that keeps vulnerable citizens safe and warm during winter by helping low-income households and seniors on fixed incomes pay their energy bills. The program also helps reduce energy costs through improved energy efficiency initiatives.
Nationwide, an estimated six million households received assistance with heating and cooling costs through LIHEAP over the last year.
States and tribes typically receive their LIHEAP allocations from HHS by early November. Eligibility for LIHEAP is based on income, family size, and the availability of resources. While eligibility varies by state, most applicants must have a household income below 150 percent of the federal poverty guideline or 60 percent of the state median income.
The Trump Administration has proposed eliminating LIHEAP, including zeroing out funds in its fiscal year 2026 (FY26) budget plan, but Senators Reed, Collins, and Murkowski, joined by Senator Durbin, have led successful bipartisan pushback to save and fund the program. The Senate’s Labor-HHS-Education and Related Agencies Appropriations bill for FY26 would provide a $20 million increase for LIHEAP to $4.045 billion, while the House Appropriations Committee recommended a $10 million increase.
LIHEAP applications are now open for all income-eligible households. Senior citizens and those receiving Social Security Disability or SSI benefits are encouraged to apply as early as possible, but applications will be open to everyone through spring of 2026—or until the funding is exhausted.
In addition to Durbin, Duckworth, Reed, Collins, and Murkowski, the letter was signed by U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-DE), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Mazie K. Hirono (D-HI), Mark Kelly (D-AZ), Angus King (I-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Tina Smith (D-MN), Dan Sullivan (R-AK), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Mark Warner (D-VA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR).
Full text of the letter follows:
November 14, 2025
Dear Secretary Kennedy:
As Congress works to finalize the Fiscal Year 2026 appropriations bill for the Department of Health and Human Services, we urge you to immediately release the highest amount of Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) funding available under the Continuing Resolution.
As the main federal program that helps low-income households and seniors with their energy bills, LIHEAP provides critical assistance during the cold winter and hot summer months. October marked the start of the heating season for many states, and with temperatures already dropping, low-income families and seniors are feeling additional strains on their household budgets.
As state agencies and tribes activate their LIHEAP programs for the coming winter, it is crucial that they have the resources on hand to help low-income households and seniors as soon as possible. As such, we request that you quickly release LIHEAP funds at the highest level possible, so that low-income households do not have to choose between paying for heat and affording other necessities like food or medicine.
We look forward to working with you on this critical program, and thank you for your attention to our concerns and those of our constituents.
Sincerely,
-30-
Print
Email
Share
Tweet
Previous Article
Next Article