Home
News
Press Releases
November 20, 2025
Durbin, Duckworth Join Heinrich, Kelly To Introduce Anti-Cash Grab Act To Repeal ‘Arctic Frost’ Provision
The Anti-Cash Grab Act repeals last-minute provision allowing Republican senators to collect $500,000 per lawfully subpoenaed phone record
WASHINGTON — U.S. Senate Democratic Whip Dick Durbin (D-IL), Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) joined U.S. Senators Martin Heinrich (D-NM) and Mark Kelly (D-AZ) in leading 24 Senate colleagues to introduce the
Anti-Cash Grab Act
, legislation that will repeal a provision — quietly added into the Senate government funding bill by U.S. Senate Majority Leader John Thune (R-SD) at the last minute — that allows Senators to collect $500,000 for every phone record lawfully obtained.
“After shutting down the government, Senate Republicans took further advantage of the chaos they created to sneak in a $500,000 taxpayer-funded payout for Senators into the government funding deal. While working families were worrying about how to put food on the table, Senate Republicans were scheming about how to personally enrich themselves,”
Durbin said.
“The
Anti-Cash Grab Act
would nullify this provision in the government funding deal and prevent lawmakers from attempting to line their own pockets with taxpayer dollars.”
“While Republicans refused to lift a finger to stop health care premiums from skyrocketing, provide SNAP benefits to hungry children or do anything that actually improves people’s lives, they had no problem sneaking themselves a bonus on the taxpayers’ dime,”
Duckworth said.
“Republicans’ shameless decision to line their own pockets while Illinois families struggle to make ends meet is despicable and un-American. Not shaking down the American taxpayer shouldn’t be a partisan issue, which is why I’m proud to join Senator Durbin and our colleagues in urging the Senate to pass the
Anti-Cash Grab Act
to protect our tax dollars from political games.”
The introduction of the
Anti-Cash Grab Act
comes after Durbin has repeatedly called for former Special Counsel Jack Smith to testify publicly before the Senate Judiciary Committee about the “Arctic Frost” investigation, in which the phone records of eight Republican Senators were subpoenaed as part of an inquiry into President Trump’s attempts to overturn the 2020 election. On October 30, Durbin led all Senate Judiciary Democrats in sending a
letter
to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-IA) calling on him to allow Smith to testify and urged Chairman Grassley to request that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) release Volume II of the unredacted “Final Report of the Special Counsel’s Investigations and Prosecutions,” which was submitted to then-Attorney General Merrick Garland in January 2025.
In addition to Durbin, Heinrich, and Kelly, the
Anti-Cash Grab Act
is cosponsored by U.S. Senators Angela Alsobrooks (D-MD), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Chris Coons (D-DE), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Angus King (I-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Ed Markey (D-MA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), Alex Padilla (D-CA), Gary Peters (D-MI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Brain Schatz (D-HI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Peter Welch (D-VT), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR).
A one-page summary of the bill is
here
.
The full text of the bill is
here
.
-30-
Print
Email
Share
Tweet
Previous Article