Home
News
Press Releases
November 18, 2025
Durbin Joins Senate Democrats In Calling For Senate Vote On Epstein Files Transparency Act
Following the House’s overwhelming bipartisan approval today, Senate Democrats call on Majority Leader Thune to “quickly hold a vote” in the Senate and place the legislation immediately on the Senate calendar
WASHINGTON – U.S. Senate Democratic Whip Dick Durbin (D-IL), Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, joined U.S. Senators Gary Peters (D-MI), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), and Jeff Merkley (D-OR) in leading their Senate Democratic colleagues in calling on Leader John Thune (R-SD) to immediately bring the
Epstein Files Transparency Act
to the Senate floor for a vote, without delay or unnecessary process distractions.
The Senators’ call follows the U.S. House of Representatives’ overwhelming bipartisan approval of the measure by a vote of 427-1.
“The victims of Jeffrey Epstein – and the American people – deserve answers, accountability and the truth. So far, they have only seen empty promises from President Trump and his Administration. Now that a majority of the U.S. House of Representatives has acted to provide transparency on this matter – we call on you to quickly hold a vote in the U.S. Senate to help deliver the accountability that was promised and that so many Americans are demanding,”
wrote the Senators.
“Despite multiple Senate oversight requests and House subpoenas for release of the full and complete Epstein files, DOJ and the FBI have refused to produce any information to the Senate and have failed to provide the complete set of files to the House,”
wrote the senators.
“The U.S. Senate has the chance to show strong leadership and swiftly pass this legislation. We urge you to promptly proceed to the consideration of H.R. 185 on the Senate floor pursuant to Senate Rule XIV, so that the legislation can be immediately placed on the Senate Calendar,”
concluded the Senators.
For more than two decades, survivors of Jeffrey Epstein have sought justice and accountability for his alleged sexual crimes involving underage girls. The bipartisan legislation would require the Department of Justice (DOJ) to release all documents and records related to Epstein and his co-conspirator Ghislaine Maxwell, ensuring transparency and providing the American people with access to critical information.
The full text of the letter is available
here
.
In addition to Durbin, Peters, Schumer, and Merkley, the letter is signed by U.S. Senators Angela Alsobrooks (D-MD), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-DE), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Chris Coons (D-DE), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), John Fetterman (D-PA), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), John Hickenlooper (D-CO), Mazie Hirono (D-HI), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Mark Kelly (D-AZ), Andy Kim (D-NJ), Angus King (I-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Ed Markey (D-MA), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Patty Murray (D-WA), Jon Ossoff (D-GA), Alex Padilla (D-CA), Jack Reed (D-RI), Jacky Rosen (D-NV), Bernie Sanders (I-VT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Elissa Slotkin (D-MI), Tina Smith (D-MN), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Mark Warner (D-VA), Raphael Warnock (D-GA), Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR).
In July, Durbin
revealed
that FBI whistleblowers had disclosed that personnel were instructed to “flag” any Epstein records in which President Trump was mentioned. When pressed on this during her oversight hearing, Attorney General Bondi
stonewalled
, saying, “I’m not going to discuss anything about that with you.”
-30-
Print
Email
Share
Tweet
Previous Article
Next Article