[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 29 (Wednesday, February 24, 2016)]
[House]
[Pages H860-H861]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
STOP ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. Jolly) for 5 minutes.
Mr. JOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to talk about an important
congressional reform initiative that I have introduced in this body.
I have had the opportunity to study Congress from virtually every
angle. I graduated from college as a young intern who drove up here
having never been north of Tennessee. As my predecessor said and I
shared: I never thought I would meet a Member of Congress, much less
have the great opportunity and honor to be one.
Through virtually every staff role over the past 15 or 20 years, I
have had a chance to study this body. There are a few experiences now,
as a sitting Member of Congress, that I simply cannot accept.
One of them--the most pressing one--is the amount of time that
Members of Congress are expected or, in some cases, directed to spend
on raising money.
We all know it. Every Member of Congress understands that you arrive
with great expectations only to learn the obligation to spend time
raising money. There is a quiet anger among many Members about that.
[[Page H861]]
It is not comfortable to talk about, frankly. This is one of the more
uncomfortable speeches I will ever give in the well of this House. We
must talk about it. Because when does this become the expectation?
This is an orientation slide for freshmen Members of Congress that
was produced by one of the two major parties of this Congress a few
years back, suggesting that, as a Member of Congress, your first
responsibility is 4 hours a day not in your office, but across the
street in a call suite asking people for money, another 1 to 2 hours a
day networking and raising money, and only 2 hours a day doing your
job.
Members of Congress might have a quiet anger, but the American people
will have a very loud anger when they understand that we are not
accomplishing things here because we are spending too much time raising
money. Let's turn that anger into resolve and change this body and
change Washington forever.
Former Members of Congress are happy to talk about this, retiring
Members who write confessions saying they spent 4,200 hours raising
money, former majority leaders of the other body now writing a book
lamenting how much time they spent raising money, a colleague of ours
leaving this House calling fundraising the main business of Congress.
But what do they all have in common? They are all retiring or
retired. Why don't we do something about it, as sitting Members of
Congress? Why don't we fix this now when we have the opportunity
instead of lamenting it when we are gone?
This is why I have introduced what I call the Stop Act. It is very
simple. It is 3 or 4 pages. Every Member of this body can read it
before they vote on it. It simply prohibits direct solicitation of a
campaign contribution by a sitting Member of Congress.
State legislators in the State of Florida and across the country are
often prohibited from directly soliciting. There are 30 States where
judges are elected, and they are prohibited from directly soliciting
contributions.
I want to say thank you to my colleagues who have cosponsored this.
In just over 3 weeks, we have six cosponsors: Mr. Nolan of Minnesota,
Mr. Jones of North Carolina, Messrs. Duffy and Ribble of Wisconsin, and
Messrs. Mica and Nugent from my State of Florida.
The message is very simple on this. It says to Congress to get back
to work. Let's do our job, the job we were elected to do. We will never
solve border security and immigration reform. We will never balance the
budget. We will never address national security and foreign policy. We
will never address tax reform if we have a part-time Congress in a
full-time world.
In any other profession, if you spend 20 to 30 hours a week doing a
job other than you are hired to do, you would be fired. But, in
Washington, we accept this as the political culture.
Many will say the issue is dark money, the issue is transparency.
Fine. We can have a campaign finance debate. But that is not what this
is about. This is about congressional reform.
I will close with this, Mr. Speaker. Each one of us made a promise to
roughly 700,000 people in the community from which we come and
represent. We made a promise to do our job, not to ask them for money.
We took an oath.
We each took an oath, swearing to uphold and defend the Constitution
of the United States. The last line of our oath says: ``I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties of this office on which I am about to
enter.''
Friends, we are not well and faithfully discharging the duties of
this body when we are spending 20 hours a week asking people for money
and not doing our job.
We are not well and faithfully discharging the duties of this office
when fundraising is the main business, when we have Members missing
votes to raise money, when the most important question sometimes among
colleagues is not what legislation you are working on, but how much
money you have raised. We are not well and faithfully executing the
duties of this House when we are not doing our job.
I stand here not to judge my colleagues. I stand here to try to
change the system. Let's restore credibility to this House. Let's honor
the greatness of this body with greatness of integrity, greatness of
commitment, greatness of resolve.
Let's recognize the great calling of this body and the even greater
calling of this Nation. Let's stand together today and change
Washington forever.
Friends, colleagues, I urge you, while you are here and before
retiring and lamenting the amount of time you spent raising money,
cosponsor the Stop Act. Join me in this effort to change Washington.
____________________