[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 94 (Tuesday, June 14, 2016)]
[House]
[Page H3759]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
ACADEMY APPOINTEES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. Jolly) for 5 minutes.
Mr. JOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I rise this morning to recognize a group of
remarkable young people from Pinellas County, Florida, who have
excelled among their peers and answered the call to duty to serve their
fellow Americans. These young men and women have tested and proven
themselves academically, athletically, and physically, and have
demonstrated the leadership skills necessary to now be offered
appointments to one of our United States Service Academies.
It is an honor to recognize these young men and women from Florida's
13th Congressional District today.
Receiving appointments to attend the U.S. Military Academy at West
Point are:
Elizabeth Brown-Worthington of Gulfport, Florida, a graduate of Boca
Ciega High School;
Andrew Buck of Tierra Verde, Florida, a graduate of Saint Petersburg
Catholic High School;
Sean McClair of Seminole, Florida, a graduate of Osceola Fundamental
High School and the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School;
Tyler Mitchiner of Clearwater, Florida, a graduate of Palm Harbor
University and the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School;
William Moorhead of Clearwater, Florida, a graduate of Clearwater
Central Catholic High School;
Patrick Prior of Saint Petersburg, Florida, a graduate of Osceola
Fundamental High School;
John Rusnak of Seminole, Florida, a graduate of Saint Petersburg
Catholic High School.
Receiving appointments from Pinellas County to attend the U.S. Naval
Academy in Annapolis are:
Connor Price of Safety Harbor, Florida, a graduate of Palm Harbor
University High School and the U.S. Naval Academy Preparatory School;
Jared Price of Safety Harbor, Florida, a graduate of Palm Harbor
University High School and the U.S. Naval Academy Preparatory School;
Zack Quilty of Saint Petersburg, Florida, a graduate of Jesuit High
School; and
Ethan Singer of Clearwater, Florida, a graduate of Countryside High
School.
Receiving appointments to attend the U.S. Air Force Academy from
Pinellas County, Florida are:
Brian Brown of Safety Harbor, Florida, a graduate of Countryside High
School;
Dalton Collins of Largo, Florida, a graduate of Admiral Farragut
Academy and the U.S. Air Force Academy Preparatory School;
Joseph Gannaio of Clearwater, Florida, a graduate of Calvary
Christian High School;
Thomas ``Trey'' Walker of Saint Petersburg, Florida, a graduate of
Saint Petersburg High School.
Receiving appointments to attend the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy
from Pinellas County, Florida, are:
Jackson Misner of Tampa, Florida, a graduate of H.B. Plant High
School; and
Sofia Tucker of Navarre, Florida, a graduate of Navarre High School.
Finally, receiving an appointment to attend the U.S. Coast Guard
Academy is Olivia Suski of Seminole, Florida, a graduate of Seminole
High School and the Marion Military Institute.
These future cadets and midshipmen that we recognize today will be
the future leaders of our military forces and our Merchant Marine. I
wish them Godspeed in the challenges of their summer training and the
academic years to follow.
These young people represent the best of America, and we each look
forward to witnessing their future success and their service to
country.
We, the House of Representatives, can have great confidence in our
Nation's future as we entrust it to these appointees and those of my
colleagues here in Congress.
____________________