[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 23 (Tuesday, February 9, 2016)]
[House]
[Pages H637-H638]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES BOUNDARIES SYSTEM MAP
REVISIONS
Mr. MacARTHUR. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 890) to correct the boundaries of the John H. Chafee Coastal
Barrier Resources System Unit P16, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 890
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. REPLACEMENT OF JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER
RESOURCES SYSTEM MAP.
(a) In General.--The maps subtitled ``Cape Romano Unit P15,
Tigertail Unit FL-63P'' and ``Keewaydin Island Unit P16''
included in the set of maps entitled ``Coastal Barrier
Resources System'' referred to in section 4(a) of the Coastal
Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(a)) and relating to
certain John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources System units
in Florida are hereby replaced by other maps relating to the
units subtitled ``Cape Romano Unit P15/P15P'', ``Keewaydin
Island Unit P16/P16P, Tigertail Unit FL-63P'', and
``Keewaydin Island Unit P16/P16P'', respectively, and dated
April 10, 2015.
(b) Availability.--The Secretary of the Interior shall keep
the replacement maps referred to in subsection (a) on file
and available for inspection in accordance with section 4(b)
of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(b)).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. MacArthur) and the gentleman from New Mexico (Mr. Grijalva)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from New Jersey.
General Leave
Mr. MacARTHUR. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and
include extraneous materials on the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from New Jersey?
There was no objection.
Mr. MacARTHUR. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
This bipartisan bill corrects Coastal Barrier Resources System
boundary errors in Collier County, Florida. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service, which administers the coastal barriers system program, has
acknowledged the need to correct these errors and has since remapped
the area.
The agency sent the new maps to the Congress, which has the sole
authority to change the boundaries and codify the correct maps in this
case. This is what the bill, as amended, achieves. I urge its adoption.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, or CBRA, requires the
identification of hazardous areas on the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts and
makes Federal subsidies off limits to people who choose to develop
these lands.
Particularly in this time of rising sea levels and increased storm
surge brought on by global warming, CBRA is critical to protecting
American taxpayers and sensitive coastal ecosystems.
H.R. 890 would adjust the boundaries of several Coastal Barrier
Resources System units in Florida. These changes have been carefully
mapped by the Fish and Wildlife Service and reflect improvements in
technology that have allowed us to show with great accuracy which
parcels of land do and do not constitute coastal barrier resources
under the law.
As a result, numerous properties that were originally included by
mistake will be removed, and other properties that have been identified
as at risk will be included. These changes to the CBRS are protective
of private property rights, the environment, and the taxpayers.
I urge support of this bipartisan legislation.
Mr. Speaker, having no other Members to address this legislation on
my side, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. MacARTHUR. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. Clawson).
Mr. CLAWSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, I appreciate this opportunity to
present H.R. 890, which adopts new Coastal Barrier Resources System
maps for the southern part of my district, Florida 19, in southwest
Collier County, Florida.
[[Page H638]]
A special thanks to my fellow Members--Don Beyer, Mario Diaz-Balart,
and Chairman Rob Bishop--for their support and helping me push this
through. I urge support of the passage.
On a personal note, it has been my lifelong concern for the
environment and involvement in water quality issues in my hometown of
Bonita Springs, Florida, that led me to Congress on an unknowing path
really. So introducing this bill, to me, today is really special and
personal.
A special note of thanks to those who helped--so many folks--
particularly Bob and Jack for their perseverance. Perseverance paid
off. Also, I thank Cherie for her abiding inspiration and to Yodi.
The CBRS was created by Congress with the 1982 Coastal Barrier
Resources Act. This initiative preserves the ecological integrity of
coastal areas while still protecting private property rights. This
initiative preserves the ecological integrity of coastal areas that
serve as important barriers against wind and tidal forces caused by
coastal storms, and reduces further development in these sensitive
areas. In other words, it creates a perpetual protected area for our
wonderful Gulf wildlife.
These new maps have passed public review, OMB review, and have been
released by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
This is the southern part of my district. The new maps correct errors
from 40 years ago, which seriously hurt some 1,600 of our constituents
and hurt their access to flood insurance, home mortgages, and
refinancing.
These new maps also add 17,000 acres in perpetuity to CBRS, 17,000
acres principally in this zone right here, between Naples and Marco
Island and also a little bit south. Keewaydin Island--that you see
right here, just south of Naples--and Cape Romano are part of the
pristine, picturesque Ten Thousand Islands chain that begins 20 miles
of Naples. These newly preserved areas highlighted on these charts
cover five geographical units, part of now over 40,000 continuous acres
that will be permanently protected.
This is government doing something right for all stakeholders and for
all the generations that will follow us.
H.R. 890, protecting 15 miles of natural coastal barriers, is sound
economics. It is a piece of what needs to be done toward growing
southwest Florida's multibillion dollar private and commercial real
estate values and south Florida's tourism industry, which brings in
over 5 million visitors to my district. It also employs one out of
every five people in the local workforce.
I am proud to report that this bill will create the largest grouping
of CBRS units nationwide, protecting our unique Florida Everglades and
ecosystem, aquatic plants and animals, other wildlife, and also
protecting private properties from storms and floods.
Keewaydin Island right here, just south of Naples, is one of the
largest, if not the largest, sea turtle nesting areas in Florida and in
the United States. Depending on the time of year, these are the nests
that we see throughout our district on the beach. Also in this area, we
see lots of the beautiful spoonbill that you can't find in too many
different places.
The Florida Everglades are a natural treasure. It is home to wildlife
and plants that are unique in our Nation: fish, tortoises, reptiles,
and insects. It is our duty to protect these species. This bill will
have a permanent, positive impact on preserving this fragile ecological
area and quality of life.
Three years ago, I waded into the Gulf of Mexico with my folks. They
urged me to get involved in local politics, hoping that I could have
just a small impact and make a small, positive difference in the health
of the waters of southwest Florida. My mom is gone now, but she always
hoped that a moment like this would come.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. MacARTHUR. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to
the gentleman from Florida.
Mr. CLAWSON of Florida. Mr. Speaker, this is a moment that we can
accomplish something positive for our constituents, positive for our
economy, and positive for our waters of south Florida. I am very
appreciative to have a small role, and I acknowledge that we have so
much more to do to conserve the beauty of southwest Florida for
generations to come.
Mr. MacARTHUR. Mr. Speaker, I have no other speakers.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. MacArthur) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 890, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so as to read: ``A bill to revise
the boundaries of certain John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier Resources
System units in Florida.''.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
____________________