[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 19 (Thursday, February 1, 2024)]
[House]
[Pages H369-H373]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
PROTECT OUR COMMUNITIES FROM DUIs ACT
Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution 980,
I call up the bill (H.R. 6976) to amend the Immigration and Nationality
Act to provide that aliens who have been convicted of or who have
committed an offense for driving while intoxicated or impaired are
inadmissible and deportable, and ask for its immediate consideration in
the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 980, in lieu of
the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the
Committee on the Judiciary printed in the bill, an amendment in the
nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print
118-22 is adopted and the bill, as amended, is considered read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as follows:
H.R. 6976
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ``Protect Our Communities from
DUIs Act''.
SEC. 2. INADMISSIBILITY AND DEPORTABILITY RELATED TO DRIVING
WHILE INTOXICATED OR IMPAIRED.
(a) Inadmissibility.--Section 212(a)(2) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
``(J) Driving while intoxicated or impaired.--Any alien who
has been convicted of, who admits having committed, or who
admits committing acts which constitute the essential
elements of an offense for driving while intoxicated or
impaired, as those terms are defined under the law of the
jurisdiction where the conviction, offense, or acts
constituting the essential elements of the offense occurred
(including an offense for driving while under the influence
of or impaired by alcohol or drugs), without regard to
whether the conviction or offense is classified as a
misdemeanor or felony under Federal, State, tribal, or local
law, is inadmissible.''.
(b) Deportability.--Section 237(a)(2) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1227(a)(2)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
``(G) Driving while intoxicated or impaired.--Any alien who
has been convicted of an offense for driving while
intoxicated or impaired, as those terms are defined under the
law of the jurisdiction where the conviction occurred
(including a conviction for driving while under the influence
of or impaired by alcohol or drugs), without regard to
whether the conviction is classified as a misdemeanor or
felony under Federal, State, tribal, or local law, is
deportable.''.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill, as amended, shall be debatable for
1 hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees.
After 1 hour of debate, it shall be in order to consider the further
amendment printed in part D of House Report 118-362, if offered by the
Member designated in the report, which shall be considered read, shall
be separately debatable for the time specified in the report equally
divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not
be subject to a demand for a division of the question.
The gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Moore) and the gentleman from New
York (Mr. Nadler) each will control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Moore).
General Leave
Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all
Members have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their
remarks and insert extraneous materials on H.R. 6976.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from Alabama?
There was no objection.
Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, every 45 minutes: that is how often someone in the
United States dies in a crash involving an alcohol-impaired driver.
In 2021 alone, there were 13,384 alcohol-impaired driving fatalities.
In the same year, drunk driving crashes led to 400,000 injuries. Those
crashes don't discriminate. The victim could be me, it could be you, or
it could be one of our family members.
This issue hits close to home for me. There was a newlywed couple
from my hometown of Enterprise, Alabama, named Angel and Jeremy Seay. I
knew them personally.
Angel and Jeremy were riding a motorcycle together when, out of
nowhere, an illegal alien under the influence of alcohol collided into
the newlyweds with his pickup. Their lives were cut dramatically short.
Sadly, tragedies like this are not uncommon across our country.
Consider this case from Missouri. Just 2 months ago, an illegal alien
from Honduras was sentenced for driving drunk at 100 miles per hour and
killing a man.
Now, Mr. Speaker, if you listen to my Democratic colleagues, you may
think
[[Page H370]]
that drunk driving is no big deal. In fact, at a Judiciary Committee
markup in 2021, my Democratic colleagues voted down three Republican
amendments that would have made certain aliens ineligible for green
cards if they had 1, 2, or even 10 DUI convictions.
Despite that, that should come as no surprise.
In 2020, then-candidate Joe Biden said that illegal aliens with DUI
convictions should be allowed to stay in the United States. Biden
asserted that ICE should not arrest aliens with drunk driving
convictions because: You only arrest for the purpose of dealing with a
felony that is committed, and I don't count drunk driving as a felony.
Candidate Biden even called for ICE officers to be fired if they
arrested aliens without felony convictions.
To President Biden and my Democratic colleagues, today we say:
Absolutely not. If you are a guest in this country and you drive drunk,
you should be removed from our country, period.
Instead of hearing agreement on this from Democrats, today we will
hear these farfetched hypotheticals and accusations that this bill is
cruel and too broad.
Instead of engaging in hypotheticals, let's again revisit the facts:
Drunk drivers are involved in 31 percent of all crash deaths in the
country.
On average, drunk driving has killed nearly 11,000 people in the
United States every year from 2012 to 2021. Yet, immigration laws do
not explicitly make aliens inadmissible or removable if they drive
drunk and recklessly break our laws.
H.R. 6976 changes that, and it creates safer streets and safer
communities for all of us.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the Protect Our
Communities From DUIs Act, and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, this bill is just another page from the majority's tired
old playbook of inventing perceived gaps in the law and providing
overly broad legislation to fix them.
DUIs are a serious problem. Over 13,000 people died in alcohol
impaired driving traffic deaths in 2021, and all of those deaths were
preventable. However, instead of working on proven solutions like
improving access to public transportation and ride-sharing programs so
that people have an alternative to driving drunk, Republicans are
laying the blame for this problem at the feet of immigrants.
Let me be clear. No one here wants to see individuals who are true
threats to public safety eligible for immigration benefits. However,
our immigration laws already exclude public safety threats from being
able to get visas or legally remain in the country. Under our current
laws, this includes those who have committed serious DUI offenses.
Under the Immigration and Nationality Act, a noncitizen who is
convicted of or admits to committing a crime involving moral turpitude,
or a CIMT, is generally inadmissible. Likewise, a noncitizen who is
convicted of a CIMT, where a sentence of 1 year or longer may be
imposed, is deportable.
There is substantial case law demonstrating that serious DUI offenses
are considered CIMTs under current law. DUI where the maximum possible
penalty is a year or more and where there is serious bodily harm; hit-
and-runs; an aggravated DUI; and a DUI involving driving with knowledge
of an invalid, suspended, or revoked license are all CIMTs and are,
therefore, already deportable offenses.
This means that under current law, the people who are drinking and
driving and putting people at risk of harm are already removable.
Nonetheless, the majority is not satisfied with this. They want to
deport everyone who has ever received any conviction for any DUI
offense. Here is the problem with this approach: every State has a
different standard for how they define and prosecute DUIs. Some States
will charge people with a DUI even if they are not actually driving a
car.
For example, prosecutors in Virginia convicted a man of DUI who was
inebriated and asleep in the driver's seat of his car with the keys in
the ignition so he could listen to music in his driveway. This case, in
which the driver never even left his driveway or even turned his car
all the way on, went all the way to the Virginia Supreme Court. We
cannot rely on prosecutorial discretion in this type of case.
Under case law, the man in this case would not ultimately be subject
to removal based on this conviction if he was a noncitizen.
Nevertheless, if this bill were to be enacted, such a conviction would
lead to the deportation of even a longstanding green card holder.
Remember, Mr. Speaker, we are talking here about longstanding green
card holders, not illegal aliens. These are people who entered the
country legally, who may have been here for 20 or 30 years, who have
American citizen spouses and children.
If this bill were enacted, such a conviction of sleeping in your own
car inebriated in your own driveway going nowhere would get you
deported.
If this bill fixed a serious gap in the law, I would be supportive.
Nevertheless, this bill doesn't do that. It puts people who are here
legally at risk of removal for making even a minor mistake that harmed
no one, all at a time when immigration courts have historic backlogs
and the Republicans are refusing to provide DHS with the resources it
needs to enforce the laws currently on the books.
This is purely for show, but I would expect nothing less from a party
that has admitted they would rather wait to fix the problems in our
immigration system so that President Trump can preserve the issue for
his campaign than actually work toward meaningful reform now.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to oppose this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, Democrats want to pretend that
this bill is extreme, cruel, and harsh, as if imposing consequences on
aliens for breaking our laws is somehow unheard of.
Yet, guess who also bar drunk drivers entry into ports?
Canada. That is correct.
In at least this one particular area, our liberal friends to the
north get it right. Of course they do because it just makes sense. Mr.
Speaker, if you are a guest in our country, and you drive drunk or
impaired, you shouldn't be allowed to stay here as we wait for you to
do it again or to kill or seriously injure someone.
Mr. Speaker, let's pass H.R. 6976 today and make these sensible
changes.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from Florida (Mr.
Posey).
Mr. POSEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman from Alabama for
yielding and for bringing forth this great bill to protect Americans.
Over the last few days, I have heard more lies about the immigration
crisis at our southern border than any other issue since ObamaCare.
Mr. Speaker, you remember ObamaCare. We promised that you could keep
your own insurance company, promised you can keep your own doctor, and
promised it would cost less. These were all lies, but the lies about
immigration are even greater this year.
This week I heard a Member across the aisle in an apparent theatric
and disingenuous gesture of good will falsely refer to me as being his
friend as he hurled lie after lie denigrating my colleagues and me.
Although I do have friends on the other side of the aisle, this is not
my kind of friend.
He hurled lie after lie and insult after insult as he theatrically
appealed to those listening or watching on this House floor--which
incidentally is against the rules of the House, and I am surprised the
Speaker did not call him out of order--as he referred to my colleagues
and me as MAGA Republican extremists.
Some people are called Trump phobic. They can't say Trump's name
without Republican extremist attached to it.
He claimed that we didn't want to solve the crisis at the border.
Calling anyone who wants our country to have a secure border a MAGA
Republican extremist is not only a clear sign of acute Trump phobia,
but it is clear evidence of just how out of touch some people are with
the overwhelming majority of Americans and reality for that matter.
{time}  0930
There may be some--however, I don't know them--Republicans,
Democrats, or Independents who actually believe
[[Page H371]]
that when somebody breaks into your home, that they are entitled to
become a member of your family.
How about being honest here for a change?
He knew, I know, everyone knows, even the most challenged Trumphobics
know that, despite President Biden's and Secretary Mayorkas' numerous
fantasy denials, there has, in fact, been a crisis at our southern
border, and it began when the President took office.
Now, our President finally acknowledges that we have a border crisis
and said he will fix it, but only if we give him more money to more
quickly process more illegals. That will not fix the crisis at the
border.
The bizarre proposal that the border can be secured while still
allowing 5,000 illegals a day to invade our country is like claiming it
is possible to be half pregnant.
You have a right to stand with the drug cartels, but I and the rest
of the MAGA Republicans stand with Texas and the United States of
America.
The sovereignty of our Nation, the safety and security of American
communities is not up for negotiation. It can only be fixed by the
President reversing his executive orders that created the invasion in
the first place, or the adoption of H.R. 2.
In the meantime, I am more than happy to support Congressman Moore's
H.R. 6976 to save American lives.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as she may consume to the
distinguished gentlewoman from Washington (Ms. Jayapal), the ranking
Democrat on the Immigration Subcommittee.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to H.R. 6976.
Once again, the majority is wasting our time by putting forward a
piece of legislation that has zero chance of becoming law and that is
extraordinarily broad. No one condones driving under the influence. We
should do everything we can to prevent people from getting behind the
wheel while intoxicated, but this bill, designed to scapegoat and
denigrate immigrants, will not solve the serious problem of DUIs.
Public safety threats, including those who have been convicted of
serious DUI offenses, are already inadmissible and removable under the
Immigration and Nationality Act, and this bill would not change or
enhance that.
Under the INA, a conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude
where the punishment can be for a year or longer makes an individual
deportable. Courts have ruled over and over again that serious DUI
offenses that put others at risk are CIMTs and make the perpetrators
deportable.
But this bill isn't about serious offenses, Mr. Speaker. Far from it.
The bill says that a conviction for a single DUI offense,
misdemeanor, or felony makes you instantly deportable and an admission
to such a offense makes you instantly inadmissible. No questions asked.
I can understand, maybe, the appeal of something that sounds like a
zero-tolerance policy, but let me tell you, Mr. Speaker, if we had that
kind of policy here in the House of Representatives, there would be
several Members that would not be Members of this Chamber.
Moreover, by including every single type of DUI offense, this bill
would make someone deportable for not driving under the influence. That
is because States have a wide variety of opinions on what is a DUI. For
example, Arizona's DUI statute allows people to be charged with a DUI
if they are intoxicated and have ``physical control'' of their vehicle.
The Ninth Circuit found that the breadth of this statute means--and I
am quoting here, ``One may be convicted under it for sitting in one's
own car in one's own driveway with the key in the ignition and a bottle
of beer in one's hand.''
Because of this, the Ninth Circuit determined that a conviction under
this statute was insufficient to count as a deportable offense. As the
court put it, ``Drunken driving is despicable. Having physical control
of a car while drinking is not''--their words, not mine.
As many places across the country experience cold spells in the last
week or so, there are States that would allow prosecution of someone
simply if they were sitting in their car with the heat on while
inebriated even if it was in their own driveway.
Current law allows judges to use their discretion to look at the
broader facts of the case. This bill would strip that discretion away
from them and would mandate that even someone whose only crime was
sitting in a parked car while inebriated must be deported.
Let's not forget that deportability grounds, like the one that this
bill would create, impact immigrants who are here lawfully, those who
my colleagues always like to say, ``came the right way.''
By the way, Mr. Speaker, I am one of those. I came here to this
country at 16 years old. It took me 17 years to get my citizenship, and
here I am as a proud Member of the United States House of
Representatives.
Are we really saying that we think the best use of our very limited
Federal Government resources is to work on deporting a green card
holder who decided to sleep in their car rather than drive home drunk
from a bar? A green card holder not trying to drive drunk, just trying
to stay warm? I certainly don't think that is a good use of our
resources. It is certainly not a good use of our time on this floor.
But my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have made it clear
that they are not interested in sensible solutions, just in
sensationalism. This bill is another example of that.
Also, I hope my colleagues will stop referring to people as illegals.
People are human beings. They have different statuses. Some are
undocumented. If you want to say some are illegal, but let's not call
human beings illegal. I am tired of that language.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to reject this bill.
Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman
from Minnesota (Mr. Stauber), a former law enforcement officer and a
good friend of ours.
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, President Biden, today, by executive order
can end catch and release, cease the exploitation of the parole
authority, reinstate remain in Mexico, expand expedited removal
authority, and renew building the wall.
By executive order, Mr. Speaker, he can do that, which will stop the
illegal immigration by 80 percent, just those executive orders. He can
do that today.
Mr. Speaker, I am horrified and I am dismayed. We have been shouting
from the rooftops that the border is a crisis for years. And finally,
finally, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are beginning to
acknowledge there is a problem just in time for an election.
How shocking?
Just like when they switched from ``defund the police'' to pro-police
rhetoric in 2022 just before the election. They have this playbook down
pat.
Since the President has taken office, Mr. Speaker, there have been
over 7 million illegal crossings at our southern border. Over 8.3
million illegal crossings nationwide. Yes, that is right. Our southern
border is in such disarray and has sucked up so much of our resources
that our northern border is wide open, and the cartels are taking
advantage, including in the State of New York where my esteemed
colleague, who is claiming time in opposition on the other side of the
aisle, is from.
His State is in desperate need of help from illegals taking over
their cities, overrunning their public safety, overrunning their
schools, overrunning their social services, and he stands up here, Mr.
Speaker, and says there is nothing wrong.
This crisis is personal, as it is impacting the safety and security
of my constituents. In 2022, Minnesota resort owners along the Canadian
border in Minnesota caught illegal immigrants trespassing on their
property.
Last fall, a young girl in Bemidji, Minnesota, was sexually assaulted
and 11 illegal immigrants were found at the scene.
And just last week, Mr. Speaker, authorities arrested an al-Shabaab
terrorist in Minneapolis. The terrorist was caught at the southern
border 1 year prior and released back into our country by the Biden
administration's catch and release. They allowed him to roam for 1 year
in this country, and it is alleged, Mr. Speaker, that he was trading in
illegal arms.
I fear it is only a matter of time before another September 11 occurs
on our soil, and we must not let that happen.
[[Page H372]]
If Democrats were serious about making our border secure, they would
encourage their colleagues in the Senate to pass the already House-
passed bill, H.R. 2, the most strongest worded piece of legislation on
our border in this country's history.
They can get it to his desk immediately for President Biden to sign,
or they would call on the President to use his executive authorities,
as I already stated, to reinstate President Trump's policies that were
keeping our Nation safe.
But they are not serious, so, yes, I am here today to beg my
colleagues on the other side of the aisle to vote for this bill that
would make illegal immigrants convicted of a DUI deportable or
inadmissible to our country.
Because of my law enforcement background, Mr. Speaker, I am probably
one of the very few Members of Congress who has ever been to the scene
of a drunk driving accident where there was a death. One of very few
who has delivered death notices to unsuspecting families or victims,
and I pray that none of you ever have to deliver or receive such
heartbreaking news.
At a minimum, Mr. Speaker, we should keep illegal immigrants who
drive under the influence of alcohol and put people's lives in danger
out of this country.
To my Democratic colleagues, I ask: Get on the side of public safety
and law enforcement all of the time, not just during election years.
This is an easy vote, and I ask my colleagues to do the right thing and
vote ``yes'' on H.R. 6976.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman
from Utah (Mr. Curtis).
Mr. CURTIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 6976, the
Protect Our Communities from DUIs Act.
I have personally been to the southern border and seen the crisis
firsthand. I don't care your political persuasion, all of us know what
is happening down there is wrong and needs to be corrected.
The first duty of the Federal Government is to protect American
citizens, and this cannot be done without securing our border. I am
pleased that the House has taken the steps this week to do so.
It is not clear under current law that individuals illegally in this
country can be deported for driving while intoxicated. This legislation
would ensure any noncitizen convicted or admitting to driving under the
influence would no longer be allowed to remain in the United States.
This shouldn't be controversial.
When you drive drunk, you are putting your neighbors and the broader
community at unacceptable risk, and that we cannot allow.
Also, this week, we passed legislation that would allow law
enforcement to prosecute criminals who intentionally refuse to stop for
Border Patrol agents. The practice of running from Border Patrol agents
is dangerous for residents, patrol officers, and the fugitive. I hold
deep compassion for those who are in circumstances that they feel the
need to enter the United States illegally. However, we are a country of
laws and need to ensure individuals know they need to enter the United
States only through the legal manners.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support this legislation.
{time}  0945
Mr. Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. Self).
Mr. SELF. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 6976, the Protect
our Communities from DUIs Act.
I will be on the border Saturday yet again, and it is a total mess.
Illegal aliens continue to surge through the southern border and are
overwhelming many States, to include those from the other side of the
aisle.
In addition to the fentanyl overdoses and cartel violence, drunk
driving has been a major issue that has senselessly taken too many
American lives.
Last year, 52-year-old Special Olympian Craig Schimming was hit and
killed in a car wreck on his way to church by an illegal alien drunk
and high on meth.
Devastating stories like this happen far too often across our
country, and there is absolutely no reason illegal aliens with DUI
convictions should be able to stay in the United States.
The Protect our Communities from DUIs Act would deport illegal aliens
who have been convicted of or committed the offense of driving while
drunk or impaired.
This is commonsense legislation, and every Member of the people's
House should support this bill.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to close, and I yield myself
the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, the last few speakers on the Republican side spent most
of their time not addressing this bill but addressing the general
crisis at our southern border.
The fact is there is a crisis. We all know that. The fact is that one
of the major problems--and Republicans say this all the time, and they
are right--is catch and release.
Someone is caught or more usually turns themselves in to a Border
Patrol officer, claims asylum, and is given a court date 4 years, 5
years down the road. Why? Because we do not have enough asylum
officers. We do not have enough asylum judges.
President Biden requested $14 billion to increase the number of
Border Patrol men and women and to increase the number of asylum judges
and immigration judges so that you wouldn't have catch and release; so
that people who claimed asylum would have their cases adjudicated in
weeks, not in years.
Those who are entitled to asylum would be admitted to the country and
could work and those who are not could be swiftly removed, deported
from the country.
Do our Republican colleagues want to do that? No. They don't want to
give the President the means of alleviating this problem. They want a
campaign issue, and they are very open about it.
You have in the Senate a painstakingly negotiated and extraordinarily
conservative--so we hear, I haven't seen the text yet--strong
immigration bill negotiated by such liberals as Senator Lankford and
Senator Graham, and they are going to pass it, in all likelihood.
The Republicans in the House say we won't even look at it. Why?
Because the former President, President Trump, said don't pass
anything. I want a campaign issue.
They don't want to solve the problem. They want to keep the problem
going as a campaign issue, and they said it themselves.
Don't get up here and talk about the problems on the southern border
when you won't give this President any of the authority or the means
that he seeks to deal with it when you say, as Speaker Johnson said,
you are not going to even look at the bill from the Senate because it
isn't perfect. Since when do we insist on perfect legislation?
Now, Mr. Speaker, let's get to this bill. DUIs are a serious problem,
and no one who poses a threat to public safety should be eligible for
immigration benefits, but that is already the case under current law.
This legislation is a gross overreach that would lead to absurd
consequences and deportation for people who pose no threat to our
country, such as the examples we heard of someone who, rather than
driving drunk, is in his own car inebriated with the key turned on,
listening to music in his own driveway, posing a threat to no one.
Even for people who have been here many years, with American citizen
spouses and children, that would lead to automatic deportation while
doing nothing that our laws do not already do to deter people from
driving under the influence--driving under the influence as opposed to
sitting in their driveway under the influence.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to oppose this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, in response to my colleagues on
the left. First, my colleagues across the aisle say that it is a
campaign issue, that we are trying to make this is a campaign issue.
It is not. They made it a campaign issue when Joe Biden came in day
one and did away with the remain in Mexico policy, when they started
this catch and release program, and now they are saying they need more
money. It is the executive orders that have created the problem on the
U.S. southern border.
I have been there a number of times--three times, to be exact--and
[[Page H373]]
Sheriff Dannels told us the best he had ever seen the border in 2018
was under Donald Trump. The worst he has ever seen the border was then,
and that was before the recent 200,000 people came across last month.
To get up here and say that the administration needs more money or
that they need some law--no. Biden has every tool in the toolbox to
shut the U.S. southern border down, and he has continued to create
crises for our communities. This government is so good often at setting
the building on fire and then wanting to fund the fire department.
We don't need more money. We just need to apply the laws that are on
the books and shut this flow down across this border before more and
more people get killed and injured in these accidents we are talking
about.
The Democrats would prefer to engage in these outlandish
hypotheticals and make light of driving under the influence rather than
protect American communities from dangerous drivers.
Again, here are some facts. According to the Mothers Against Drunk
Driving: Most drunk driving offenders drive at least 80 times drunk
before they are arrested.
Additionally, a 2014 article detailed how more than one-third of the
individuals who are convicted of driving under the influence are repeat
offenders.
The Protect our Communities from DUIs Act ensures that aliens who
drive drunk can be removed from the United States after their first
conviction--not after the tenth, not after they kill or seriously
injure a child of yours or mine or a grandchild--instead of spending
time on a 50-State survey of DUI laws to formulate some farfetched
hypotheticals.
I encourage my colleagues to grapple with the consequences of drunk
driving and support this commonsense bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time for debate on the bill has expired.
The Chair understands that amendment No. 1 will not be offered.
Pursuant to the rule, the previous question is ordered on the bill.
The question is on the engrossment and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was
read the third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Speaker, on that I demand the yeas and
nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
Announcement by the Speaker Pro Tempore
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Steube). Pursuant to clause 9 of Rule
20, this 15-minute vote on passage of the bill will be followed by a 5-
minute vote on agreeing to the Speaker's approval of the Journal, if
ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 274,
nays 150, not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 31]
YEAS--274
Aderholt
Alford
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bean (FL)
Bentz
Bergman
Bice
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Boebert
Bost
Boyle (PA)
Brecheen
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budzinski
Burchett
Burgess
Burlison
Calvert
Cammack
Caraveo
Carey
Carl
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Chavez-DeRemer
Ciscomani
Cline
Cloud
Clyde
Cohen
Cole
Collins
Comer
Courtney
Craig
Crane
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cuellar
Curtis
D'Esposito
Davids (KS)
Davidson
Davis (NC)
De La Cruz
Deluzio
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Donalds
Duarte
Duncan
Dunn (FL)
Edwards
Ellzey
Emmer
Estes
Ezell
Fallon
Feenstra
Ferguson
Finstad
Fischbach
Fitzgerald
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flood
Foster
Foxx
Franklin, Scott
Fry
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garbarino
Garcia, Mike
Gimenez
Golden (ME)
Gonzales, Tony
Good (VA)
Gooden (TX)
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Greene (GA)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hageman
Harder (CA)
Harris
Harshbarger
Hayes
Hern
Higgins (LA)
Hill
Himes
Hinson
Horsford
Houchin
Houlahan
Hoyle (OR)
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunt
Issa
Jackson (NC)
Jackson (TX)
James
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Kean (NJ)
Keating
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kiggans (VA)
Kildee
Kiley
Kim (CA)
Kuster
Kustoff
LaHood
LaLota
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Landsman
Langworthy
Latta
LaTurner
Lawler
Lee (FL)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Letlow
Levin
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luna
Luttrell
Lynch
Mace
Malliotakis
Maloy
Mann
Manning
Massie
Mast
McCaul
McClain
McClintock
McCormick
McHenry
Meuser
Miller (IL)
Miller (OH)
Miller (WV)
Miller-Meeks
Mills
Molinaro
Moolenaar
Mooney
Moore (AL)
Moore (UT)
Moran
Morelle
Moskowitz
Mrvan
Murphy
Nehls
Newhouse
Nickel
Norman
Nunn (IA)
Obernolte
Ogles
Owens
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Peltola
Pence
Perez
Perry
Peters
Pettersen
Pfluger
Posey
Reschenthaler
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rose
Rosendale
Ross
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Ryan
Salazar
Salinas
Schneider
Scholten
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Self
Sessions
Sherrill
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Sorensen
Spanberger
Spartz
Stanton
Stauber
Steel
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Strong
Swalwell
Sykes
Tenney
Thompson (PA)
Tiffany
Timmons
Titus
Turner
Valadao
Van Drew
Van Duyne
Van Orden
Vasquez
Wagner
Walberg
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wild
Williams (NY)
Williams (TX)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yakym
Zinke
NAYS--150
Adams
Aguilar
Amo
Auchincloss
Balint
Barragan
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bowman
Brown
Brownley
Bush
Carbajal
Cardenas
Carson
Carter (LA)
Casar
Casten
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cherfilus-McCormick
Chu
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Cleaver
Clyburn
Connolly
Correa
Costa
Crockett
Crow
Davis (IL)
Dean (PA)
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
DeSaulnier
Doggett
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Fletcher
Foushee
Frankel, Lois
Frost
Garamendi
Garcia (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Garcia, Robert
Goldman (NY)
Gomez
Gonzalez, Vicente
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Higgins (NY)
Hoyer
Huffman
Ivey
Jackson (IL)
Jackson Lee
Jacobs
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Kamlager-Dove
Kelly (IL)
Khanna
Kilmer
Kim (NJ)
Krishnamoorthi
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lee (CA)
Lee (PA)
Leger Fernandez
Lieu
Lofgren
Magaziner
Matsui
McBath
McClellan
McCollum
McGarvey
McGovern
Meeks
Menendez
Meng
Mfume
Moore (WI)
Moulton
Mullin
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Quigley
Ramirez
Raskin
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Sanchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell
Sherman
Soto
Stansbury
Stevens
Strickland
Takano
Thanedar
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Tlaib
Tokuda
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres (NY)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Velazquez
Wasserman Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Williams (GA)
Wilson (FL)
NOT VOTING--7
Armstrong
Dingell
Norcross
Phillips
Rogers (KY)
Scalise
Smith (WA)
{time}  1029
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr. CLEAVER, and Mrs. TRAHAN changed
their vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.''
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
____________________