[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 20 (Wednesday, February 3, 2016)]
[House]
[Pages H504-H505]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
HUD OVER-INCOME HOUSING
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Woodall). The Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. Jolly) for 5 minutes.
Mr. JOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of bipartisan
legislation that the House recently passed, H.R. 3700, the Housing
Opportunity Through
[[Page H505]]
Modernization Act, and specifically section 103 that addresses a
disturbing trend in taxpayer federally subsidized housing.
Last summer, HUD's inspector general published an audit revealing
that over 25,000 recipients of taxpayer-supported housing actually
exceeded the maximum allowable income to qualify for housing
assistance. Importantly, roughly triple that number is on a wait list
for housing. In fact, those on the wait list are economically
qualified.
Worse, to pay for these over-income tenants, American taxpayers--you
and I--are on the hook for $104 million next year. While hundreds of
thousands of desperate low-income American families legitimately in
need of taxpayer-supported housing today sit on those lists idly
waiting for much-needed help, tens of thousands of over-income tenants
sit in taxpayer-supported housing.
In one instance, a New York family with an income of nearly $500,000
is receiving taxpayer-subsidized public housing. In Nebraska, an
individual with double the income limit and $1.6 million in assets is
living in taxpayer-supported housing, paying $300 a month. In my home
State of Florida, we have many cases as well.
It is very clear that eliminating this kind of waste, fraud, and
abuse is the reason that we serve today. It is critical that we do so.
A combination of inadequate congressional directives and an
indifferent Federal bureaucracy has let down the American people--the
people who trust Congress to responsibly and effectively allocate tax
dollars. It has also let down the low-income families on the wait list
who are hoping for an opportunity to climb out of poverty.
I am pleased that the House acted responsibly yesterday to pass
legislation to stop this failed policy. Section 103 of the Housing
Opportunity Through Modernization Act sets clear requirements for HUD
and, now, for local housing authorities.
Under this section, households currently in public housing whose
income exceeds 120 percent of the median income level for 2 consecutive
years will no longer be permitted to receive taxpayer assistance.
Further, public housing authorities will be required to report annually
to Congress and the American people on tenant incomes so that we might
maintain proper oversight of this program.
These are reasonable reforms that bring accountability to a Federal
program that desperately needs it, ensures a smooth pathway for over-
income households to a reasonable transition off of taxpayer
assistance, and should create new opportunities for those on the wait
list.
I am also pleased to see that HUD is finally taking steps to address
this matter. It is far too late, but at least they are. Just yesterday,
the agency announced that it will consider a much-needed new rule to
strengthen oversight of over-income tenancy in public housing.
Mr. Speaker, we should not rest until we can be sure that taxpayer
dollars, those of the men and women who entrust us to represent them,
are going to support only those American families most in need of
assistance.
We still have much work remaining, but with passage of the Housing
Opportunity Through Modernization Act, we have made a very important
first step. Let us, together, hope that the Senate and the President
will join with us in this important work on behalf of the American
taxpayers that we represent.
____________________