[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 33 (Tuesday, March 1, 2016)]
[House]
[Page H1050]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
HONORING CALVARY BAPTIST CHURCH ON ITS 150TH ANNIVERSARY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. Jolly) for 5 minutes.
Mr. JOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize an institution that
has served the people of Pinellas County, the people of Florida, and
people in all corners of the world for 150 years. It is an institution
that continues each day to serve our loving God.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize and honor Calvary Baptist
Church in Clearwater, Florida, as it celebrates its 150th anniversary.
In 1866, Reverend C.S. Reynolds and his wife Judith, along with a
handful of Christ followers, founded the Midway Baptist Church in
Clearwater Harbor, Florida. The church is considered to be the first
organized church of any kind in what later became the city of
Clearwater, and it was the very first Baptist Church in Pinellas
County.
During the 1920s, under the leadership of Pastor A.J. Kroelinger, the
church undertook a major building project in the heart of Clearwater.
The ornate rotunda was completed in 1926 and became known as one of
the most magnificent buildings in the Southland. It stood as the home
for Calvary Baptist Church and was recognized as a Clearwater landmark
for nearly 80 years.
Calvary's history is a story of God's grace and providence. It
endured the effects of both World Wars and the Great Depression. It
continued to experience eras of significant growth under the leadership
of Pastor O.E. Burton throughout the 1950s and 1960s and Pastor Bill
Anderson, who led the church from 1975 to 2002. Since 2004, Pastor
Willie Rice has led this vibrant church and its expanding outreach.
The church is distinguished by its faithful adherence to the message
of God's love and the redemptive purposes in and through Jesus Christ.
The church has served its local community and partnered with others
through its historic affiliation with the Southern Baptist Convention,
extending its influence of compassion-based ministries around the
world.
Throughout its history, the body of believers who make up the church
have been instrumental in founding and supporting many local ministries
in the Tampa Bay area. These ministries reach into every facet of human
experience.
Through partnerships with several community-based pregnancy centers,
members of the church provide resources and support to struggling
pregnant mothers and their unborn children, honoring the sanctity of
life. They provide clothing, food, and shelter to the homeless. The
church is faithful each day to honoring our veterans.
Calvary expresses the redemptive grace of our loving God by directly
supporting individuals transitioning out of prison as well as
recovering addicts. The support they provide to these individuals helps
restore dignity and purpose of life.
The church ministers in many ways to the young people of the
community through a vibrant in-house youth program as well as numerous
community outreach programs.
Calvary Christian High School opened its doors in the fall of 2000
with the goal of challenging all students to achieve academically to
the highest levels of their God-given abilities.
Another community outreach program provides school materials to
disadvantaged elementary students through the Adopt a Classroom
project. Supporting children and families is a central element of a
Christian lifestyle. It is central to the mission of Calvary Baptist
Church.
Internationally, Calvary provides financial and material resources
and hundreds of volunteers to support disaster relief and recovery
efforts worldwide.
Through medical mission trips, the church provides much-needed care
to communities in far reaches of the globe. With direct support and
through global partnerships, Calvary assists in community development
efforts throughout the world.
In short, Mr. Speaker, Calvary Baptist Church in Clearwater, Florida,
has become a part of the fabric of our Pinellas County community,
enriching the lives of its members and neighborhoods.
But far more important, Calvary continues each day to share the
message of the saving grace of the Christ in whom we put our faith and
in whom we put our trust.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me today in recognizing
Calvary Baptist Church of Clearwater, Florida, as it celebrates 150
magnificent years of ministry and service.
____________________