[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 25 (Thursday, February 11, 2016)]
[House]
[Page H713]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
HONORING THE SERVICE OF DOUG RICHARDSON
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. Jolly) for 5 minutes.
Mr. JOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize a gentleman who has
dedicated his life to serving our Nation, a true American hero from the
State of Florida, Mr. Doug Richardson. Mr. Richardson is retiring from
the United States Special Operations Command after 50 years of
government service.
Mr. Richardson currently serves as a defense intelligence senior
leader and as the program executive officer for Surveillance,
Reconnaissance, and Exploitation at USSOCOM. A West Point graduate, Mr.
Richardson distinguished himself throughout his military career,
retiring as a colonel from Active Duty in the United States Army in
1993 and then continuing his service to USSOCOM as a civilian.
Perhaps the best example of Doug's integrity and courage is recorded
in his Silver Star Medal citation, which was awarded to Doug for his
heroism in combat during the Vietnam war. On June 18, 1969, while
serving as an adviser with the 4th Cavalry Regiment of the Army of the
Republic of Vietnam, then-Captain Richardson accompanied a small
armored infantry team moving to break through a very determined enemy
force to rescue the crewmen of a downed United States Army helicopter.
As the unit approached the village, it came under intense rocket-
propelled grenade and automatic weapons fire from very well-concealed
positions. The area was also known to be heavily mined and set with
traps.
As the attempts of the Vietnamese to reach the helicopter were
continually repulsed by enemy counterattacks, Captain Richardson
dismounted his track, rallied a small force of Vietnamese soldiers, and
then led them to the helicopter through enemy fire, exhorting his
comrades to vigorously engage the enemy. Disregarding his personal
safety and armed with only a pistol, Captain Richardson led his men
through the mined area and into an assault on the enemy positions.
Following his example, the soldiers, though at a tactical
disadvantage, pressed the attack vigorously and ultimately broke the
resistance and secured the helicopter. Despite a hail of small-arms
fire and hand grenades directed at his position, Doug continued his
search for the survivors until he had found the remains of all U.S.
crewmembers and then remained to extract the bodies of his fallen
comrades from the wreckage. As a result of Captain Richardson's valiant
display of battlefield courage, the Vietnamese force was able to hold
the area from a tenacious enemy and return the fallen soldiers to
allied control.
Mr. Speaker, USSOCOM will miss Doug Richardson's leadership. As a
Nation, let us recognize his valiant service. I ask that this body join
me in honoring and congratulating Mr. Doug Richardson on a most
honorable and truly heroic career.
____________________