so breaking news right now in the aviation world boeing just won a monumental lawsuit that could potentially bring them several new contracts out of europe and a tremendous amount of money possibly for our state. join us right now, washington state senator maria cantwell, live from washington, dc to explain. senator, thanks for coming on. first, tell us exactly what this lawsuit is about. well, washingtonians are waking up to some very good news this morning because the world trade organization has ruled that european countries and airbus have been unfairly subsidizing their airplane development. why this is important is because now it is time for europe to stop doing that and we can use the teeth of this decision to make them do that. so we hope that they will come now in with a settlement. why this is important to us because we build great airplanes. but when you are financing them through the european union, you can lower the price for a final sale and that means competition for us. so if they, if we can force them to stop doing this, we will win in the marketplace because we build great planes. the 80,000 great workers who are building those planes will win the day and get more airplane sales. and do you have people an idea? we are talking about a lot of money here. 22 billion dollars. what is really amazing is that the wto said that their findings are that not only are these illegal subsidies to the tune of 22 billion that in the last few years the european union has done nothing to address this. they tried to get away with saying, oh, we are making changes. but this court decision basically said you have not been doing anything to minimize those impacts. so this is a big win for us in the northwest and the aerospace industry. and it will hopefully be communicating to all these airlines. you are not going to be able to buy cheap air bus planes in the future because they are illegally subsidizing them. so let us go and win in the marketplace with fair competition. what was your role in this process, senator? well, we have encouraged this administration and the previous administration to keep fighting this case. and basically say that these unfair subsidies by the european union and what has been termed as launch aid has distorted the marketplace. and i think we in the united states understand that when you have to go to commercial banking to get alone to finance plane development, you have to have the right feature set win in the marketplace. and we have tried to communicate to people that this kind of unfair subsidization by the hands have been allowing some countries around the globe to purchase cheaper planes than they should have been able to purchase. and why we fought for this decision is because we also want to send a message to all these new entrants like china and russia who think they are going to get away with subsidizing a cheap airplane and compete against us that there will be penalties for that. and so that is why we are going to continue to communicate and fight about this decision. if i am one of the tens of thousands of boeing employees in this state, i am wondering right now, what does this mean to me? well, a big cheer when up this morning because basically you are going to keep building a great plane and you are going to win in the marketplace because no one is going to be able to distort the market with cheap subsidies. and it is just very positive news for an aerospace manufacturer who is built a great product. they do not want to lose to somebody just because some other country is unfairly subsidized their plane. so this is very, very positive news for the aerospace workers. i think the market over time will respond and basically show that boeing does build and finance the best planes in the united states and around the world. senator maria cantwell, live from washington, d.c. at this morning. thank you, senator. we appreciate it. thank you.