i am maria cantwell from washington state and i am proud to be here with my colleague senator murray and senator roberts, my colleague from the house congressman dix. and i think we will be joined soon by congressman inzley and congressman t hart. well, congressman reiker. congressman reiker. and we are glad to be here with members of spia. it is a very important organization and i am glad to see that spia is well represented by women engineers as well. but the boeing employees make the best airplanes in the world and they also make the best military planes. and we are here today because the decision by the air force just does not add up. it just does not add up when it comes to fuel costs. the fact that the boeing plane is 24% more fuel efficient and over the life cycle of the plane, the boeing plane will save american taxpayers more dollars. the air force says it wants to build a more greener fuel efficient airplane industry for its fleet and yet it goes for a more expensive plane on fuel costs. the air force is half of the federal government's fuel costs. so this is a very important issue and the fact that they chose another plane over boeing just does not add up. it also does not add up that they have chosen a plane on the life cycle costs that do not include the expansion of various runways around the globe that will have to be lengthened if they pick the larger northrop government airbus plane. it just does not add up that somehow that could be cheaper to the american taxpayers when those airlines will have to be expanded and we will have to pay the cost. and it does not add up that the overall life cycle costs are not considered into these other issues of maintenance that my colleagues have already addressed. it is clear from the rfp that the cost of providing maintenance for the boeing plane is also cheaper. so we want answers. we want answers as to these life cycle costs and why these numbers just do not add up. we also want answers as this particular case is a very important issue for our trade enforcement laws. today we will be sending a letter, my colleague senator murray and senator roberts along with senator boccas, senator stabenow and other members of the finance committee to the president of the united states. telling him that this action of purchasing an airbus plane that is airbus airframe that is subsidized by the european government makes it very difficult for the united states to argue on enforcement issues on the issue that boeing has brought before the wto. the fact that they do not want to compete against government subsidized planes on the airframe that they have actually already beaten in the commercial marketplace now the federal government as they are trying to fight that wto case is going and purchasing that same airframe that has been subsidized. so we are sending a letter to the president telling him not to endanger the trade enforcement laws that we have by going ahead with this deal. so we are going to work hard to get answers for the taxpayers and as my colleagues have said to bring a war fighter to the men and women who are serving our country that they deserve.