thank you. thank you, grace. such a good year for us. and i am just thrilled to see so many rally watchton tony and diol. diol! i know that the role of paul and diol for a new research just as loud as you were as tough as minutes ago and letting no r-rest is going to be heard. i want to thank the senior reasons for giving county for hosting this convention and for winning spokane county for me in the last two weeks. i am so glad to have you here today. i thank you for that. i am counting on you and helping with christine gray or over the top to make sure we keep her as governor of the state of washington. we have so much to do and i know you today are focusing on that and tomorrow on the platform committee. we have a tough task of inviting our board, the ward, ward, link on the united nation, behind a democratic agenda that is going to put rock-a-bomb in the white house. the women's seniors are going back to our tried and true checklist for change. we want to say if you want to change the agenda in washington change, who is in charge of the white house and it will change the agenda to make sure our policies reflect that. we can have no care benefits and then close to employees for the benefit. it will go up 17% in the last several years and wages only 17%. but if you will let barack obama and president he will make sure we have universal health care for all people in the nation. and we can have a duet blue that is now being reported in the media where they have gone to the extent they are saying we are having news reports on survival kits, survival kits to try to survive by gasoline prices and high food costs. with a new democratic president, barack obama, we will make sure that we get our economy on track, we invest in health care and in education and a green energy economy to get up off the heels and an asset to you. and i can tell you this, i do want to see a strong democratic woman in the white house and that is why i am so glad that michelle obama will be the first lady. so i want to make my part. i can tell you i am going to make sure that every washington turns out for chris great war so she can focus on education and i am going to do my part to make sure that every american turns out so we can have a new democratic president. and i want to continue to do my part in washington, dc to focus on this issue of energy and the high price of gasoline. the people here in spokane county know that two years ago they have a distinction of having the highest gas price in the entire nation and no one could explain why. and now, dc river will process what economists say they have never even had a disruption of supply. and so just like with the end line, this senator is going to stay on the task until we have a chance to earn a million dollars and we will have a chance to earn a million dollars and we will have a chance to earn a million dollars. so i just want to give you a big hand for the bottom of my heart for moving so far as democrats. you know, i grew up in a democratic family and i used to go to conventions like this and when i was probably 12 or 13, my dad would just round up me and my friends and lock us in a hotel room and all of the other stuff, the bags, all the material, the bags. but i learned then that elections are about turnout. they are about convincing our friends and neighbors to go out and help change the forces of history. and in my race, you all were not so far. the last election and the previous election when we changed who represented washington state. and now all we have to do is put our shoulder to the wheel to make sure that we have the same fine and aggressive turnout in november to change the force of our country. so we would love today. i will see you on the campaign trail. and let us make sure we have a victory in november. thank you.