thank you so much for being here. really appreciate it. i am here. hi everybody. yeah, thanks for joining me for this chat. and this is an audience that i think that you know you can relate to and that you are familiar with. so what are, you know, to start with, what are some... it is a great turnout, jonathan. this is incredible. yes, yes, thank you. yes. so you come from the tech industry or perhaps you are most known for that, right? that you work at real networks. and what are some of the things that during your tenure there that as a successful executive there that you still take away and still is something that you think about as it relates to this community and what you do in government? well i am just amazed every single day about how seattle continues to grow as a center of vibrant technology development. and in the 90s when i was involved in real networks and things were, you know, the shocking acquisition of sprinet for hundreds of millions of dollars or i just saw mark cuban the other day and we were talking about his use of real networks technology and everything that is happened is that every year is still another surprising development about the growth of our region. and sometimes you get frustrated in the other washington about the lack of pace of innovation. but when you think about it, here we are in this great era now with so much content online from an audio and video perspective. and it really was just 1995 when real networks introduced the first, you know, basically that 14-4 die-lubs sound of a streaming media. in fact we used al gore because al gore was so monotone in his delivery that there was less packet loss. so people probably do not know that but the history of real networks, the first real time streaming audio clip was literally al gore talking. so anyway, i get frustrated some days about the fact that i feel like we should be moving faster and then you go online and you see how since 1995 until now, 2015, the huge transformation on online media content and what it has done to change opinions, change lives, add input to everybody. that is actually pretty fast when you think about it. yeah, that is right. and we are going to come back to some of those things in a minute in terms of the pace of innovation and how that could be sometimes not mesh with the other washington. so what do you think are some of the top issues as it relates to technology that confront this industry? is it issues around cybersecurity? is it issues around ip privacy? well, i always look at it because i see so much innovation out here today and i think what hinders the innovation. so for me when i was working in software, it was always about can you find the workforce? can you get them hired? can you ship your product in a time that allows you to compete because we are now in a global economy? i think these issues of immigration and education are still front and center in the debates. yes, we have to deal with these other issues, but i think making sure that we are skilling the workforce for tomorrow. i mean, me personally, i think we should have. i took latin and typing when i was in high school as a requirement. i think everybody should have one year of programming as a requirement for high school. yeah. it does not mean that you have to become a programmer, but if you are exposed to it just like i was exposed to typing, that we are all going to be better off by that. so i still think that education and allowing for a vibrant workforce here in the united states are key to us continuing to have the workforce that the entrepreneurs here in the audience need. yeah, that is right. that is good. so we are going to segue to a slightly different topic that i think that you can also relate to, which is that recently i made a public statement about how i will only move forward as an angel investor investing in startups that are where there is at least one female co-founder or a female ceo. and i have been thinking a lot about how those kinds of issues in the workplace have progressed in the last few decades. do you feel like that thing has progressed pretty far with regards to women in executive positions, particularly in the tech industry, or do you think that we are moving too slow? i think we need to move faster. that is for sure. and the question becomes, what can we do to incent more women to come into this field? and we see it at the k through 12 level of a lot more stem education. that is great. that is fantastic. but i almost think that i asked a chinese visitor to my office once, why are there so many chinese women engineers? and her response was, well, we have a saying in china, women hold up half the sky. and i thought, what a great statement that women were responsible for half the economic success. it was something i think that they looked forward to. and an mit graduate friend of mine was involved in microsoft for a long time said, well, maria, do not you know there is no statues to women in the united states? and i started thinking about that. and everybody said, what is a statue to a woman? people always say the statue of liberty as if that is a, you know, the, i am looking for women who have had success in science, engineering, math, and technology. and where are we propping them up so that other young women can aspire to that? and i feel like that is what is still missing for us to really, i think our education systems are trying to reach out. but i think we need to do more. right. you were to perhaps motivate or activate this particular audience to try to move that needle forward. what might you say to the folks here? well, i think they need to see, i think other women need to see the women and they need to see what they are doing. i think that will inspire them more. i cannot tell you how many men come up to me and say, can i introduce you to my daughter because i want her to see that our senator is a woman. and so it is the same thing. we need to show that there are women who are leading companies that are driving policy changes and technology that are working to invent great solutions and that they are out there. and i know melinda gates had a forum on how to reduce infant and child mortality rates and it was a award contest. and going to that event, i saw how many more of the applicants were women. they liked that particular application. they could relate to it. they wanted to produce a solution. so i do think it is a little bit also about the types of interests that women might have that might be a little different than some of the technologies that are out there today. but i think seeing the women, seeing them, thinking that they can do similar occupations is something that we just really have to figure out how to do that, how to put these women on the stage. that is great. certainly, as washington voters, many of us are very proud of your service for the state and for the country. i understand that about a year ago, i think, that you were the chair person of the committee for entrepreneurship and small business. and currently, you are also working on energy. and so perhaps tell us a little bit about your current work on the committee of energy. yeah. well, i should just say on the small business committee, the thing we learned, which we were shocked to find that women's small businesses were only getting about 4% of the access to capital from traditional lending. so we were shocked. we could not believe that this was actually the number. but what we found is sometimes women wanted smaller amounts of capital access to. they had different business ideas. and so when they were presenting these to some people, as you can imagine, they might not have been as educated on some of the solutions that the women were proposing, made me done. we have tried to fix that. now in energy, we are trying to do something which is to help take the next step and empowering consumers on this energy revolution that is happening with distributed generation. if everybody can now get into the energy business, whether it is having a smart car and using that as battery storage or putting a solar panel on your roof, how do you make sure that consumers are not overcharged or for connection fees or how they participate in lowering their own energy costs with the new advent of new solutions and clean energy and things like smart grid technology. i see. that is great. i am curious to know, what are the things that you do in your household to conserve energy? well, obviously being in back and forth across the continent a lot, you basically try to keep your energy usage low and being able to make sure that you are keeping it low. but i think the key thing is also trying to help in the transformation off of fossil fuels onto other energy sources. and so i have had a biodiesel car for a while and experimenting with that. but i really, what i think is now with so many companies in our state focusing on how to develop a smart grid and how to move energy around more efficiently, we are calling for an energy efficiency resource standard. and that would be to say at a national level, utility companies should try to reduce their energy production as opposed to just in that the cost of saving an electron is one third the cost of producing an electron. so this is where california has made a lot of great savings in reducing their energy just by coming up with smart ways. our laboratories here in the pacific northwest came up with a study out on the olympic peninsula. it showed that just by changing some consumer behavior on appliances and changing those appliances that you could have double digit savings in your energy use. so those are real savings to the consumer and those are the kinds of things that we think a more progressive energy bill would do for the united states. and i think because we are a little bit of marriage of cheap hydro and smart computing, we have had a lot of these companies develop here in the northwest and we want to see more of them continue. that is great, that is great. now of course i would be remiss. as you know that this is an audience, most tech people are very, very politically conscious and they keep up on the news and the campaign. i would be very remiss if i did not actually ask you for some of your views on a current campaign and perhaps i will put a fine point on a question which is that what might you do differently or the same as secretary clinton if you were able to influence her campaign? well i think she has to respond more rapidly. i think this is the age that we live in and i am sure that is a challenge. we in our office, even though we are not the most popular state, have the highest percentage of what is electronic male to our office. so we communicate with more people on electronic male than any other state. so we are proud of that because our constituents know how to communicate that way and obviously no one wants to send snail mail which takes forever and has to go through all these security things. so i think what any campaign today should be doing is trying to build out that network of instant communication because that is the era that we live in. it seems strange to think about nixon's five of the clock shadow and how in a tv age that was so detrimental. well i think in this information age if you are not going to respond rapidly to things it is going to be a challenge for you as a presidential candidate. and so i think that is what any candidate has to learn how to do because we just live in such a more connected space and time. yeah that is great, that is a great response and i see that we only have a couple of minutes left but is there any, i know time goes fast when you are having fun. so are there any sort of last remarks that you would like to communicate to this audience? well i would just say i know that there is big news today about cyber and this t-mobile situation and i know that the fbi and other people are in part of an investigation on that and we just had this visit from the chinese president and a cyber agreement which will help move towards saying that business attacks, the kind of attacks that might come on us soil against businesses and stealing of intellectual property that the chinese are going to pursue that. now that is a first for them saying they are going to pursue that. we have to hold them to it. we have to see but we need to move forward on an international regime on cyber security. but i also want us to look at china as an incredible market just on that issue i mentioned energy efficiency. their market opportunity is something like 2.4 trillion dollars. that is how much energy efficiency could be a winning solution. they right now are in the stage of development like buildings and things of that nature where they are very inefficient and again the kind of technology solutions we produce would be a big economic opportunity for the future. so i hope that the northwest will continue to innovate in that area. that is great. that is fantastic. senator, i want to give you my heartfelt appreciation for not only taking time away from your busy schedule to meet with us but also being so intellectually agile to be able to go with the flow in terms of how we are doing this today. so i really appreciate it. i just want to say i know that i come from just being a dc and i like to say in that washington they like to regulate but in our washington we like to innovate. so thank you for continuing to innovate in jonathan. thank you for geekwire and for another fantastic conference. thank you so much. yeah. great job. thanks. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you.