[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 13 (Wednesday, January 24, 2024)]
[Senate]
[Pages S236-S237]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Gaza
Mr. SANDERS. Madam President, I would like to say a few words about
the urgent humanitarian catastrophe now unfolding in Gaza. The reason I
want to do that is I just have the feeling that most people--maybe here
in the Senate and throughout the country--are just not aware of how
severe the situation has become.
My staff and I have had a number of conversations in recent days with
the United Nations, the World Food Programme, and other humanitarian
actors struggling to deal with the horrors unfolding in Gaza. Here is
the bottom line: The coming weeks could mean the difference between
life and death for tens of thousands of people. If we do not see a
dramatic improvement in humanitarian access very soon, countless
innocent people, including thousands of children, could die of
dehydration, diarrhea, preventable diseases, and starvation. The World
Health Organization predicts that the number of deaths from sickness
and starvation could exceed the 25,000 people who died from Israeli
bombs.
Let's be clear: What is going on in Gaza today is a man-made crisis.
This is not a natural disaster. This is not climate change. This is a
man-made crisis taking place right now, and it is the direct result of
choices made by political leaders--none more than Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the leader of Israel's extreme rightwing
government.
We all know that Hamas--a terrorist organization--began this war with
its horrific attack on October 7, which killed 1,200 innocent Israeli
men, women, and children, and took more than 200 hostages. Israel, in
my view, had the right to respond to that attack and go after Hamas,
but it did not and does not have the right to go after the entire
Palestinian people, which is exactly what is happening right now.
Let me try to provide a picture, a snapshot, of what life in Gaza is
like today. More than 25,000 Palestinians have been killed in this war
so far--and, remember, the population of Gaza is just a bit over 2
million--25,000 are dead already; 62,000 have been wounded. And 70
percent of the dead are women and children--70 percent of the dead are
women and children. At least 210 Palestinians have been killed in the
last 24 hours. Overall, 152 United Nations aid workers have been killed
so far--more U.N. losses than in any previous war.
When we look at what is going on in Gaza now, we must understand that
1.7 million people have been driven from their homes--85 percent of the
entire population of Gaza. Imagine that: 85 percent of the population
removed from their homes. Then, as a result of Israeli bombardment, 70
percent of the housing units have been damaged or destroyed--an
unprecedented level of destruction.
Most of Gaza's critical infrastructure has been destroyed or made
inoperable, including many water wells, bakeries, powerplants,
hospitals, and sewage treatment facilities.
Importantly, much of the area has been without cell phone service for
weeks, making communication very difficult. How do you know what is
going on, how do you know what kind of bombing may be taking place if
you don't have a cell phone that is working?
The fighting and Israeli restrictions have made it nearly impossible
for food, water, fuel, and medical supplies to enter Gaza. Water is
scarce, and what little is available is often contaminated. Children
are drinking very polluted water. Public wells are operating at just
10-percent capacity, and just one of three water pipelines into Gaza is
functioning.
For several months now, children in southern Gaza are surviving on
just 1\1/2\ or 2 liters of water per day--far, far below what is
needed. And that is in the area where the U.N. can reach. The situation
is worse elsewhere.
The lack of clean drinking water is leading to a spike in water-borne
diseases and diarrhea--a very serious condition which accounts for
nearly 10 percent of all deaths among children under the age of 5
worldwide. In Gaza, the U.N. reports 158,000 cases--more than half
among children under the age of 5--a 4,000-percent increase in diarrhea
from before the war began.
We have heard from humanitarian groups last week that they fear many
thousands of children will die from diarrhea before they starve to
death. What a horrible reality we are looking at in Gaza right now.
Hunger and starvation are widespread. Before the war, Gaza had 97
bakeries producing the bread and other basics that people need. Right
now, just 15 of those bakeries are operating, and none are functioning
in the north, closed by the combination of airstrikes and a lack of
fuel and flour.
Hundreds of thousands of children go to bed hungry every night. We
have all seen the scenes of desperate people mobbing the few U.N.
relief trucks that can reach beyond the border crossing. They see food
coming, and they mob those trucks.
Right now, the United Nations says that 570,000 people in Gaza,
including small kids, are currently facing ``catastrophic hunger''--
that is their definition--which is equivalent to famine. This is the
most severe category of starvation, but the U.N. reports that ``the
entire population of Gaza--roughly 2.2 million people--are in crisis or
worse levels of acute food insecurity.'' In other words, virtually
every household is regularly skipping meals, and most are down to a
single meal a day; often, just bread.
Experts tell us that infants and young people will succumb first to
hunger. Without enough food and with no clean water to make formula,
their vital organs will begin to shut down. Many will die of infection
before they reach that point.
I have difficulty, on a personal level, even using the technical term
for this stage. The technical term is ``child wasting.'' I find that
term absolutely horrific. Yet that is what we are watching unfold in
slow motion as the world looks on: children starving, drinking polluted
water, suffering from dehydration, getting sick, and slowly dying.
In the midst of all of this, Gaza's healthcare system is under
tremendous strain. Faced with over 87,000 casualties--figures that
would overwhelm the
[[Page S237]]
most sophisticated health system in the world--health workers there
have worked to save lives amid frequent bombardment in overcrowded
hospitals without electricity or adequate fuel or medicine. And in the
midst of all of this, over 300 health workers have been killed.
The lack of basic necessities and overcrowded conditions are
contributing to a dramatic increase in disease, and 10 percent of the
population now has acute respiratory infections. Those with long-term
medical conditions that require advanced treatment have little hope of
receiving adequate care.
Amidst this devastation, approximately 180 women give birth in Gaza
every day, facing unbelievable dangers and completely inadequate
medical care. Without enough food or clean water, let alone necessary
medications and antibiotics, many of these women face serious
complications, and their children will bear lifelong scars from this
war.
That is just a bit of the story in terms of what is happening in Gaza
right now--a story that we cannot continue to ignore.
Let me say a word about why this is happening, about what the
immediate causes of this humanitarian disaster are. The answer is not
complicated. At every step of the way, the Israeli Government has
failed to provide even the most basic protections to civilians. Every
humanitarian move has been extracted only after weeks of delay and
outside pressure from the United States and others.
The result of all of this is that today, just 20 to 30 percent of
what is needed in humanitarian aid is being brought into Gaza. There is
not enough food. There is not enough water. There are not enough
medical supplies. There is not enough fuel.
Onerous Israeli border inspections are a major cause of this crisis.
Today, there is a 3- to 4-week wait for trucks to get into Gaza, while
children are starving. Many trucks are unloaded and reloaded numerous
times, often to be searched for the same items.
It is understandable that Israel wants to ensure that no weapons are
reaching Hamas. We all understand that. But senior U.S. officials tell
us that they have seen no evidence of Hamas theft or diversion of U.N.
aid. Meanwhile, Israel is rejecting things like tent poles, feminine
hygiene kits, hand sanitizers, water testing kits, and medical
supplies. If a single item in a truck is rejected, then the whole truck
has to go back to the start of the process, causing enormous delays.
Kerem Shalom crossing, the main entry point equipped to process trucks
in large numbers, is only open 8 hours a day.
I want to thank our colleagues Senator Van Hollen and Senator Merkley
for their courage in going to the Egyptian-Gaza border and coming back
here and reporting to us their personal observations of the crisis
there.
It is hard to see this process and not conclude that what is taking
place is a deliberate effort to slow humanitarian aid. Sure enough,
just last week, Prime Minister Netanyahu said that Israel is only
allowing in the absolute minimum amount necessary.
When trucks do eventually get across the border, they face a whole
new set of problems. Israel is bombing targets across Gaza, and its
ground forces are fighting across much of the enclave and have closed
many major roads. For aid trucks to move safely and avoid being bombed
or shot, every movement must be cleared with the Israeli Defense
Forces.
This deconfliction process has repeatedly failed. Even when notified,
Israel has sometimes hit aid convoys. Medical facilities and
humanitarian shelters cleared with Israelis have been struck numerous
times. Tragically, the first half of January actually saw a
deterioration in humanitarian access. In that period, Israel denied 95
percent of U.N. attempts to bring fuel and medicines to water wells and
health facilities in north Gaza.
Netanyahu's rightwing government is starving the Palestinian people.
On top of its indiscriminate bombardment, Israel is imposing onerous
restrictions that are blocking the delivery of essential humanitarian
aid.
All of this is unacceptable. We are running out of time as we face
one of the most severe humanitarian catastrophes of recent times.
This should not be seen as just a terrible crisis taking place many
thousands of miles away from our shores. This is a tragedy in which we,
the United States of America, are complicit.
Much of what is happening right now is being done with U.S. arms and
military equipment. In other words, whether we like it or not, the
United States is complicit in the nightmare that millions of
Palestinians are now experiencing.
In my view, Israel must take urgent steps immediately to open up
humanitarian access. The water pipelines must be rapidly repaired and
reopened. More border crossings, including in the north, must be
opened. Inspections must be streamlined and sped up. Deconfliction of
aid deliveries must be prioritized. And Israel must stop blocking
essential humanitarian supplies.
These are not new issues. These are concerns that have been
repeatedly communicated to the Israeli Government for months by the
United States, by the U.N., and, in fact, by the global community. But
the Israeli Government has refused--refused--to take these steps.
This has got to change now. Tens of thousands of lives hang in the
balance. If we care about human rights and if we believe in the dignity
of every human life, as we so often profess, we cannot allow this
gruesome and horrible situation to continue. This is an urgent,
unspeakable crisis. Every day matters, and we must act and act now.
Israel is not doing what is needed, despite the repeated pleas of the
U.S. Government and the President of the United States. That is why, in
my view, we need to use every tool at our disposal to make Netanyahu
change the direction he has taken.
As part of that effort, last week, the Senate voted on what I
consider to be a very modest step, a resolution requiring the State
Department to report on any human rights violations that may have
occurred in Israel's military campaign in Gaza. The resolution was
based on longstanding U.S. law requiring that any security assistance
or military equipment provided to any country be used in line with
internationally recognized human rights. That is what that resolution
was about.
This is not a radical idea: making sure that the weapons we supply
any country are used consistent with American law and international
law. Yet just 11 U.S. Senators voted for that resolution.
We cannot continue turning a blind eye to the suffering in Gaza and
the humanitarian catastrophe that is unfolding there. We cannot
continue to ignore the fact that it has been American bombs and
military equipment that has helped create this crisis.
Given the scale of the disaster, how could any Member of the Senate
tell us that they do not want to know how billions in U.S. military aid
is being used? How can we not want to have that very simple
information?
My colleagues and I will continue to push for this information, which
is absolutely necessary for Congress to conduct its oversight duties.
But in addition to getting answers, I believe the United States must
use all of our leverage to end this horrific war. And the primary
leverage that we have over the Israeli Government is the billions of
dollars in military aid we provide to them every year and the $14
billion being proposed for Israel in the supplemental budget.
Madam President, in my view, we must loudly and clearly say no to
Netanyahu's indiscriminate bombing, no to this manmade humanitarian
catastrophe, and no to the unprecedented level of human suffering that
is taking place in Gaza now. We must use our leverage to demand an end
to the bombing, a humanitarian ceasefire to allow aid to flow to those
who are suffering, and to secure the release of the more than 130
hostages still being held in Gaza. We must also demand that the Israeli
Government begin the necessary work to lay the groundwork for a two-
state solution.
Bottom line: There is a horrific catastrophe taking place right now.
We cannot continue to ignore it. We must act.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. Cortez Masto). The Senator from Rhode
Island.