if moscow would some florida for five minutes. mr. chairman, thank you. breaking news, federal government has too much red tape. here we go again. not a serious hearing and actually looking at specific government regulation and red tape. look at the name, look at the name of this hearing. it does not say executive branch red tape or federal government red tape. it is titled the biden administration campaign to barry america in red tape. this, this is their hearing. literally, just red tape with joe biden's name written on it. just make it real simple for people. that is the point of this hearing. it is not about solving problems. it is about red painter's tape with joe biden's name written on it. look what joe biden has done. look, it is right there. here's the proof. mr. katzen, serious question. was red tape invented by joe biden? yes, sir. okay, good. my colleagues across the aisle used to be the party of smaller government and i wish they still had credibility in wanting to shrink the size of government. they want more government now. government in women's bodies, government in the bedroom, government in the library, government in corporate investments, government in disney world. and all we want to do is go back to trump. i mean, every hearing, it is like, oh, just, if we could just go back to trump, we could go back to what trump did. the loser of the 2020 election, the loser of the georgia senate races, the loser of the 2018 midterms. by the way, just to jog your memory, the trump administration finalized more federal rules in the last year of its administration than any other final year of any presidency in american history. more than obama. i know it is inconvenient timing, but perhaps we actually need more regulation with presidents taking nuclear codes and cuddling with them and showering with them in their homes. you know, i want to answer the representative's question on atf and pistol braces. has that ever happened before? well, in fact, yes. it happened on the trump administration. with trump's atf, they banned bump stocks. bump stocks were legal. and then they were not. the trump administration's atf did that. by the way, good decision. people should not be able to turn guns into automatic weapons. let us not forget that some of our colleagues, you know, went on camera when sasha barron cohen got in their office and said that they think kindergartners should have guns. we heard that this is all about big corporations, that big corporations now like regulation. well, by the way, just a little public service announcement. if you are mad at big corporations, you do not have to take their money anymore. that is not like a mandatory thing. by the way, professor mulligan, you brought up operation warp speed. i just want to give you an update on that. some of our colleagues across the aisle now do not believe that deregulation was very good. they have soured on the deregulation of operation warp speed and actually believe that that led to bad outcomes. i do not agree, but i just wanted you to have that update. if you can follow the rhetoric coming from that side of the chamber. we heard about the marketplace. let the marketplace decide these decisions. really? we had a whole hearing on esg. that was the marketplace talking. nope, they did not like it. government regulation, we got a ban it. they want a ban it more regulation because they did not like what the marketplace had to say. listen, regulations are hurting small businesses. they are. let us actually work together and solve that problem. paperwork for a mortgage is too burdensome. let us make that easier. that should be the point of this hearing. how can we help the american people? how can we reduce regulation? let us talk about specific ideas that we can do that together. no one here believes that we do not have enough regulation. no, there are things that we could reduce things to make it easier for the american people. by the way, we are going to have to remove red tape and shrink bureaucracy. if we want to compete with china, we are going to have to do those things. but maybe congress should work again. you are mad about all the rulemaking and the executive branch. it is because this place stopped lawmaking. we do not make laws here anymore because we are too busy doing this. i yield back.