meanwhile, the house rules committee voted yesterday to advance a bipartisan bill that would codify the international holocaust remembrance alliance's definition of anti-semitism into titles 6 of the 1964 civil rights act. the legislation is being led by republican congressman mike lawler of new york, who joins us now along with democratic congressman jared mosquitz of florida. he is the co-sponsor of the bill. gentlemen, thank you for being on this morning. congressman lawler, i would like to start with you to tell us more about the bill and what you hope to accomplish with this in a bipartisan effort. well, i think, biko, what we are seeing on college campuses right now is a failure to act and a failure to lead. and part of the problem is the lack of a very clear definition of anti-semitism. and so what this bill would do is force the department of education to adopt the ira working definition and its contemporary examples for all of its title 6 discrimination enforcement cases. and i think defining it very clearly and forcing these schools to act is critically important in this moment. and so congressman mosquitz explained how it would define it and how it could change the game as to what is happening on college campuses. where is the ambiguity here? because a lot of us do not see any ambiguity on hatred. no, thanks, mika and joe and morning joe. and thank you for having us and talking about this issue. no, listen, it is going to give obviously more teeth to the federal government to enforce their rules and regulations. it is going to give more teeth to universities and colleges across the country. i mean, this is as the president of us said in the beginning of that statement, this is not complicated, right? what we are seeing is we are seeing universities complicated by failing to lead and protect our students, failing to enforce their code of conduct book, taking options off the table giving all the power to the protesters. listen, i have been to columbia. i have talked to jewish students. i have talked to the parents. and while there are peaceful protesters, while we do not want to lose sight, obviously, of the plight of the people in gaza, it is a real war and it is terrible what is happening to the people in gaza. make no mistake about it. there is a tremendous amount of anti-semitism on what is going on on these college campuses. we have members in this body pouring gasoline on that by saying jews fall into two buckets, progenocide and anti-genocide. i got a 10-year-old and seven-year-old jewish children. i do not know if they are progenocide or anti-genocide. i guess i will talk to them about that. and so this is what is going on. i remember, i remember when charlottesville happened. it was universal condemnation and the people who tried to ignore that or explain it away or say it is not everybody. we condemn those people, but here for some reason when it is jews go back to poland, bomb, telev, all of a sudden it is peaceful. congressman lawler, how do you explain that double standard? i mean, some of this little we are hearing is not even coded. it is not even in you window. it is just explicit calls for anti-semitic activity, behavior, and violence. so why are the universities handling these protests, unlike they would any other if it were another group of people being targeted? well, we know very clearly if this was a protest against black people, if this was a protest against gay people, if this was a protest against immigrants, it would be very clearly condemned and rightfully so, and it would be stopped immediately. for some reason, under the guise of the conflict between israel and palestine, it is okay for these protests to occur, despite the fact that the rhetoric is oozing in anti-semitism. when you are channing from the river to the sea, palestine will be free. we know exactly what you are calling for. you are calling for the eradication of the state of israel. i want the palestinian people to be free too, from their oppressors. their oppressor is hamas, a terrorist organization that uses innocent palestinian civilians as human shields. you know, in 1969, father hesberg, the president of notre dame, sent a letter to the faculty and the students. and in some and some sense, he said, you have a right to protest, but the moment that protest turns violent, either physically or verbally, you will have 15 minutes to cease and desist. if you do not cease and desist, within 15 minutes, we will ask for your id card. upon presentation of the id card, you will be suspended. if you do not have an id card, you will be arrested. if you still stay within five minutes after that, you will be expelled and arrested. this is what needs to happen. this participation trophy generation needs to be told no. enough is enough, and these administrators who are allowing this anti-semitism to occur on their campuses need to be held accountable. and that is why last week, when i met with president shafiq at columbia university, i demanded her resignation. she has lost control of her campus and cannot ensure the safety and security of every student, but especially jewish students who are under attack right now. you know, it is interesting, jonathan amir, we have sat through some tumultuous times over the last four years, five years. and it is really interesting, even beyond that, is the congressman said, after charlottesville, and people saying, no, no, they are good people on both sides, universal condemnation. here is chance going on and on from the river to the sea. and people talking about genocide and holding up signs, it is talking about the final solution. they will say, we are getting a lot of correspondence from people, they are saying, yeah, we understand that. just look through there. the good people on both sides. just look through there. people on both sides. just ignore the genocidal hatred towards jews and look at these other people in what they are trying to do. it is interesting how they want college administrators and jewish students to sort through genocidal chance as they go to class and be fine with it because it is part of a bigger cause. and i will say also, as micah said on january, you know, looked at that, it looked a lot like january the 6th. that was game set match for most of the people, for us and also for people in the center and a lot of people on the left. now it seems that there are some people that are celebrating this as an act of, you know, civil disobedience instead of just the raw vandalism and criminal activity that it is. and again, even saying that people go, oh, you do not understand what is going on. oh, there is a bigger cause. no, no. if there is a bigger cause than as we said after january the 6th, let us talk about it, let us debate about it, let us do it through democratic means, through peaceful means, let us move towards a peaceful solution. and suddenly the people that were so offended about january 6th rightly and so offended about what donald trump said after charlottesville rightly or saying, yeah, yeah, but this is complicated. let us sort through all of this. this is, no, it is really, it is just not complicated. yeah, we understand cause we have been talking about the suffering and gaza of the civilians. we understand because we have been talking about illegal settlements on the west bank. we understand why palestinians would be upset about this and why they would want this issue to be front and center. but there are people that are breaking the law, that are breaking codes on campuses that are committing crimes. and i do not think administrators should say, yeah, well, let us sort through this and maybe the crimes are not so bad. maybe the ends justify the mains. no, they, they, they did not on january the 6th, they do not hear. and it speaks sadly to how fractured and tribal we are right now because you are right. january 6th initially immediately met with combination. it is not anymore. a lot of republicans defend it. the rnc, the legitimate political discourse. donald trump, of course, stands with the, what he calls, hostages, those who were locked up and even sings with their choir. and obviously now we have, as you say, this should be black and white. there is a place for peaceful protest. there is not a place for some of the violence and horrible rhetoric that is coming with some of these demonstrations. congressman mosquets, i just want to ask you a chance to respond. there has been some pushback to this proposal from both, some from both the right and the left suggesting that it does curtail on free speech. does it curtail in the first amendment? constitiously protected speech is what congressman nadler called it. just want to get your, your response to what they are saying. well, look, you know, this is a piece of legislation. you could always find a period or a comma that you are unhappy with and find a reason to vote against it. we have had multiple anti-semitism resolutions coming to the floor before. we had 75 democrats vote present at one point against an anti-semitism resolution. and so, look, there are different factions amongst my colleagues. but let us not lose sight of what is going on in the streets of america right now. and there is a double standard. jews do not fall into this little box in how we have figured out who is a minority, who is not a minority, who deserves protection, who does not deserve protection. right? and you are seeing it. you are seeing jewish students surrounded on campus not being allowed to move. jewish students not being allowed to go into a building. jewish students not being allowed to take a test in their classroom, having to do it virtually. jewish students being singled out because they are jewish, not because of some israeli foreign policy. and you have folks in my party, right, who now want to pretend like it is not happening. they want to silence it. oh, there is a justification for the protest. let us be clear. we are not, jews are not saying that you cannot be critical of israeli government without being anti-semitic. i think you can be critical of a country about israel without being anti-semitic. the problem is they are not, they are showing us they are not. they are the ones conflating the issue. these students are conflating the issue. go back to 1948. go back to poland. all zionists should die. the leader, one of the leaders of that movement in colombia. they are literally telling us exactly how they feel. and we do not want to listen. okay. what is happening in gaza is a separate issue. what is happening on college campuses is rooted in anti-semitism. can i just add, and you know, jared and i yesterday went to the nova exhibition in lower manhattan. and you saw the result of this level of hatred that is being taught. that was taught in schools in gaza and that is being taught on schools here in america. we saw hundreds of innocent civilians killed simply because they were jewish and attended a music festival. and what these children on this campus is are doing. they are embracing the rhetoric and the ideology of hamas, a terrorist organization. this is not a free speech issue. this is embracing hatred. and i do not care whether it was in charlottesville, whether it is in the holes of the capitol, whether it is on these college campuses. drets of violence or violence of any kind is wrong. and it needs to be not only universally condemned, it needs to be prosecuted. and where are the students, mika and joe, who want to give the palestinians more rights, want to help the people in gaza? where are the students that are part of that movement saying the folks chanting bomb tel aviv are not with us. the folks saying go back to poland are not with us. the folks that are saying they want to eliminate the state of israel are not with us. i have not seen that student. and so one has to wonder why we have not seen those students saying do not mess up our movement. we are not seeing that. we are seeing the embrace of it. not only that, we are seeing members of congress go and embrace these students. there is the very ones that are saying death to zionism, death to people who are zionist. and with all the respects of my colleague jerry nadler, he was a co-sponsor of this bill in the 115th congress. so i do not know why he is somehow changed his opinion on this now. but the reality is we need to define anti-semitism and we need to enforce the law, period. i do not think there is a debate on those two things or there should not be one at least. thank you so much for coming on the show this morning. democratic congressman jared moskowitz and republican congressman mike lawler, thank you both very, very much for coming on this morning. you are not going to be going back to your conversation. there is something else. thank you guys so much.