BATON ROUGE –
U.S. Senator Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA) spoke at the Federal Outreach Tour for the Louisiana Association of Business and Industry (LABI) this morning to discuss what he’s doing in Washington to help create jobs, support small businesses, and expand Louisiana’s economy.
“We want Louisiana to be a place where young people move to,”
said Dr. Cassidy.
“We already have the best food in the world, so that means making life affordable and creating high-paying jobs. Thanks to my work with President Trump and our local business owners, this is all happening.”
In July, Cassidy
joined
President Trump to support the Working Families Tax Cut Act. That legislation made permanent the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 and cut taxes on tips, overtime, and Social Security. The legislation also provided tax deductions for oil and gas exploration and required no less than two lease sales every year for 15 years in the central and western areas of the Gulf of America.
Additionally in October, Cassidy
headlined
the American Council for Capital Formation Energy Summit in New Orleans, to discuss using Louisiana’s energy resources to boost U.S. manufacturing and help America remain energy independent. Cassidy has also
introduced
legislation to strengthen power grids,
increase
oil and gas lease sales in the Gulf, and
protect
permitting applications from frivolous lawsuits.
Attending the event were leaders across Louisiana’s business community. Cassidy was also welcomed by Mr. Will Green, President and CEO of LABI.
“The Louisiana Association of Business and Industry appreciates Senator Cassidy taking the time to brief our members on the key issues and priorities shaping the business and policy landscape of Washington, D.C.,”
said President Green.
“His insight into federal energy, infrastructure and economic competitiveness helps inform LABI’s efforts to advance initiatives that strengthen Louisiana’s economy and support job creation across all sectors.”
###
Print
Email
Share
Share
Prev
Previous Article
Next Article
Next