METAIRIE –
Today, U.S. Senator Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA) visited the Shops at Jax Brewery in New Orleans to acknowledge a plaque unveiled in his honor thanking him for his support of the Historic Tax Credit (HTC). Thanks to that credit, they were able to renovate its building in 2024, supporting over 400 jobs.
“Across New Orleans, old landmarks are finding new life as condos, restaurants, and attractions thanks to the Historic Tax Credit,”
said Dr. Cassidy.
“Let’s preserve our past as we build to a better future.”
Originally, Jax Brewery opened in 1890 to brew Jax Beer, and at its height was the largest brewery in the southern United States. The brewery closed in 1974 but was later reopened as a shopping center and is one of many buildings in New Orleans which have benefitted from the HTC, including the Hibernia Bank Building and locations across the Warehouse District.
The HTC was originally struck by the U.S. House of Representatives when they passed their version of the TCJA. However, thanks to Cassidy’s efforts, the credit was preserved in the Senate version of the TCJA and ultimately signed into law.
Cassidy was joined by several dignitaries, including from The Berger Company, which renovated the building. He was also welcomed by Mr. Albert Rex, Chair of the Historic Tax Credit Coalition.
“Senator Bill Cassidy has been an extraordinary champion of the federal historic tax credit,”
said Mr. Rex.
“Without his leadership in 2017, the credit would have been eliminated in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Thanks to his efforts, more than 6,700 historic rehabilitation projects have been approved nationwide since then, generating over $41 billion in investment. In Louisiana, alone, more than 600 projects have driven $1.7 billion in private investment. Senator Cassidy continues to work tirelessly to strengthen this critical program, encouraging reinvestment in our communities and preserving America’s historic heritage.”
Mr. Rex added
, “this plaque will serve as a permanent reminder of Senator Cassidy’s work, not just in New Orleans where the credit has been so valuable, but across Louisiana and the nation. We look forward to continuing to work with Senator Cassidy to improve the credit so more buildings and communities can benefit from this important program.”
###
Print
Email
Share
Share
Prev
Previous Article
Next Article
Next