WASHINGTON –
U.S. Senator Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA), U.S. Representative Clay Higgins (R-LA-03), Senator John Kennedy (R-LA), and Speaker Mike Johnson (R-LA-04) expressed strong support for McNeese University’s request to establish a Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) program.
“We extend our support for McNeese State University’s application to participate in the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (Naval ROTC) program. Assigning a Naval ROTC program to McNeese would expand its academic offerings, enhance student life experiences, and align the University with becoming even more military-friendly for active service members, Veterans, and their families,”
wrote the members.
“With its proximity to the Gulf of America, many of the nation’s top ports, and the burgeoning home of Navy autonomous vessels, McNeese would be an excellent location for future naval officers,”
continued the members.
Read the full letter
here
or below:
Secretary Phelan,
We extend our support for McNeese State University’s application to participate in the Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps (Naval ROTC) program. Assigning a Naval ROTC program to McNeese would expand its academic offerings, enhance student life experiences, and align the University with becoming even more military-friendly for active service members, Veterans, and their families.
With its proximity to the Gulf of America, many of the nation’s top ports, and the burgeoning home of Navy autonomous vessels, McNeese would be an excellent location for future naval officers. The University maintains highly successful Engineering and Computer Science programs and is experiencing an upward trend in enrollment due to its rigorous academic curriculum and value-based organizations. McNeese State University is already committed to these students and the Navy, identifying campus buildings and facilities for the program.
Louisiana has a storied history in supporting our nation’s defense and providing exemplary servicemen and women. McNeese is prepared to invest in this effort and capitalize on its students’ desire to serve our country. A Naval ROTC program would solidify this pathway.
We appreciate your attention to this matter and respectfully request your full and fair consideration of McNeese State University for a Naval ROTC program.
###
Print
Email
Share
Share
Prev
Previous Article
Next Article
Next