WASHINGTON –
U.S. Senator Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA), for his monthly Local Spotlight, highlighted Katie Jenkins, owner of STIR Coffee in Baton Rouge, who primarily employs Louisianans with cognitive disabilities. By providing good jobs for people who may otherwise face barriers to employment, Katie is improving life for those she employs and setting a positive example for businesses across the country. Each month, Cassidy highlights a local story that truly reflects Louisiana values of humility, respect, and resiliency.
Read his full November 2025 Local Spotlight below:
A big shoutout to Katie Jenkins, owner of STIR Coffee in Baton Rouge—a café that primarily employs people with disabilities.
For someone with cognitive differences, whether from birth or trauma, finding a job can be hard.
And many want to work but are never given a chance.
Perhaps the best thing about STIR Coffee is the brewing sense of hope so many of their employees feel—expanding their expertise, sharpening their skills, and staying involved in a community despite the challenges they face.
Every American—including those with disabilities—deserves the freedom to work and reach their fullest potential.
Katie, a real shoutout, applauding you for starting a business that improves the life of people in our community in such a heartwarming way.
You set out to make a difference, and drip by drip—and, in all seriousness—person by person, you are succeeding!
Keep making Louisiana and our world a better place!
Background
In October, Cassidy
recognized
St. Bernard Parish firefighter, Andrew Nixon, for saving a woman’s life while off-duty seconds before her car was engulfed in flames following a collision with an 18-wheeler. Andrew was on his way home from a wedding with his fiancée when he pulled the young woman from her vehicle and carried her to safety. The 23-year-old firefighter reflects on the experience as a full-circle moment—drawing strength from the memory of his niece, Everleigh, whose tragic passing continues to inspire his commitment to protect others.
###
Print
Email
Share
Share
Prev
Previous Article
Next Article
Next