$ press releases $ in the news $ editorial reps. kim, beatty introduce resolution recognizing october as national financial planning month nov 21, 2025 | press releases washington, dc – today, u.s. representatives young kim (ca-40) and joyce beatty (oh-03), co-chairs of the bipartisan financial literacy & wealth creation caucus, introduced a resolution to... rep young kim leads bill to support first responders, help prevent wildfires nov 18, 2025 | press releases washington, dc – today, u.s. representative young kim (ca-40) introduced the bipartisan, bicameral fire innovation unit act with representative jason crow (co-06) and senators ben ray luján (nm) and... rep young kim votes to release the epstein files nov 18, 2025 | press releases today, rep. young kim (ca-40) put out the following statement on her vote to release the epstein files. “the american people deserve full transparency, and victims deserve justice,” said rep. young... rep. young kim votes to open the government for the american people nov 13, 2025 | press releases washington, dc—today, congresswoman young kim released the following statement about her vote to end the democratic-driven shutdown and open up the united states government for the american people.... rep. young kim leads bipartisan bill to hold north korea accountable, uplift north korean people nov 7, 2025 | press releases washington, dc — today, house foreign affairs subcommittee on east asia and the pacific chairwoman young kim (ca-40) and ranking member ami bera (ca-06) introduced the north korean human rights... rep. young kim slams snap fraud, demands newsom ensure benefits reach californians in need nov 6, 2025 | press releases today, congresswoman young kim (ca-40) sent a letter to gavin newsom demanding a thorough investigation into fraud in california’s supplemental nutrition assistance program (snap), known as... reps. kim, lawler, beatty push to expand investment in main street nov 6, 2025 | press releases today, reps. young kim (ca-40), mike lawler (ny-17), and joyce beatty (oh-03) introduced the community investment and prosperity act to expand banks' ability to make community investments that... california republican house delegation calls on gov. newsom to reverse devastating energy policies oct 30, 2025 | press releases today, the california republican house delegation released the following statement on the negative impacts of gov. gavin newsom’s energy policies: “california families and small businesses are... 100+ republicans join kim, crapo in support of cdfi fund oct 24, 2025 | press releases washington, dc – yesterday, u.s. congresswoman young kim (ca-40) and senator mike crapo (r-idaho) led a bicameral letter to treasury secretary scott bessent and office of management and budget... orange county veterans cemetery ranked as a top priority for fy26 oct 2, 2025 | press releases today, u.s. representative young kim (ca-40) released the following statement after the department of veterans affairs (va) ranked gypsum canyon on the veterans cemetery grants program (vcgp)... rep. young kim condemns senseless government shutdown oct 1, 2025 | press releases washington, dc – today, u.s. representative young kim (ca-40) released the following statement after government funding for fiscal year 2025 ran out, causing a federal government... rep. kim leads bill to power u.s. energy independence sep 26, 2025 | press releases washington, dc – today, u.s. representatives young kim (ca-40) and adam gray (ca-13) introduced the bipartisan heats act to reduce burdensome permitting delays on geothermal projects and help expand... rep. young kim introduces bipartisan resolution to promote children’s emotional wellness sep 23, 2025 | press releases washington, dc – today, u.s. representatives young kim (ca-40) and bonnie watson coleman (nj-12) introduced a bipartisan resolution to recognize september as national children’s emotional wellness... rep. young kim votes to avoid costly government shutdown sep 19, 2025 | press releases washington, dc – today, u.s. representative young kim (ca-40) voted in favor of the continuing appropriations and extensions act of 2026 to temporarily extend government funding and avoid a costly... rep. kim secures bipartisan wins to revitalize u.s. diplomacy, economic statecraft, and national security sep 19, 2025 | press releases washington, dc—today, the house foreign affairs committee passed a series of bills to authorize the u.s. state department and revitalize u.s. diplomatic capabilities. this is the first comprehensive... reps. kim, castor lead bipartisan shine for autumn act to prevent stillbirth and support healthy pregnancies sep 18, 2025 | press releases today, u.s. representatives young kim (ca-40) and kathy castor (fl-14) introduced the bipartisan shine for autumn act to improve stillbirth research and data collection and help prevent stillbirth... rep. young kim leads bipartisan bill to help millions of americans build better credit sep 16, 2025 | press releases today, u.s. representatives young kim (ca-40) and janelle bynum (or-06) introduced the bipartisan credit access and inclusion act to help americans with little or no credit history more easily build... rep. young kim bill to boost community banks passes out of committee sep 16, 2025 | press releases washington, dc – today, the house financial services committee passed the community bank lift act (h.r.5276), a bill led by congresswoman young kim (ca-40) to reduce burdensome regulations on... rep. young kim votes to strengthen military readiness, improve quality of life for servicemembers in fy26 ndaa sep 10, 2025 | press releases washington, dc – today, u.s. representative young kim (ca-40) voted to support the fiscal year 2026 national defense authorization act (fy26 ndaa) to ensure the united states maintains peace through... rep. young kim introduces profit act to strengthen u.s. economic security and global competitiveness sep 10, 2025 | press releases today, u.s. representative young kim (ca-40), chairwoman of the house foreign affairs subcommittee on east asia and the pacific, introduced the profit act of 2025 as part of the state department... « older entries