he is one of the most recognized faces in local politics, spending his childhood in the 51st congressional district that he is now representing for almost a decade. juan vargas says there are a lot of things that have changed in san diego since he was a kid. that includes the always growing number of latinos in political office. i sat down with him during this hispanic heritage month for a look back on his life and career. i think it is fantastic. when i first got elected, i basically was it. people always used to ask me to go on tv to speak spanish because i was the only spanish speaker when it was anything related to latino heritage month or anything. it was me because there were no other people. that is changed dramatically. juan vargas was born in san diego and grew up in national city. at a time it had a true small town vibe right down to the national city fair. his neighborhood was mostly latino. i grew up speaking spanish in san diego. my first language was spanish. it was not even though i was born and raised here. our little uncle, if everybody spoke spanish. vargas is one of ten children. his father came to the u.s. from mexico as part of the bracero program, working on a chicken ranch. i think i was probably thirteen and i was digging a ditch with my father working in planning trees and in landscape. he said, son, are you enjoying what you are doing? i said, no, dad, i am not. and he goes, get an education. is that? yeah. no, that is what i want to do. vargas may not have known he would end up in congress, but he did have an idea. he would end up wearing a suit and tie to work after a chance meeting. my mom did not know the law and she thought that they were going to lose their kids because of this accident. and we had a volunteer lawyer who was a latino. they came and told us, ultimately, lady, you are a bad driver. you are not a bad mother. you are not going to lose your kids. and i looked up to him. i just thought, wow, it is the first latino i had ever met in the united states with a sudan. i would never met one with a sudan. and also, he kind of became the image of who i wanted to be. you can be anything you want in this country, in this country, even though you are poor, you can do anything you want. he graduated from the university of san diego in 1983 at this ceremony. he would add a master's from fordham and then a law degree from harvard. juan vargas first took office on the san diego city council in 1993. he was the only latino on the council at the time. that was the first time he sat down with cbs 8 for a hispanic heritage month story. there were times, certainly, when i was growing up that i felt i had to prove myself. had to work a little harder, had some questioning about my abilities because i was a latino. vargas moved to state assembly in 2000, state senate in 2010, and congress representing the 51st district since 2013. he is proud of his record and representation. i never did anything that i am ashamed of just the opposite. i think i have behaved myself well and comported myself in a way that is appropriate. and so i feel good about that. feel good about where my community is here in san diego. hispanic heritage month has become a big celebration. and for vargas, it is a chance to appreciate progress. i think the biggest thing, at least for me, about hispanic heritage month is that you can be proud of who you are as a latino. growing up, as i did, people would call you names and lots of other things that were very negative. they do not do that anymore. people are respectful, but they are proud of the diversity. and that is what i would tell them. i mean, i think we have come a long way in this community. i think we have come a long way in this country to accept people as they are. they are backgrounds. and i think that is a fabulous thing. do you have any special memories about hispanic heritage month? now, when you are growing up, it was a week. and then, well, into your adulthood, it became hispanic heritage month. what are your memories about it? it is interesting going to old town. it was kind of a treat for us. old town was kind of expensive for a family like us to go to. but it was always a nice place. so we go to old town. we go to one of those mexican restaurants. my mom and dad really enjoyed it. and before it was us, latino celebrating this now, it is like everyone celebrating something. it is fun. i think it really has transcended just the latino community. i think maybe corona did that because of all the advertising who knows. but it is funny because i think that now it is something that is pretty universal to everybody. so, whether driven by advertising or integration, hispanic heritage is celebrated by so many in san diego in so many ways. and vargas is proud to be a part of that and of a growing melting pot. and that is one of the things i love about san diego. we do try hard. i mean, we do try to integrate everyone in our community. we do try to get along. i think we do. i think we have a very rich culture. not only latinos, but irish, italians, african americans, of course, filipinos. and i think that makes it a wonderful community. congressman vargas says his parents are very supportive. he had an uncle who kind of discouraged him for pursuing his career and his education and his dreams. and his parents said, no, it is america. you can be anything you want to be. and he did. he became that. he is the american dream. you were saying it during the story. i love, you know what i love, all the old footage through the years at cbs 8 has covered everywhere. he is back. one of the things we have, we have a long institutional memory. i have to thank barbara neilson. she is our archives editor. she helped me dig through. we had to go through a lot of stuff to find some of those older images. and i also want to thank colleen murphy who edited that. but we have this bank that we like to reach into it and make some withdrawals on once in a while. and it was fun doing it. it was fun to look at it. it is incredible. wow, the history.