congresswoman vargas, thank you for joining me today. president obama has pledged to put everything into tighter gun control. he wants universal background checks on anyone trying to buy a gun. he wants to renew all of the assault weapons ban and a 10-round limit to magazines. what do you think of his proposal? and what are his chances of getting it passed? well, i support him. i support him in each one of those things. i mean, we have to reduce the gun violence in this country. it is unbelievable the amount of violence that we have today. we can compare ourselves to some of these other democracies around the world. obviously, we have just so much more violence than they do. so i think he has a good shot. obviously, it will be tough in some areas because people have believed that it is the second amendment right to have almost any type of weapon. in fact, some of the crazies have to call these guys crazy. believe they can have nuclear weapons at home. that is for a malicious second amendment. so it will be hard to negotiate with them. but i think that a lot of us love our kids. we have something wrong with you. and we want to reduce the violence. and we see it out there. so i am very hopeful. we have some great testimony over in the senate. hope we have some opportunities in the congress to reduce the violence. and i think some of these measures are good. i would even go further. how would you go further? well, i think ammunition is one of the things you really have to go. i mean, why do not you have background checks also for ammunition? they are going to do that in california. i think that would be important too. you know, a lot of these people, they may have a weapon, but they did not have the ammunition. they could not go shoot people. so i would go even further. ok, let us switch gears to immigration reform. it was a big week for the topic with both the senate and the president putting forth their own proposals. both plans offer a path to citizenship. but the senate plan ties it to border security. how feasible is that? well, i mean, it is a great first step. i mean, let us take it for what it is. very positive. i mean, when you have everyone saying we have to take a look at all the people that are here undocumented and do something about it. and something that coincides with our history, which is compassion, love, family, and all these things. so it is a very positive first step. now, there are differences, as you said, the issue of border security. and who is going to be on this commission? who decides? i mean, is the governor of arizona the one going to decide? you cannot put it in her hands. she will say there is never enough security. and then these poor people would be second-class citizens forever. they would never have an opportunity to become a citizen of the us. so i think it is important that you have a process whereby you can become a citizen. and the president has proposed that, i think, in a better way than the senate. but you know what? it is a great, great step forward. expanding on the topic of border security, the senate plan calls for adding more drones to patrol the border. as you know, drones are becoming an increasingly important part of san diego's economy. and yet, the department of homeland security's own inspector general says that the border drone program has serious management issues. how necessary do you think these drones are to patrol the border? well, i have to tell you, it almost seems like a science fiction here with all the drones. i have been reading quite a bit about them. and i am not really excited about the drones. i mean, i think they do have their place, but flying around the border here, i think it can actually do more damage than help. and i do think there is a real problem with them. so i am not excited about it. i do think that they have their place in other confrontational areas and conflictive territories. but here at home, flying around the border where they can crash into homes and have all sorts of other problems. i am not in favor of that. i do not think it helps. the house republicans have agreed to extend the government's borrowing authority for another three months. that means that this debt-sealing fight is coming back at the end of march. meanwhile, new figures show that the economy actually contracted in the last three months of last year. can the united states afford this fight to come up every couple of months? no, i did not vote for it. i thought it was ridiculous. i mean, one more gimmick, another three months down the road, we fight again. this only hurts our economy. i was one of the few people in congress that voted against it. you cannot create these crises. these crises really is what brings our economy down because you have to have confidence. before we wrap up here, i want to touch on santa no 3. as you know, southern california edison wants to reopen the plant at reduced capacity, 70 percent. cities and the san diego school district is calling for a trial-like hearing in which edison is basically put on the stand and required to offer evidence that the plant is safe to reopen and cross-examined. what do you think about this? well, i saw the energy constance development committee when i was in the assembly when the lights were going off in california. we actually put people under oath and found out what in the world went on. so it is not a bad idea as long as the right people are asking the question and it does not become a... would you consider the right people? people who know what they are talking about. instead of it becoming a road show and just politics, you know, get experts in there to ask them true questions. is it really safe? you know, do you really have this under control? and if not why are you firing it up makes no sense. the only reason they want to do this is because they want to be able to get some money. and if it is vacant for a long time, they actually cannot recoup their investment. so that is really the issue. one vargas, thank you for coming on the program. it is a pleasure. thank you for inviting me.