what is going on there, mr. baron? what is going on here is, is we have heard that the trump allocated $300 million through the u.s. mca agreement for infrastructure improvements in the united states of america, due to raw sewage and toxic chemical contamination coming in from mexico, is now being diverted by the biden administration back to studies. we got a list of who the stakeholders are in the tijuana river valley. we got wild coasts, we got surfrider. now let me fill you in first about surfrider wild coast. we know that their plan, and i say it is their plan because sludge to dena, that was his plan that he gave to surfrider for the tijuana river valley flood control plan. the epa came out and said that plan is infeasible. so what do these guys do? these guys want to divert the trump allocated money to studies. it has been overstudied in the tijuana river valley, not one more penny needs to be studied. it is not rocket science folks, gravity is king. it is even your best friend or your worst enemy, and right now it is the worst enemy of the resident stakeholders who are the true bosses of people like worthless juan vargas, who is also on that list of stakeholders who they collaborate with to divert the funding, to studies, back to studies. this guy, this guy right here is not for the united states of america, he is not for the american people. this guy is pro sanctuary, which means he is in bed with the mexican cartel to human traffic people into this country, which means he is into child trafficking, which means he is into human sex trafficking, child sex trafficking, drug trafficking, everything the mexican cartel stands for. this man by sanctuary alone, if not everything else he does, is in bed with the mexican cartel. he cares nothing about us. and it is the biden administration that is diverting that funding back to studies and they are all in cahoots, the whole clown car dem fest of elected officials and politicians who claim they are leaders, they are leaders, we are the leaders, they are supposed to follow our lead. we are the people. these guys work for us. and what mr. worthless juan vargas seems to forget is that he is in the legislative branch of the federal government, okay? that does not mean he is in the judiciary. that does not mean he is in the executive, he is in the legislative and he oversteeps his bounds. and he forgets that. well, we are here with this rude awakening for worthless juan vargas and all the like of them to tell him what is going on that we, the people are the resident stakeholders. he works for us, we are his boss and we are ready to fire him.