the chair recognizes the gentleman from california, mr. vargas, for five minutes. i think mr. speaker has been at his consent to address the house. without objection. thank you very much, mr. speaker. mr. speaker, i rise in favor of immigration reform, comprehensive immigration reform. i would like to thank my colleague from illinois that spoke earlier about his experience in saying that he believes in comprehensive immigration reform i do too. i just wish that when he was asked or when he asked the board of patrol agent, if there was one thing that you could bring back to congress, one thing, what would it be? i wish that that gentleman would have said his bible, because that is what he should have said. bring your bible. that will give you the best guidance. bring your bible. and i believe, mr. speaker, i am allowed to read from the bible. is that correct? no one will come and tackle me. i am new at this, my first year here, and i hope i am not violating any law, but if i am, i am going to do it anyway. and i would like to read from matthew 25, because matthew 25 speaks to the judgment, and i think it is very important for us to read this section, and even though my mom gave to me this bible some time ago with giant print, i still need glasses now. and it reads like this, when the son of man comes in his glory, escorted by all the angels of heaven, he will sit upon his royal throne, and all the nations will be assembled before him. then he will separate them into two groups as a shepherd-separate sheep from goats. the sheep he will place on his right hand, the goats on his left. the king will say to those on his right, come, you have my father's blessing, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the creation of the world, for i was hungry, and you gave me food. i was thirsty, and you gave me drink. i was a stranger, and you welcomed me. i was a stranger, and you welcomed me. who is the stranger? who is the stranger among us that we welcome? i will tell you who the stranger is among us who we welcome. the stranger is the wife of the soldier that we spoke to three weeks ago here in washington. when he came and he testified and said, i am not afraid of dying in afghanistan, or i racked, i have been on three tours of duty. what i am afraid is that my wife will get deported because she is undocumented, and then who will take care of my children? she is the stranger, the soldier's wife. who is the stranger? who is the stranger among us? who is this least among us? i will tell you who it is. it is the child and the parents who are here where the child is born here. he is an american citizen, but the parents were not so the parents can get deported, and you break the family apart. and we deport the parents, and we do not know what happens to the children because they go to strangers. we break this family. who is the stranger? those parents, that child, and how we treat them is how we are going to be judged. and we have an opportunity here before us. and i am very, very thankful now for the churches in this country. the catholic church for many years has been saying, we need humane, comprehensive immigration reform. they have said it loud and clear. and now the evangelical churches are out there saying the same thing. god bless them. and i know that they are praying. i know my parish is praying. we all open our hearts to this. and i have to tell you, i have not been here long, but i do get the opportunity to pray with my colleagues on the republican side. and they are great people with great hearts. and i hope that god speaks to them at this point in time and says, the stranger is the soldier's wife. the stranger is the child whose parents are going to be ripped away from. he is, in fact, the people that die crossing the border because they want a better life for themselves. those are the strangers. and we are going to be judged. we are going to be judged on how we treat them. so we have an opportunity here. but also, step me apart from that people say, but it is illegal. what they have done is illegal. you know, the law is interesting. i happen to be a lawyer. and there is two ways to look at the law. there is the law that says it is mollum, per se. it is bad or evil in itself. mollum per se in itself. murder is mollum per se. it is always evil. it is always wrong to kill. on the other side, you have mollum prohibitum. what is mollum prohibitum? mollum prohibitum means it is bad or wrong or illegal because we prohibit it. for example, if you drive 56 miles an hour in a 55 mile an hour zone, you have broken the law. have you done anything illegal? yes, you have. have you done anything immoral? no. the road was built to go faster than that. your car was. the brakes are good. you have violated the law. what do we often do? we change the law and we say 55 miles an hour does not make any sense. we change it to 60 or 65 or 70. i have been through texas now. it is 75 there. california, we only have 70. why because the law does not make any sense? our immigration law does not make any sense. so yes, they have broken the law, but a law that does not make any sense. so let us change the law. let us open our hearts. let us take this bible. let us take a look and see what it says to us. and what it will say is this, that how we treat the stranger is how we are going to be judged as a nation. mr. speaker, thank you.