thank you, mr. president. it is interesting when we talk about the voters and the voters' wills and what the voters want. i think john adams was the one who said it that facts are stubborn things. so i took a look at a little bit of the facts in california. these are some facts. back in 1902, this senate floor was populated with 34 republicans and only six democrats. the floor on the other side had and the assembly had 60 republicans and only 20 democrats. in 1912, interestingly, there were 28 republicans and there were four republican and labor union party and eight democrats. in the assembly, there were 69 republicans and 11 democrats. in 1932, on this floor, there were 35 republicans, only four democrats and there was a vacancy. in the assembly, there were 73 republicans and only seven democrats. now we moved to more modern times. in 1972, there were only 19 republicans and there were 21 democrats in this house. in the other house, there were 36 republicans, there were 43 democrats and one vacancy. in 1992, there were 13 republicans on this floor, 25 democrats, one independent and one vacancy. in the other house, there were 32 republicans and 48 democrats. in 2002, after redistricting once again, there were 14 republicans on this floor, 25 democrats and one vacancy. in the assembly, there were 29 republicans, there were 50 democrats and one vacancy. so what do you see there? you see the voters speaking. what are opinions, whether we are the ones that carry out the voters' wills, that somehow, the voters are the ones that get to make the decisions? and it is very interesting how we have gone from 1902 from 34 republicans on this floor to 15 and dwindling. and i do think that after the next election, the republicans will be punished once again by the voters, because they do not listen to the people. once again, the party will shrink and continue to shrink. not my opinion, they are the stubborn facts. i remember spending six years in the assembly hearing over and over and over again how the public, the voters were going to punish the democrats in the next election. the governor who was elected was a democrat, lieutenant governor democrat. you do not have to go down the list, you know every statewide constitutional officer, every one of them is now a democrat, because the republicans are not paying attention to the voters. instead, you are paying attention to a very small but very vocal part of your party that says, net, net, net. it is time to change. it is time to look at what do the people want. i say this because remember the wigs, remember the federalist party, parties that disappeared. unless the republicans in california start to understand the needs of the people, they are going to go the way of the wigs, the way of the federalist. they have shrunk and they are shrinking and they are going to disappear. instead, everyone takes a look at the own interest in the very small districts as opposed to the corporate need of the state. i hope that changes. and this budget that we are going to pass today, i am not happy about it. i am not happy about it at all. it is not my vision. it is a very difficult budget. we do violence to the courts when we do these cuts. we especially do injustice to our children in the schools, to the poor and the elderly. but this is all we can do with a majority that is not a super majority. but that will not be for long because these numbers, these facts are stubborn. not my opinion, their history, their facts. and i hope that in fact you start listening to the people. allow them to vote on important issues like this. allow them to do that. otherwise, your numbers will continue to shrink. thank you mr. president.