ladies and gentlemen, please welcome to the stage congressman byron donalds. you cannot see me, but i am left left. it is the fred scott, but i am tired of nothing. you cannot see me, but i am left. the christians who have got a fellow on the scale, not just your lord, or only stacked back what our kids were in the swell of the fred scott. through a pig business in the mississippi, i got winning the new bill school, you finished the school, and i still need a fight. because i am a woman, i am like a woman, i do not know who you are breaking, i keep the heart of nails. i am sorry, i am a woman, i am like a woman. man is good to be home in new york city. you know, usually i got a lot to say, but this one's special to me. i was born in brooklyn, new york. in new york, we refer to msg as the mecca. we refer to it as the center of entertainment. and in nine days, it is going to be the launch point for the center of making donald trump the 47th president of the united states. i do not even want to talk about kamala. why? why would we waste our time? she does not even want to talk about herself. she tells us she grew up in a middle class family. but i do not care. because it is families today in new york, in chicago, in philadelphia, in milwaukee, in phoenix, they are struggling because of kamala harris. and they are saying the same thing. we are saying we had enough. we need donald trump back. she broke the border. she broke the border and does not even have the guts to tell you the truth. but that is okay. because the next president of the united states, he is going to fix the border because he did it once and he is going to do it again. she unleashed the massive inflation that has made it harder for every working family in our country. if she was around when i was a kid, it would have devastated my mom who still lives in brooklyn. hi, mom. how you doing? and you think she has an answer for the people who are trying to find ways to get ahead? no, she does not. nothing book word salad. i kind of like salad. everybody should have some as healthy as good for you. but this word salad mess is defensive. it is meant to make you think that she is smart and you are somehow dumb. the truth of the matter is the common sense of the american people is what is needed today. and that will be brought by donald j. trump. then you look around the world. look around the world. she said she was the last person in the room after that disastrous withdrawal from afghanistan. you know, that that withdrawal is seared into my mind. i remember watching afghans hold onto the sides of airplanes to escape the taliban. and as i am watching this, the one thing i know is that if donald trump was president, that never would have happened. never would have happened. but i have a special message to everybody around the world, especially those who want to find themselves getting into the business of other people, who are messing with our greatest ally in israel. donald trump is going to stand by israel 100% of the way. 100% of the way. and donald trump is going to get us out of these wars because he did it once and he is going to do it again. but the last thing we are going to fix, and it is a big one. you see, i got three kids. they are all boys. and i will be damned if you are going to have some school tell my boys that they can now be girls. not on my watch. not on the watch of donald trump. i could promise you that. we are going to have common sense in america again under donald trump. we are going to get men out of women's sports under donald trump. america will take its place again as the shining city on the hill, as the leader of the world, as the number one nation, as the great experiment, because he is going to fix it once again and it is together new york. and around america, we are going to make america great again. god bless you, new york. god bless america. let us go win.