that is a bunch of bs. you heard it right there. do you have a second? fine. do you have any thoughts on the department of interior's proposal to expand our real-ease tremble? yeah, actually, we are starting to have conversations with the administration about this. my view is we are going to continue to do our human land and protect the coastline of florida. this is something where people of our state are currently just on the oil drilling of the florida's coast. so we are going to work with the administration and continue to continue the touch of the water. are you comfortable with president trump's comments about democratic lawmakers saying that they have engaged in seditious behavior? they have engaged in seditious behavior. that mess you just heard over there about not being intimidated? no, the intimidation came from them when they launched their stupid video that nobody asked for, that nobody was talking about to try to get clicks and likes. that is actually a bigger problem that is going on in this building behind me. everybody wants to be a star now. everybody wants to be on social media. everybody wants to be on fox. everybody wants to be on cnn or msnbc. and that is the stunt that they pulled. the president is correct to call it out for what it is. because for them, and i honor their service to the nation before they came to capitol hill, but for them to now go out and tell our troops and the members of our intelligence community that it is okay to disobey orders, that is obscene. they would never tolerate anything like that when joe biden was president, where barack obama was president, where clinton was president, they would have never tolerated anything like that. so now they are going to feign outrage because donald trump responded to their words that do yield to insurrection, please. but should a president have been... no, no. and this is where i am going to push back. because what they are doing is trying to throw literally a grenade into the room. it goes off. and then they are going to claim outrage. they have no moral standing to claim outrage. because they decided that they were going to be cute and put out a tiktok video trying to get likes, trying to demonstrate that they are tough enough to stand up to president trump when donald trump is the commander in chief. not mr. crow, not senator slotkin, they are not the commander in chief. and like i said before, they would not tolerate any republican launching any video like that when barack obama was president of the united states. you know it is true, i know it is true, everybody knows it is true. but now they want to feign outrage and have everybody come and ask them how they feel. man, stop. we are tied to the games in the charade. the american people are looking for real answers on energy, on immigration, on affordability, but they want to be cute. so yeah, i am not going to give them any standing about, well, how do they feel? that is bs. they knew what they were doing. they created a political stunt to get a response. when they did not like the response. in terms of what the president is uncomfortable with. yeah, he is comfortable with it. he should know the way oil and gas is coming. yeah, yeah, yeah. look, i think when it comes to florida, we have been clear in our state. we do not want a tutorial of filling up with our coastline. and so we are going to work with the administration to talk to florida's coastline. so, you know what i am saying? are you comfortable with what the president said? suggesting that members of congress should be picked today. no, but the president also said that they should have to be actually stand by. you have to investigate those words. what they are calling for is sedition. sedition. sedition. sedition. let me ask you a question. what are the penalties of sedition in the united states of america? what are they? the president is not calling for it, but they are the ones that started this foolishness. and i will grant you this is a foolish political stunt. created by people who are trying to get their name idea. who are trying to demonstrate that somehow they are the standard bearers for our constitutional republic when their own words are a violation of our constitutional republic. you cannot have elected members. i do not care about your public. this is not even a political deal anymore. you cannot have elected members. tell the our military men and women. tell our members of our intelligence community that you do not have to follow orders from the commander in chief. that is nuts. and as people who actually put the uniform on and serve this nation, they should know better. but they are playing politics. that is what is wrong. can i ask you about the controversy to your college before the court knows and she was cheerful as me. where are you in both of those cases? what do you think about both? as i said right now, but the allegations are terrible. they are going to be investigated by the ethics committee. and we will see what the results of the ethics committee are going to come back with. these are things that should be investigated. and so we will see where that lands, but the allegations are not good. and on congresswoman kormick, should she be expelled from congress? based upon the current standard where mr. santos was expelled, when the ethics committee came back with their report and finding and the members made a decision, then you. all right, thanks.