wow, southwest florida, thank you. thank you. this is the best place to live on earth. am i right? we are so blessed. thank you for being here tonight. all of you. i see so many friends, so many from their faces. man, i love you guys so much. i love this place. thank you. i am your support. the next governor of florida, my husband, byron donald. byron and i met when i was 19 and he was 21, so you know, not that long ago. but really to put it in perspective, our sons are now 21, 17 and 13, damon, darren and mason, who are all here with us tonight. love you boys. byron and i graduated from the florida state university. right after september 11th. so we went into a very rough economy. and my mom had moved down here to naples when i was in school. and byron, seeing a bank on every corner, thought with our degrees, his and finance, mine and accounting that we could get jobs here. well, i very reluctantly agreed to move to southwest florida temporarily. byron transferred his job from cracker barrel in tallahassee to the one that sits at exit 101 at the end of alligator alley. we got married in naples and we had a beautiful sunset reception at junka new on the beach in fort myers beach. great memory, sad now after ian. but many of you are here and i just see you in the crowd and i am so grateful. you knew us before politics. we were very involved in our church and they taught us what it was about to be a life of service to your church, to your community. and when i was pregnant with damon, our oldest, we got recruited to be youth leaders. and we spent the next 15 years pouring into hundreds of teenagers and their families. and some of them are probably here tonight. i tell you, those were some of the best years of our lives. byron coached countless youth sports teams. sorry, reps. he was a little rough. and he also served on the boards of child evangelism fellowship, which some of you know from good news clubs in our elementary schools, and also on our local salvation army board. we were active toast masters. and toast masters in the house. one of byron's toast master speeches landed him a speaking spot on the back of a pickup truck. at the naples tea party rally on the corner of pine ridge road and us 41, one of our very first political events. when byron was recruited to serve in public office and to run to be elected, it was because people in this community, people like you, had seen his heart of service in action for well over a decade. he had built relationships in his career in finance and banking. he started as a bank teller, a job where you do not even need a degree. but he was willing to go in and put in the work and prove himself. and he ended up working his way to being a partner at one of the most respected financial firms in the country. it is the american dream, you guys. it really, really is. and so many of you helped support it, prayed for us along the way. but you know, he gave up that dream job to run for congress and to represent our community in the united states capital. and we are so, so grateful and so proud of the work that he is done there. you know, byron understands the american dream and that it is for everyone. he is going to make sure that every single florida indian is able to achieve that dream here in the sunshine state. and i have seen byron's leadership in action both at home, with our family and in his public service. and i can tell you without a doubt that he has the vision and the experience and most importantly, the character to lead this state, the state that we love, to even greater heights. with wisdom from almighty god and with the favor that he has so generously given to us, to byron, to our family. i know that this campaign for governor is going to bring people together. the same as byron has done throughout his career, throughout his service to the community, throughout his time in congress. and people will come together behind an aspirational vision for our state, one that we want for our children and for our grandchildren, who we know are going to call the great state of florida home. without further ado, it is my honor and my privilege to introduce to you the next governor of the great state of florida, my husband byron donalds. the president of the state of florida, my husband byron donalds, my husband byron donalds. the president of the state of florida, my husband byron donalds, my husband byron donalds, my husband byron donalds. the president of the state of florida, my husband byron donalds, my husband byron donalds, my husband byron donalds. the president of the state of florida, my husband byron donalds, my husband byron donalds, my husband byron donalds. the president of the state of florida, my husband byron donalds, my husband byron donalds, my husband byron donalds. good evening florida. good evening, bonita springs. you know, if you have never been to the sugar shack, let me tell you that this place is packed. it is packed with people who are ready to find the right place to be. it is packed with people who are ready to fight for the future of florida to take our state to the highest heights possible. as i look out, i see family, friends, leaders of southwest florida, but more than that, i see the heart of florida. i see workers, parents, believers, builders, and i am humbled to stand with all of you today. i had an opportunity to see a couple of my colleagues who i just love. my guy, cory mills, out of central florida. i love you, brother. i love you. and listen, the only reason i was not wearing shades tonight because you know they kind of put my name up on all this stuff. but cat camic, my ryder die, my big sister. love you, cat. you are amazing. i love you. for the protesters across the street because they are very, they do not sound very good. let me introduce myself not only to them, but to the people of our great state. my name is byron donnells. and i am running to be your next governor. i am doing this simply because i actually believe in all of you. i believe in us as a state. and i believe that florida will continue to be the very best state in america. for those who do not know my story, i was born in brooklyn, new york and raised. brooklyn's always in the house and raised by a single mom. like most single moms, my mom is tough. she taught me the value of hard work. there were no excuses. she believed in my potential and was a school choice mom before school choice was a thing. we did not have much, but my mom made sure that what we lacked would not hold me back. my mother set me on a path to success. a path i could never repay her for. mom, thank you. i could never repay you. thank you. at 17, i left new york on a greyhound bus and i came to florida for opportunity. i went to famu and florida state, earned a degree. a degree, go knows. earned a degree in finance and marketing from florida state university. i moved to naples in 2003 and built a career in banking, insurance and financial services. i am a husband to my incredible wife, erica. stand up, erica. everybody loves you. stand up, erica. the next first lady of florida, everybody. i am a dad to the three boys and i am a man of faith who knows where my strength lies. i served in florida house. i fought in congress and now i am here for you because florida is my home and you are my people. florida, florida. florida is the best state in america. although we are the best state, your insurance bills are still rising. traffic jams waste your time and our kids deserve more. i am not here to talk. i am here to act. my plan for florida is bold and clear. fix the insurance crisis. build new roads. finish restoring the everglades. make florida the financial capital of the world. and ensure our kids master math, reading, writing and reasoning. first insurance. i worked 17 years in the financial industry. i get the problems. homeowners, you are hurting. homeowners are climbing. companies flee after storms and families are stuck. it is not right. and as governor, i will fix it. we will focus on making sure florida has an insurance market that works for everyone. we will find targeted solutions that will stabilize costs for the people of florida. i will bring in more insurers to compete, giving you real choices. florida is too great to be priced out. we will make insurance affordable again. second traffic. i have driven these roads from miami's gridlock to orlando's backups and even here in southwest florida, i-75. you guys know that turn right after you get past the benitez spring says it slows down? yeah, i know that turn to. fresh rates me too. it is not just annoying. it is slowing us all down. as governor, i will build new roads, smart, modern roads where they are needed most. well, wide and highways, add lanes and cut through delays that hold projects back. i will team up with private companies to move fast and save your money. florida's growing, our roads should keep pace, not drag us down. third, the everglades. this is our treasure. key to our water, our wildlife and our identity. we have started restoring it. a lot of great work has been done. but there is still work that is left. as governor, i will finish it. we will finish the projects to repair the everglades once and for all. we will restore the natural flow and protect our farmers and fishermen caught in this mess. the everglades is florida's legacy and we are saving it for the next generation. fourth, let us make florida the financial capital of the world. now, i got some know-how about this. first of all, new york is faltering and it is really their own fault because they are government submess. but new york is faltering. high taxes, tough rules, businesses are leaving. florida's ready. low taxes, light regulations and a workforce eager to win. big coin will be a part of the state's portfolio. we will cut the commercial lease tax, ease rules and lead in blockchain and crypto. florida will create a business court so it becomes easier to settle corporate disputes, picture it, while flowing through our state, lifting every community. expanding florida's economy means going from the traditional three-legged stool of agriculture, construction and tourism to a diverse economy that brings more high-paying jobs today, but the jobs we need for florida's future. now, number five is education. our kids are our future, but too many are slipping through the cracks. i am raising three sons. this is personal for me. in 2019, when i was in a state house, i passed the hope scholarship, which at the time was the largest expansion of school choice in the country. a year later, we passed universal scholarship accounts. school choice is now a way of life in florida, and i was there to make sure that it happened. in florida, parents are at the front of the line, not the bureaucrats. so what is next? florida is near the top in america when it comes to k-12 education, but america is number 37 in the world. so if you are at the top, when our nation is close to the bottom, we have more work to do. as governor, my mission is to move florida from the top 10 in america to the top 10 in the world. president trump is doing his part by shutting down the department of education and moving. and moving education to the states. my administration will zero in on what counts, proficiency in math, reading, writing, and reasoning. every child, every child, should solve equations, read with understanding, write clearly, and think sharply. we will revamp curriculums and provide our kids with every tool that moves them towards mastery in education. our kids deserve mastery, not mediocrity. children who are proficient, children who are proficient in course subjects are the future leaders america needs. the future entrepreneurs, our economy, desires, and the future citizens that will keep america and florida the envy of the world. so that is my vision for florida's future. i can be this bold about our future because we are building on a great foundation left to us by governor rick scott and governor ron desantis. we have a great foundation, but we got some other things we got to figure out, like taxes. as floridians, you should benefit from our growing tax base. whether it is property taxes, sales taxes, or the commercial rent tax, i have been clear that i will reduce taxes on my fellow floridians and their businesses. i will work in cooperation with the legislature to ensure that florida's residents and businesses get the tax breaks that they deserve. let us talk about safety. and before we get there, we have some of lee county's finest here with us this evening. gentlemen, thank you. thank you very much. we are the safest state in the country. we are the safest. our sheriffs and our governor have done a tremendous job keeping our communities safe. as your next governor, i will continue to back the blue. law enforcement will continue to be honored and respected in florida. we will continue to lock up criminals. and we will continue to work with president trump and his administration to remove illegal aliens from florida. we will continue to be a law and order state. but let us talk about the thing that everybody loves about our state, freedom. i am a conservative. in 2017 as a freshman legislator, i passed the first bill of its kind that allowed parents to have full access to the instructional materials in their child's school. the democrats, unions and bureaucrats fought me. but i stood for parental rights and that bill was the beginning of getting woke indoctrination out of our schools. in 2018, i voted against red flag laws and taking away the gun rights of people between the ages of 18 and 21. let me explain a little bit about that. at that time in the legislature, marjorie stoneman douglas just happened. it was a tragedy in our state. it was a tragedy. i was told that if i did not vote for that bill, i was going to lose appropriations. all my bills will be canceled. but i did not care because constitutional rights are never up for discussion. in 2020, when covid was shutting against any threat, this is the free state of florida. and as your next governor, it will remain the free state of florida. this campaign, my brother, love miami-dade. this campaign is about you, the people of florida. it is about the dad and stretch thin by insurance. it is about the retirement of the south and south was just one clean water. it is about the teacher in jacksonville hoping her students thrive. you are the reason why i am running. i fought for you in the state house. i fought for you in congress and i will fight for you as your next governor. i will fight for you as your next governor. the first political event i ever went to was a tea party rally in naples, florida. by the way, where is diane harris? i know she is in here. where is she? diane, come here. come here, diane. hold on a second. come here, diane. let me restart. the first political event i ever went to was a tea party rally in naples, florida. and if you do not believe me, this is the lady i met. okay. okay. so this is new. okay. i do not usually do this ever. but when i met byron, i ended up having a met and greet, which i did not really know much about that. but anyways, he ended up, i got 20 people in the house and he is, we are in the back, you know, waiting to bring in and introduce him. and anyways, he is like, do not worry, do not worry. i have been going to toastmasters and the key thing is you just speak from your heart. and so i spoke from my heart and my heart is overwhelmingly proud of this man. he has taught me so much and a lot of it has, has had to do with his faith. so there is no question. he, he, he, he speaks of his faith first. i mean, he, he, it is the same thing with president trump. there is a reason why we are where we are today. it is for people like byron to rise. and also on top of that, president trump is bringing up the younger generation. and, um, and that is what is going to save us. is solid, smart, common sense, faithful, proud, and who love everybody. he is park florida. and, um, i just love you. i am so proud of you. i really enjoyed being a part of your journey from the beginning, because it really did mean everything. i mean, taking those signs and knocking on the doors and sweating our butts off together, you know, and the training. and i have spoken to people here today who have their first experience with you. and their first experience, one gentleman said it was 9 p.m. and night. and this rain and it is thundering. and this guy comes by his door and knocks and he is like, not sure who he is. and eventually, byron says, well, just, do you know byron donalds? and, and the guy's like, no, and goes, well, now you do. i am right here. and so it had like a 20 minute conversation and then he invited him into his home. and throughout all the time that we have been on campaigns with byron, it is those experiences and he never forgets you. he will never forget his conversation with any of you. he is the man for florida. he is going to be the greatest governor. and of course, eventually, he will be president. so. and it is possible. well, thank you so much for my heart. i love you and i am so thrilled for you. thank you. thank you. that is a really cool endorsement. my first event was 16 years ago and i got to tell you, 16 years later, i never thought i would be here. i started in politics as an activist. i became a legislator fighting for school choice and protecting your constitutional rights. i went to congress where i battled the democrats on capitol hill and the radical media on their networks. over the last two years, i was campaigning for the america first agenda because that is where the fight was. i knew florida was red. everybody knew florida was red. you guys took care of that one. but i was all over the country in every battleground state because we had to win the most consequential presidential election of our lifetimes. so the fight took me to battleground states to make sure that donald j. trump became the 47th president of the united states. along the way, president trump and i developed a strong friendship. he watched me battle the left, take on all comers, and help him make america great again. president trump has endorsed me to be the next governor of florida. and he is endorsed me because he knows i will lead with courage, conviction, and common sense. and that is what our state needs to remain the blueprint for what is possible in america. as your next governor, i will fix what is broken while building on what makes florida the best state in america. to win this campaign, i am asking for your vote. but more importantly, like diane, i am asking for your endorsement. florida. florida. florida. florida. florida. florida. florida. florida. florida. florida. florida is a big state. and with your support, we are going to fix our insurance markets. we are going to fix our transportation issues. we are going to finish repairing the everglades. we are going to make florida the financial capital of the world. and we are going to position our future, our children, on the pathway to be the leaders, florida, and america needs. together, we will get this done. together, florida will continue to be the best state in america and show the other 49 how to get the job done. god bless you. god bless florida. and god bless the united states of america.