right there. representative byring donalds. hey, hey, hey, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. listen, the word is, is that donald day trump's going to be here in a couple of minutes. that is the word. and so i think it is really important right now to let all of new york know that the bronx is now maga country. let us get serious. let us get serious now. let us get serious. let us get serious. all through this country joe biden and the crazy democrats are destroying america. all through this country they are raising prices more than you can afford. they are limiting our ability to actually make our own energy here in the united states so we can prosper. they leave our borders open and flood all of our cities, including new york city, with migrants who should not be here. they are not leading on the world stage and our enemies are on the move. they are suppressing your free speech. they are lying to you. they are cheating you out of the prosperity that should be yours. but in about five months there is one guy who is going to turn all that around. and he is the 47th president donald j. trump. now you guys got a child ladder man if you want that to pick up. but let me tell you this. this is a family affair. this is for all of the people across our country. we say let us go brandon. i am telling you bronx you making me feel good because here's what i know. your energy, your support, we are going to do something that the media says cannot be done. the democrats take new york for granted. they do not believe it will be done. but in november we can turn new york state's ran. last thing i am going to say and i am going to lead the stage because if somebody i know you all want to hear from. i know you want to hear from them. in our politics they tell us that black votes are democrat votes. i mean do not boo me, boo them. they are the ones with the camera. tell them. they tell us that if you are a puerto rican or dominican or peruvian or venezuelan or any other nationality out of latin america that you cannot be a conservative. that is what they tell us. but i am from brooklyn, new york. and i know the conservative streak that is in the heart of new yorkers. and so we are going to do a really big thing in this country in 2024. we are going to change politics. we are going to change the status quo. there are no racial votes in america anymore. there are american votes in america and we are going to save the greatest country man has ever known. hey real quick i wanted to show no because i knew i was coming to the bronx. i was in my pen strike suit and everything. i am going to make sure because you never know who shows up. but new york, man i love you all too new york. let us do something amazing. let us do something spectacular. let us do something monumental. let us together make america great again. god bless you new york. god bless the united states of america. yeah, and i have set up and pulled out this nation. all right that was congressman byron donalds of the state of florida originally from vk, brooklyn, new york, here in the bronx. and so with us is new york native and current us congressman. he is not as a pistol. oh boy he has a future and he is a great friend of mine byron donalds. come up please. wow mr. president there is more of them here now than when i was up about an hour and a half ago. if there is one thing we know is that this man was one of the best presidents this country has ever had. if there is another thing that we know is that all of you are going to make him the 47th president of the united states. thank you byron. great. what a good future.