man, it is good to be back in georgia. you know, they told me early voting started today in georgia, you know? and something tells me that the america first movement in the state of georgia is alive and well and it is 21 days. in 21 days, donald trump is going to be the 47th president of the united states. i have been a little busy, georgia. been around doing a lot of different media interviews, dealing with the press, dealing with the left. well, that is okay. you know, we really cannot boo them too much because it is not really a fair fight. you know, i am out there, we are doing battle and then we make them look bad every single time when we educate them. you know, when we educate them and we bring the facts about why people want donald trump back. when we explain to them that the economy was better under donald trump. when we say that americans could actually afford and buy homes under donald trump. when bacon was actually a decent price and you can go buy two packs instead of just one, that was under donald trump. when you talk about the fact that you know the country was actually secured, we were not overrun with illegal aliens. that was under donald trump. and a funny thing happens and it happens to me, it happens to jd. by the way, jd's doing a great job, is not he? great job. you start to make a point and then they cut you off. and you are like in the flow, you are about to say, you know, no, let me explain to exactly what is going on. and then they want to change the subject. they do not want to talk about the reality facing the american people, but that is okay. you know why that is okay? because more americans as the days go by realize that we have the recipe for success in america. i was home yesterday and i was talking to my local republican party and i said to them something very, very simple. i said, you know, in south west florida, we turn out the vote for the state of florida. we make sure that the vote turns out. that is our job back in naples and in fort myers. there is a couple of you all in here. you all know about that. some of you all visit. you love it down there. tell me, i love it too. baholon, georgia, but now it is your turn. if you want to foreign policy that makes sense, you got to get out and vote. if you want men out of women's sports, you got to get out and vote. if you want the largest deportation force, you got to get out and vote. you know, for everybody at home, a funny thing has happened in polling over the last eight to 10 years. almost 60% of the american people now believe that the best thing to do is deport illegal aliens and send them home. the democrats have gotten immigration so wrong and so backwards that even kamala harris had to put trump's wall in her ass. i figure if they ask her what is her plan to secure the border, she is going to say, you know, i grew up as a middle-class child. we also need to protect our children. we got to protect our children. you know, before i make my next statement, let me just say this, ladies here tonight in georgia and by the way, ladies, you look great. you all all look good. digging the jacket. i like there you go. you know, i am digging that. that looks nice. madam, i love your hair. i see you right there. yes, yeah, you. i am pointing to you with your glasses on. i see you. yes, madam. hair looks good. ladies, in this election, there should be no gender gap. because a trump presidency is a presidency that has a strong economy, has safe streets, has a foreign policy that makes sense and it is a presidency that respects women, protects women, actually protects title ix in america. oh, the press is not like talking about that one. yeah, kamala harris is destroying title ix, which protects women's sports in america. she is destroying it. donald trump will protect it. so, ladies, make sure you get out and vote for donald j. trump. we need you, ladies. we need you. but this message is this point now is for the fellas. fellas, men. let me hear you, men. we talk about the economy. we talk about immigration. we talk about foreign policy. but let us make one thing very, very clear. fathers want their boys to grow up to be men. i have three sons. i will be damned if you are going to tell one of my sons that he is going to be a girl. when you are an adult, if there is something you want to do with your body as an adult, you want to change genders and do all that stuff, that is a decision you make as an adult. but in america, we are going to protect the welfare of children. under donald trump, we are going to protect the welfare of children. we are going to make sure that little girls can grow up to be strong women who are in families with their husband and they have families that continue this great experiment called the united states of america. you see, we know that there are people who struggle in life and none of us perfect. i am not perfect. we all have our struggles. and for the people who have struggles, we have empathy and care for them. we want to make sure that they get the help that they need so they can be productive citizens. but the radical left wants to use the good nature of americans, the empathy of americans, the compassion of americans to destroy the lives of young people before they get a chance to be adults. and donald j. trump says, no, we are going to protect children in america. you know, when i was doing cnn this morning, they are a little concerned. i mean, if i saw a combo that is polling, i would be concerned too. they were trying to lecture us about the gender gap. but women, do not worry about that. you are going to come home and be with us. it is going to be all right. you are going to vote, donald j. trump, and we are going to make america great again. that is all right. but the male gap in voting is the largest i have ever seen. you have black men who are now looking at donald trump and saying, you know what? i am with trump. i see you, brother. i see you right there, brother. i see you. i see you. i see you. i see you. i see you, brother. i see you. i see you all. oh, oh, man. see, trump did it now. oh, make a side fires in the house. okay, brother. okay, brother. all right. okay. hispanic men are saying, you know what? we need to secure the southern border. and i need an economy that is going to let me pass something on to my kids. they are rolling with us. and for the liberal news and for the harris campaign, if you want to call it toxic masculinity, be my guest. you know what we call it? we call it manhood and manhood is needed in america today. oh, i am cooking now. oh, i am cooking now. i am on one. yeah. so you see, georgia, what you are going to do here in 21 days is the same thing we are going to do in pennsylvania. it is the same thing we are going to do in wisconsin. it is the same thing we are going to do in michigan. nevada, you better watch out. roll the dice with donald j trump. arizona just come on with us. because over the next 21 days, all of you are going to get out and vote. you are going to get yourself out. grab five people. grab 10 people say, come on, unk. come on, auntie. come on, sis. come on, friend. friend. come on with me. we are going to vote. in our country, there is only one way that you protect the greatest nation man has ever known. there is really only one way. and that is with the voice of the american people. are you with us? are you going to make sure donald trump is the next president of the united states? well, georgia, we got 21 days. let us get that job done. god bless you. god bless america. god bless georgia. let us make america. brace again. god bless you guys.