thank you. thank you very much. thank you. today, fighting me tonight, it is a pleasure to be here, enjoy the tnl, enjoy being in the last couple of weeks. talk from earlier, mr. kompel, mr. kompel, mr. kompel, right there. we serve in world war ii, korea and vietnam. so, thanks to all our service and everyone here at the tnl this year. carol, carol, i love about that. do we have any other service members? world war ii, another gentleman. this is a glass of tea, this is the main source. please do. i am from the south of california, i am from 35th county, four times right here, i have been tribute to the guys that i flew with. our father's name was john dust, and we got to head over to the town a couple of times, to be through back to childhood. and we had a crash in childhood. our play started and we hit. we run off the runway about five degrees, running into another 29. we hit our nose and then our wing, and it cut the plane straight into back to south of california. and four of the guys at the crash track field. and our father's name was john dust, and he got to stay with service across, which is one of the other congressional weather lines that we bring to us back. and then it worked on another group, and i flew within until i got five patients who were like, finished my missions. and the co-pilot of the name of the scalder, he made first pilot, and after that, the last five missions within, that i was on, and he, he flew the first group, 50 bomber, around the world, the refueling year. and i just wanted to thank you to the people that i flew in, and they were a good question. and they were like, what was the answer to that? the bad girl. i am happy. applause we have got a bless you all. we all, we all, we said you are enjoying, uh, you need to organize tonight without your service, because of thousands of people who did the same, and sacrificed, and let us make it to yours and you. i am a hero here. i am sure it is easy to be bad at it, but it is not new. it is a very good problem, and many of you might have tried it, so you could leave. got a bless you all. thank you. these are, this is why i love doing this. you get to meet a lot of people who have done a lot of incredible things, and, and truly, we were, uh, i do not know, which one of you had to have the weird thing you walked in? you have to have bill, do you have to have? let me see. he had had to, he said, it said, it says world war ii korean vietnam. right? and we all went to the hat and said, is it possible you have been researching three of those wars? and, uh, got blessed. it is just a great thing. and, uh, we appreciate that. you know, i love logan county. i have been, i have probably been in this facility from the war link in the internet, from the indian indian county, and then, in the state. it is great. the team, our children come up to mark valley and find some of the right in the map, and they go to the horse camp, and do a lot of things up here, and it is just a great place, it is a great people, and, uh, and i appreciate you inviting us back, tina, fran, and you are really grateful for your left here? it is just you. um, it is just great, that you continue well from us and give us the honor to serve you. we really appreciate it. but last year was quite a journey. we had, we had, i promise, i do not know what 2019 has in store, which is great as a bar, but it will not, i cannot imagine it is going to be with 20 in here. that was quite eager, because, as many of you know, i was running for governor, myself, i was running, and, you know, we had four people with the race, and, and, uh, came to the point that we were going to have to make this choice about, we were really off-former to run each other, and maybe, create a situation for everyone. we were, we were all lost, because the democrats were united with republicans for the right to do it. and, uh, like the wine that i had, nice talk, and we decided to team up, and we were running number one, number two of the polls, and just thought that, maybe, us working together would be better for everybody, and, so that is what we did. and that was hard. tina and i went out, it was a hard family discussion, a hard conversation, calling out our supporters, or out of the state, and telling them what you were doing, and, um, and, um, and really, you know, the days we ended up to be announced, because once you have, once you decide to do this, you do not get a lot of time to talk, because it will start to leak out, and, media will be asking questions, and you want to announce that, and then, in terms, and, so we, heard out, and we called people, and we told them, and we were, you know, there was a lot of tough calls, and we ended up with, you know, we ended up doing stuff like that, and, we ended up letting out. but, we did the tour, i could friends, and i, i did the media conferences, went around, and the black people were super happy, that we were, we were teaming up, and we were going to, give us a better shot, and win this, and get your publics, and the other members, and the interest, and, um, so as we were, we were doing this, you know, one day, news conferences, we finally did it through it all, and i get home. tina knows her story, but i tell her, that is why she is laughing. she, and, uh, and i say, i told my daughters, katie kylie, who were, 18, 11 at the time, i think. i tell them that, uh, the daddy is not going to go out for governor, he is going to go out for lieutenant governor. mm-hmm. and kylie was a rememberser. she starts crying. i mean, you know, you are baby, you are baby, you know, you are baby, you are daughter, she starts crying when you are a dad, and i do not want to get out. you know, everything else went great, because like when your daughter's crying, she is unhappy with you, it is like, everything else went bad, because she is upset. well, she is just not happy, and i get home, i get this, you know, and i try, she is in control, she is just, weep me, i am in control, and she looks at me, and she goes, i do not even know what a lieutenant governor does. like that is where i put me else does he? no. but i could, i could, i could, i could be a computer to stop him from crying. and finally, i, i, i get her, get her to slow down a little bit, and i said, i like, i like, i like, i like, i like, i like, i like, i like, i like, i like, i like, i like, i like, i like, i like, i mean, i am in in does corset, i mean, i canычon single way the living guy, can you believe me? and i said, you know, you run out of pizza pasha but do not go asleep, and i said, no! so i made it. i mean, you cannot go witcher, ok? bye! i am going home to save the next chapter of the book, but do not worry about me. i said we are home because i like, keep from crying. and i start we were all elected in syria. they were all elected in syria. we are all, but i am telling you what you think is interesting. but we really appreciate the government, and i really appreciate your support. it was a tough race, a difficult race, and you know, we have run it up to the election. i mean, the last couple of months, we did not take a day off. it was like every day, seven days a week. we used some of our hours to wear, and we knew it somewhere, and we knew it somewhere, and we were trying to, because as you noticed, in the last 30 days, they were showing that the polls, all the media polls, said we were going to lose. said we were behind, we are no lose. and you know, we never know what to believe. the last 30 days, all those public polls, said we were behind, we were going to win. so, you know, we do not know. i remember i was talking to my staff, and i said, i said to some of them who were worried about it. i said, it does not, i said, it does not matter. i said, you cannot control what happens. you cannot control the voters. do that. it is one of the wonderful things about democracy is up to them. all we can control is what we do. and this is good advice no matter what you do. just give it your best shot. give it everything you have. do it the right way, and live with your consequences, and win with dignity, and lose with, and lose with grace. and you know, that is what you do. i said, we will act the same way either way. but we have to do our best. we have to give people the effort they expect out. that is exactly what we did, and it is most times, at the time you do something like that, and life turns out exactly how you vote. and we would, and we would rest, and give a bit of a much night. it is a great fun night. some of you were there for that. we really appreciate it. we would do it, and we do feel, what any time you are in a tough race, this is a good part of that. is that you do feel a sense of responsibility to live up to the host and people, a half way. and that is what we hope to do every single day to live up the expectations that you have for us. but i will tell you one of the interesting things about the poll numbers and the list of the numbers. you know, ohio was very divided. and very divided in our elections, even though people will call us a hurdle state, we have very red places, we have very blue places. and hamilton county, since then, we lost quite around 30,000 votes in one country. and you may say, wow, that is a lot of votes. but do you know where the mercer county, i know you have to be from mercer county here tonight, you know? we won mercer county by 10,000 votes. and there are only 17,000 voters that will count. we have 80% of the votes there. 84% of the vote? wow. and just in, i think it was, the mercer dark in miami county, just in three counties, we made up the entire difference in the county. that is which would power what rural counties are doing to overcome what is happening in our rural counties. so that guy standing in the back over there with his thumbs up, he is not going to wait for that until that is true. and none of us do. none of us do is republicans in the state. we need your support. we try to honor that support, give you the best possible government that you, we can provide. and government wide and high, you know, we have been, we have been at, we have been honored, and i do not know, we are like 105 days in this, who is counting, right? and we have this, we have a kid agenda, for earlier, trying to look at what is best to help kids from pre-birth, as you know, to, to, to, all the way, to kindergarten, for school, when they get out, how will we not get a good start life? and, and the dewine family is committed to that. you know, we, we have a demographic problem in ohio, and in many ways, we are losing more working-age workforce than people are coming in, we are turning this into five-hastroons in 2018. we need to grow our population. i always joke with the alliance, and i love to do it in the old, which i am going to review since, 20, but mike and fran have eight children, and 24 grandchildren. but, we put families, we put kids first, trying to build an agenda that helps look people up, particularly those who are struggling with kids, maybe you do not have a good shot at my commitment, mike and fran are our great leaders in that respect, and i are our dream, new, our part. but, my role, mostly, is focus to three areas, is antenna cover. and i love these areas. these are things that work out my whole life, and things that i am passionate about. you cannot improve development, workforce development, and innovation, technology, and how we are going to build future-fisting, how we are going to put ohio in a great spot. and we did a video down to yesterday, on interview high, which is really to make government more cost-emoreservice friendly, to make it, to use data analytics to help make government more accountable, and to do things like data security, so that all the information we have, and ohio that everybody's identities are protected. you know, with technology, you have got to be very careful about that. my role for the data lab, it is really to start treating people like the cost-emores they deserve to be. government sometimes has a treat people right. we do not use technology to make use of it. i do not want to talk to our administrators, they are going to use technology to improve everything we did. we made our office so efficient, and we were able to cut the wait times to start a business in ohio for days to four hour. we made so efficient that we can cut fees by 21-hour to start a business, so we can lose our state, and then the rest are starving to 10-hour days. over the course of eight years, we eliminated a prescription, a retirement of 40 percent of the folks. we eliminated 40 percent of the bureaucracy, and at the end, we were so efficient that we did not need any tax dollars to run our office. the idea behind the video is making sure that we treat... we do that across all the state government. i do not think we are going to be running all state government's already tax dollars, and that will be promising things here, right? but we cannot get a lot more efficient. we can do that. think about this. how many of you have ever ordered anything online? okay? you found your computer, or whatever that is, and you can use your mobile device. how many times have you gotten anything where you were trying to do it, and it was so cumbersome and difficult to just say, ah, not going to do it? then how many times have you found something that was so simple, and you are like, wow, this is where i am going to go and do my business. that is what most state government did to me. so, for making life easier for you, my hope is that we will make ourselves so efficient, and so technologically that you never have to go with another government office ever again. yeah. that is it. now, i understand you may enjoy your experience at the b of e, but if you want to keep it, you can keep it fully before you. i was going to have the paper option. but we really think of how it can be a later big deal, if it is the most innovative for you to state and then what else you want to try and be new. and we are also focused on workforce, how many people get the skills they need, tell you the other bit, there is no more important issue for businesses in the state of the workforce. you used to hear it all the time, and i remember, remember, right early days of politics in ohio, this is to say, taxes are too high, regulations are too bad, might have a mortgage compensation issue, they do not like regulation taxes, that is what are our problems. over the course of the last 15 years, we have gone through many tax over the whole of the state, we have got taxes, we have got regulations for now, and the top 15 states in the country for taxes and regulation businesses. which is good, dude. but now, the more things are from businesses all the time, it is workforce. cannot find a town to think of any. cannot find a town to think of any, one of the other businesses cannot find any people to think of any. what is workforce mean? it might be anything for somebody who can pass a drug test to show up five days a week. that is one for us. might also mean somebody who is a phd, a dgnss to maybe help solve some amazing, kind of some amazing, curious for genetic diseases, things like that, which is also happening in my life. all of these things are workforce. and the governor and i wanted to do a great job, and help people throughout the continuum have access to the training and skills and these are really created by creating my own businesses to stay. and i will tell you this work story. i was with a guy called from a county to a student, got some county commissioners to learn today, and got a call from one of the most important class, boris kelly. and they said to me, we are very worried that our largest private sector is emerging in mexico. so that concerns me, so i get on the phone with a call, and they reassure me that no one on the way to mexico, but we do have some issues to talk to you about. so i said, down with the ceo of this company, and he says, we want to expand. we want to have two, three hundred jobs. they start out anywhere around $18 an hour up to high 20s. they will require anything with high school diploma and the passing of the test on great jobs. and then some other jobs in the ohio school of fame are more than that. so good jobs. but they said that, here's the deal, you have to group to us and you can supply the town. because we do not think you can. and if you cannot, you can move in either to another state or you are moving our expansion to mexico. that should happen. and let those things happen. and that is where our workforce is, and we are making sure we are building the town with across all aspects of our economy. so we all can get great jobs so they can support their families. and i was doing this today. i am a big fan of career centers. i have been here a little personally. i have been here for the first time. high school, i have been doing some good things. creating industry credentials. i was in line with that. the apollo for the first time. but the first time was a mile. because they are not like what career centers were. like these people made these efforts to shop class. no. it is much more than that. and education has changed. the nature of work has changed. you go to your person and they go find robots. you will find the ciders that you are doing in coding. yeah, you will also find welding. and machine and other types of skill. but it is everything. and you can earn college credits when you are there. and i know these things called sign names. it is your career centers. signs, what is the sign name? those people, how many buck out football fans do you have? couple of those. okay, now we are talking. we got a buck out football fans. sign name, i mean, people who are followed college football. sign name is like a religion. religious identity. who is coming to our school? they are designing the scholarship? we are going to get this great person. we are going to encourage centers and do signing names. those kids too. because celebrate what you want to borrow. i understand celebrating a great high school football quarterback. it is important. but celebrating the kids in high school. we are getting industry certifications and earning college credits. and going to work right high school. because they are trained and ready as we are celebrating too, is not it? that is what i am going on with celebrating. and that is what i am going on with celebrating another one today. because in many cases, i will tell you the story. i meet these young people. there is a company today that we were with. they were hiring five young people right out of high school. and a career path for them. and a company will pay for their college. that is a college scholarship too. you go to work, you are earning something. and if you are a college, they got a career path for you. that is pretty special. we should celebrate it. you celebrate the things you get more of it. that is what we are trying to do in our administration. because in the end, you will find a thing about what we are about. what we are about, what we are like to learn about, what we are trying to learn and brand about. what about opportunity? what about hope? giving people a chance to believe that no matter how you grew up in america, here in ohio, you have got a chance to live in america. i started up life in a foster home when i got adopted. but the degrees of god i might have had a pretty tough, tough childhood. but instead i got great parents. when i am a great child, not a good kid, gets that. not a good kid has parents that love and care for them. you give them what they need. and that is what we are trying to do. do more of them in this state. francho, fran, doing something with my daughter, dallae, and harbour foundation, trying to help every child from birth to five years old have a book after a whole meal to them every month. because in many cases, kids do not have. they are just supposed to learn to read a lesson. some of these give you these things. you mail them there again. and the study results show that when we do that, we just put these little books like the little engine that could, which is the first thing they have. how much, you know, great book, great metaphor for life, right? there may be no story, but just keep trying them. just keep trying until you make it. the theme is, i think, round and round. and that is what fran's doing. she is out there raising money from foundations and things like that to help make sure that every child in this state has access to a book. and tina is doing some great things. tell you what, if you have something you want to get done with a book to tina, a very private one that i came home from, clean one, and met these folks who run this program, called the open table. and what it is, is essentially a board of directors for a foster child, who is a ageing out. and that is who they are focused on. and this is what the group is focused on. and giving them some adults six to ten and they are now with them now in a deep life. and i told her about it. and her carrying big heart, she knows that should happen more recently. so the next thing you know, she is working on it. and she started it. and now she is got a bunch of tables started in columbus. and bringing adults from all walks of life in how these kids that are ageing out of foster parents, you have adults just get a shot. i know what you need to think about this because she is told me some great stories about this. and i will brag on her a little bit. it is not brag, it is a, it is a, it is a, it is a calling when you really dig into this. and you hear from me that everybody makes what you do this because here you have young adults that have no idea really ever cared for them or loved them in their lives. it is really there for them when they need it. and they are struggling. they got a lot of baggage that comes with it. and they need some stability. they need some friends. they need some kind of a city. that is what, that is what these adults are doing. helping us, young people, tina, tina started this and she is trying to spread it throughout ohio. we have learned that those we got a lot of kids out there that need help. more, more young people that need help than love her, find the adults to provide them that table. but the great thing about it is the unexpected thing is what all of those adults go around the table back in return because they start to appreciate the blessings and their lives. they start to understand that the world is not like the world that they live in. they need to be a little more compassionate, a little more caring, a little more understanding. when you get to know somebody who is from a different world than you are. helping people understand each other better, helps them grow closer, helps them understand that we are all, we are all united and got to hold. and then we got to help them. and that is what i believe we are as people, as americans and the minds of around our best. when we look out for people, we give them opportunity, we give them hope, and we give them a chance. because at the end i think that is what everybody wants. i just want somebody to care about them. they want a fair shot of mine. i think they are a chance for them to be american. and i really believe that, you know, all that would be perfect at it. that is what mike and i want to do in our work and stay government. that is what fran and tee want to be with the blessing that they have and their roles in the administration. and all of you are leaders in your own right. you are here today. and i am going to talk to you. i know all of you in the audience. i know a lot of you. there is somebody who looks up to you with the world. there is something that you can change about the world every day. and when we do that, that is the way we make america a better place. that is the way we create the right of future. i believe as every generation wants to do the world a little bit of place in the way we found it. so god bless you. god bless us all in this journey. and thank you very much for the opportunity to share this story with me.