 Oh God bless you all. Thank you so much. Thanks for being here and what I am wishing today above all else. What I am wishing for all Americans, whether they are born or unborn, is that they know peace, that they know love, and that they all might be touched by the grace of God. Thank you all. Okay, well thank you all so much for being here and standing up for life. This is important. We know how important it is. Back in 2015, I introduced a measure to redirect federal dollars for women's healthcare away from planned parenthood. Yes, thank you. And give that money to places like community health centers which provide greater healthcare services regardless of a person's ability to pay. Thank you because as we all know, planned parenthood is the nation's single largest provider of abortions. Thanks to the help and support of all of you, we saw a bipartisan, let me stress, bipartisan majority support my measure. And ultimately we sent it to the desk. But unfortunately folks, back then we did not have a president that respected life and he stopped us. Thankfully, today is a different story. Today, as you vice president, we have a pro-life president. We must keep fighting for those who are unable to protect themselves. So I am thrilled to announce today that this coming Monday, I will reintroduce that critical legislation to redirect planned parenthood funding. I will redirect planned parenthood funding to other eligible women's healthcare providers. I am also going to introduce a bill Monday to stop what some have referred to as president Obama's last gift to planned parenthood. Title 10. Representative Diane Black is joining me in this effort and it would scrap the Obama administration's 11th out of the rule that entrenched federal family planning funding for planned parenthood. Folks, we're going to stop it. We as a pro-life community honor the civil liberties, independence and strength of a woman, all women. And that means both supporting mothers and raising up to protect the most vulnerable in our society, the innocent babies who are unable to defend themselves. As a mother, as a grandmother and as a woman, thank you for joining me today and standing up and marching for life. God bless you all. And again, I want to say thank you God for giving us this day. Thank you all for being here. And again, we wish all Americans peace, love and that they will be touched by the grace of God. God bless the United States of America.