Press Releases
Print
Home
News
Press Releases
Jul
16
2025
Mast Provisions Advance in FY26 NDAA Markup
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Brian Mast
(FL-21) today announced the inclusion of five critical amendments in the
Fiscal Year 2026 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)
, reflecting his commitment to America’s warfighters, veterans, and national defense infrastructure. Backed with strong bipartisan support, these measures deliver results for service members, both past and present, while ensuring the Pentagon is able to preserve our nation’s security.
“This is more than just a defense appropriations bill—it’s a promise kept to every American in uniform,” said
Rep. Brian Mast
. “From honoring the legacy of our Navy SEALs to fixing broken bureaucracies that have failed our wounded warriors, these amendments are rooted in common sense and service. I’m grateful to my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee for their hard work on this year’s NDAA, and I’m proud to stand with our veterans and soldiers to get this bill passed.”
Rep. Brian Mast’s
amendments included in the FY2026 NDAA markup:
The SEAL Excellence, Achievement, and Loyalty (SEAL) Act
The
SEAL Act
designates the Navy SEAL Memorial in Fort Pierce, Fla., as a  national memorial. These sacred grounds at the birthplace of Naval Special Warfare honor the legacy and sacrifice of some of America’s most elite warriors.
GAMES Act
The
GAMES Act
ensures medically retired veterans are no longer excluded from participating in the Warrior and Invictus Games due to an arbitrary one-year limit after discharge. By eliminating this barrier, the amendment affirms the power of adaptive sports in the healing process and ensures all wounded warriors have the opportunity to benefit from these programs—regardless of when they served.
Wounded Warrior Bill of Rights
This amendment corrects a major failure in the Department of Defense’s (DoD) handling of medical separations. The
Wounded Warrior Bill of Rights
returns oversight of the disability evaluation process to the service branches to restore fairness, integrity, and the ability to challenge life-changing decisions. It ensures that our wounded warriors are not lost in bureaucracy.
Oath of Exit Act
This  amendment allows service members to take a voluntary “
Oath of Exit
” upon separation—reaffirming their own commitment to mental health, self-care, and service to fellow veterans. Whileveteran suicide is an ongoing national crisis, this act offers one more tool to help veterans navigate civilian life after service.
Defense Logistics Agency Data Infrastructure
This new Directive Report Language recognizes the critical role that logistics, asset management, and tracking play for preparing our nation’s military. Through this new language, the Director of Defense Logistics is directed to provide the House Committee on Armed Services with a brief, no later than May 30, 2026,  on the current state of DoD logistics, asset management data, and any commercially available improvements for asset management and tracking.
The bill now awaits consideration by the full House of Representatives.
Share This:
https://mast.house.gov/2025/7/mast
Related Links
Press Releases
Photos
Videos
Newsletter Signup
Share Your Opinion
Fill out the form below to share your comments with Rep. Mast.