Press Releases
Print
Home
News
Press Releases
Aug
13
2025
Mast Joins “The Brian Mudd Show” To Talk The One Big Beautiful Bill
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Brian Mast
spoke with Brian Mudd on
The Brian Mudd Show
this morning to discuss how the One Big Beautiful Bill delivers permanent tax relief for Americans, the importance of reducing the national debt, and the protection of Florida’s waterways.
Hear the full interview
here
.
On tax relief in the One Big Beautiful Bill:
If you’re driving to work right now, you’re keeping more money in your pocket because of the Big Beautiful Bill. We permanently lowered tax brackets at every level—if you used to pay 15 percent, you now pay 12 percent. If it was 25 percent, it’s now 22 percent. For bartenders and servers, the first $25,000 in tips is tax-free. For married couples on Social Security, you’ll have about $36,000 in write-offs before paying a dime in taxes. Bottom line: if you go to work, you walk away with more money in your pocket.
On the national debt:
Our target is to cut $4 billion a day from federal spending—about $1.5 trillion over the course of a year. Whether the funds come from tariff revenue, spending cuts, or other sources, we have a specific goal to go from just paying interest on the debt to paying down the principal. Just like paying down your home or car loan, this is about getting America out of debt.
On economic growth from tax cuts:
When Congress passed the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Democrats claimed revenues would fall. Instead, the economy grew, receipts increased, and everyone paid less. Cutting taxes again keeps this up—GDP rises—and Americans can keep more of what they’ve earned.
On Florida’s waterways and Everglades restoration:
The South Florida Water Management District often puts up half the funding for restoration projects, and they believe that they can get the work done faster and at a lower cost than the Army Corps. If they can deliver the same quality sooner and for less, that’s good stewardship of tax dollars. While I sometimes agree with the Corps’ work, I’ve been frustrated when they deviate from agreed-upon management plans without even giving them a full cycle for the results.
Share This:
https://mast.house.gov/2025/8/mast-joins-the-brian-mudd-show-to-talk-the-one-big-beautiful-bill
Related Links
Press Releases
Photos
Videos
Newsletter Signup
Share Your Opinion
Fill out the form below to share your comments with Rep. Mast.