Press Releases
Print
Home
News
Press Releases
Jun
06
2025
Mast Introduces Bills to Combat Toxic Water
Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman Brian Mast (FL-21)
introduced three bills today to fight back against toxins polluting Florida waterways. Each bill, the
Stop Poisoning Florida Act,
the
Toxic Health Threat Warning Act,
and the
Prioritizing Revised Operations to Eliminate Cyanobacteria Toxins in (PROTECT)  Florida Act
, is intended to improve public health and protect Florida’s one-of-a-kind ecosystem.
“We should not have to deal with discharges that the EPA itself acknowledges are a threat to people’s health, and the federal government should not be able to avoid responsibility
.
No one should have to worry about their kids getting sick or their dogs dying from the water in their own backyard,”
said Rep. Brian Mast
. “For years, the federal government has tried to turn its back on our communities while poisoning our community and I’ll continue to fight to hold the Army Corps accountable.”
The
Stop Poisoning Florida Act
would prohibit discharges from Lake Okeechobee at the Port Mayaca Lock and Dam and the St. Lucie Lock and Dam when the water exceeds the toxicity level that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has determined is too toxic for human contact.  At Rep. Mast’s urging, the EPA determined that 8 parts per billion of microcystin makes the water hazardous for people to come in contact with and puts them at risk of major health impacts.
Similarly,
the
Toxic Health Threat Warning Act
will require the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to notify the public and affected local governments if the water to be released from a flood risk management project is contaminated with cyanobacteria.  The goal is to end all hazardous discharges, but affected areas should, at the very least, be notified of the threat.
Finally, the
Prioritizing Revised Operations To Eliminate Cyanobacteria Toxins in (PROTECT) Florida Act
will amend the Army Corps’ operational priorities to
include
public health, in addition to existing charges of flood control, navigation, water supply, enhancement of fish and wildlife, and recreation.  The Army Corps’ current operational priorities do not consider impacts to human health, and this bill would amend the Corps’ charges to include public health and protect Florida’s citizens from serious health consequences.
The trio of bills was referred to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, on which
Rep. Mast
serves.
Share This:
https://mast.house.gov/2025/6/mast-introduces-bills-to-combat-toxic-water
Related Links
Press Releases
Photos
Videos
Newsletter Signup
Share Your Opinion
Fill out the form below to share your comments with Rep. Mast.