Daines, Newhouse Call on U.S. House to Pass Their Bill Increasing American Hydropower
November 25, 2025
U.S. SENATE – U.S. Senator Steve Daines (R-Mont.) and U.S. Representative Dan Newhouse (R-Wash.) today sent a letter to Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives Mike Johnson and House Majority Leader Steve Scalise urging swift passage of their “Build More Hydro” bill. Daines’ bill, which passed the U.S. Senate with unanimous consent in July 2025, would extend construction deadlines for critical hydropower projects nationwide and increase American energy production. “We write to you to urge the passage of S.1020 (H.R. 2072), our ‘Build More Hydro’ bill, a bipartisan bill that authorizes the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to extend construction deadlines for critical hydropower projects
Daines Honors Montanan of the Month: Brigadier General Dale Stovall
November 21, 2025
U.S. SENATE— U.S. Senator Steve Daines recognized Retired Brigadier General Dale Stovall for his courageous actions during the Vietnam War as Montanan of the Month. Through his “Montanan of the Month” initiative, every month Daines highlights a Montanan by submitting a statement of recognition in the Congressional Record, the document that reflects the official proceedings of Congress. To recommend a Montanan click HERE. The following is a statement submitted to the Congressional Record:  TRIBUTE TO BRIGADIER GENERAL DALE STOVALL Mr. Daines, Mr. President, today I have the honor of recognizing Brigadier General (Ret.) Dale Stovall of Missoula as Montanan of the Month for
Daines in Senate Finance Committee: Obamacare is Fundamentally Broken
November 19, 2025
U.S. SENATE – U.S. Senator Steve Daines today spoke with Brian Blase, President of Paragon Health Institute in a Senate Finance Committee hearing about the failures of Obamacare. Watch the full exchange HERE. Daines on Obamacare’s failures and reforms that are needed:  Daines: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this important and timely hearing on the rising cost of health care for Americans. At the center of this discussion is the future of the expiring Obamacare COVID subsidies. It is important to note that Democrats established these enhanced subsidies on a temporary and partisan basis during the pandemic under President Biden and elected to
Daines: Biden BLM’s Disregard for Montanans “Shameful”
November 19, 2025
“Those closest to the land should not be ignored or rejected” U.S. SENATE – U.S. Senator Steve Daines today spoke with Utah Attorney General Derek Brown and Micah Christensen from the Wyoming County Commissioners Association in a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing. They discussed the Biden administration’s blatant violations of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act (FLPMA) and the need to ensure state and local governments have a say in the planning process on issues that impact them most. Daines also discussed reliable electricity for Montana’s rural communities and the need to remove undue burdens on electricity providers. Watch
ICYMI: Washington Examiner: Steve Daines carves out shuttle diplomacy lane as Asia expert for Trump
November 10, 2025
U.S. SENATE – U.S. Senator Steve Daines spoke with the Washington Examiner about the future of U.S. relationships with Central Asia. Read the highlights below.  Steve Daines carves out shuttle diplomacy lane as Asia expert for Trump Washington Examiner David Sivak November 10th, 2025 Sen. Steve Daines (R-MT) is reprising his role as one of President Donald Trump’s top Senate allies on foreign policy, lending his experience in Asia for a flurry of diplomatic outreach. In an interview from his Senate office, Daines said he would be leading a bipartisan congressional delegation to China next spring, for what would be his second trip since Trump returned to
Daines on Fox Business: Schumer’s Plan is Nonsense
November 7, 2025
“Democrats Are Shutting Down the Entire Government Because of Subsidies That Were Always Meant to Expire” U.S. SENATE – U.S. Senator Steve Daines today joined Fox Business to discuss how Chuck Schumer is using Obamacare as political leverage to hold the government hostage. Watch the full interview HERE. Daines on how Schumer is using Obamacare to hold the government hostage: We want the shutdown to end immediately. It should’ve ended weeks ago. You look at the Fox charts at the moment- they are showing flights delayed, flights cancelled. This is only going to get worse. Secretary Duffy is having to take extraordinary action
Daines on Fox News: Democrats Should Stop Holding the American People Hostage and Open the Government
November 7, 2025
U.S. SENATE – U.S. Senator Steve Daines today joined Fox News America Reports to discuss the ongoing government shutdown and a path forward. Daines on the historic obstruction caused by Chuck Schumer and Senate Democrats: Well, look, we’ve offered this clean CR. We need to extend it now beyond November 21st because we’ve been shut down now for 38 days. We’re kicking out [the CR] probably to January sometime to give us enough time to do the appropriations of spending bills. We also want to put in maybe three appropriation bills as part of this package here, bipartisan bills. But sadly, I
ICYMI: Belgrade News: Daines hopes federal shutdown could end soon as flight delays surge, major cancellations loom
November 7, 2025
U.S. SENATE – U.S. Senator Steve Daines spoke with Belgrade News about the consequences of the Schumer Shutdown. Read highlights from the story below. Daines hopes federal shutdown could end soon as flight delays surge, major cancellations loom Belgrade News Mike Sunnucks November 6th, 2025 U.S. Sen. Steve Daines, R-Montana, is hopeful the record-long federal government shutdown could end “within the next few days.” Daines said there have been discussions with Democratic senators about bringing the shutdown, which began Oct. 1, to an end. Daines said five to 10 Democrats are part of those shutdown discussions. Senate Republicans need five Democrats to
Daines Emphasizes Strong Partnership Between U.S. and Central Asia at C5+1 Conference
November 6, 2025
U.S. SENATE – U.S. Senator Steve Daines today attended the C5+1 Tenth Anniversary Business Conference in Washington, D.C., where he delivered opening and closing remarks. Over the past 20 months, Daines has travelled to all five Central Asian countries and met with their presidents. Yesterday, Daines introduced a bill to end the outdated Jackson-Vanik trade restrictions that impact the region- read more HERE. Read Daines’ closing remarks as prepared for delivery below. There are few parts of the world that offer the opportunity that Central Asia does. Closer ties between our nations can bring greater economic opportunity to millions of people and secure