Skip to content
Home
About
Biography
Voting Record
Legislation
Committee Assignments
Official Headshot
News
Press Releases
In The News
Newsletter Signup
Services
Help with a Federal Agency
Tour Requests
Internships
Scheduling Requests
Schedule An Event
Schedule A Meeting
Appropriations
Resources For CDS Applicants
Academy Nominations
Senate Page Program
Flag Requests
Contact
Get In Touch
Newsletter Signup
Scheduling Requests
Mobile Navigation
Open Search
Close Search
Close Mobile Navigation
Newsroom
•
Press Releases
November 20, 2025
SENATOR ALSOBROOKS, CONGRESSWOMAN WATSON COLEMAN INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO ENSURE HEALTH CARE ACCESS FOR PREGNANT WOMEN
November 20, 2025
WASHINGTON, DC–
Today, Senator Angela Alsobrooks (D-Md.) and Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.-12) introduced the Healthy Maternal and Obstetric Medicine (MOM) Act. The Healthy MOM Act would ensure that all women eligible for coverage through the Affordable Care Act (ACA) insurance marketplaces, as well as women eligible for other individual or group health plan coverage, can access affordable health care coverage throughout their pregnancies. The bill would establish a special enrollment period (SEP) for expectant mothers. Currently, marriage, divorce, having a baby, adoption, and changing jobs are considered qualifying life events that trigger a special enrollment period; however, becoming pregnant is not considered a qualifying event. The Healthy MOM Act would change that.
The Healthy MOM Act is cosponsored by Senators Van Hollen (D-Md.), Baldwin (D-Wis.), Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Booker (D-N.J.), Cortez Masto (D-Nev.), Duckworth (D-Ill.), Fetterman (D-Pa.), Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Kaine (D-Va.), King (I-Maine), Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Merkley (D-Ore.), and Murray (D-Wash.).
“We have a responsibility to ensure pregnant women have access to the best health care. The Healthy MOM Act would trigger a special enrollment period so expectant mothers can get critical health care coverage for themselves and their baby, building on the example of my own state of Maryland. As Republicans try to rip away health care from Americans, including mothers, I’m proud to fight back and partner with Congresswoman Watson Coleman to expand access to affordable care for new mothers,”
said Senator Alsobrooks.
“Events like the birth or adoption of a child, marriage, divorce, or even moving to a new state all trigger a special window to get or change your health insurance. Meanwhile, pregnancy, one of the most life-altering events a mother can experience, doesn’t,”
said Congresswoman Watson Coleman.
“We’re dealing with maternal mortality rates that are, in some places and among some groups, worse than developing nations. It is inexcusable that the United States, the wealthiest nation on Earth, has such a high maternal mortality rate. Ensuring every woman can access the care she needs during pregnancy and after giving birth is a critical part of ending this crisis. This is a simple, logical way to make sure that happens.”
“Access to affordable health care is essential to every pregnant person’s safety and well-being, but it remains out of reach for far too many. We need to make it easier for pregnant mothers to get care – and creating a special enrollment period through the ACA marketplaces would do just that. This legislation will help more expectant mothers get the coverage they need to stay healthy throughout pregnancy and beyond,”
said Senator Van Hollen.
“As a mother, I know firsthand that your health care needs can change when you become pregnant, and you should have the option to change your coverage to address them,”
said Senator Gillibrand.
“Especially as Republicans continue to put up barriers to health coverage enrollment and block efforts to lower costs, we must keep pushing to make care accessible for everyone. I am proud that our legislation would allow pregnant women to access affordable coverage that best meets their evolving needs, and I will keep fighting to get it across the finish line.”
“While pregnancy can be a joyous time, it also comes with unique health risks that deserve real attention,”
said Senator Cortez Masto.
“No mother should have to navigate those risks without access to the high-quality, affordable health care they need for a safe pregnancy and a healthy baby.”
“Moms deserve affordable, accessible health care––full stop. No one should have to fight an insurance company or put off care because they don’t have the money,”
said Senator Fetterman.
“Our country’s maternal mortality rate is too high, and this bill is a step toward improving health outcomes for mothers and children. We should be doing what we can to help them get the coverage and care they need, when they need it.”
“When a woman gets pregnant, she should be able to enroll in or change health coverage, no matter what time of year it is. But right now, pregnancy isn’t a qualifying life event—and that blocks women across the country from signing up for health coverage when they find out they’re expecting, or changing plans for coverage that better meets their needs. Our Healthy MOM Act will fix this gap and take a small but important step to help more women get the prenatal care they need to stay healthy,”
said Senator Patty Murray.
“The Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine (SMFM) enthusiastically endorses the Healthy Maternal and Obstetric Medicine Act introduced by Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman and Sen. Angela Alsobrooks,”
said SMFM President Sindhu K. Srinivas, MD, MSCE
. “Ensuring access to quality, affordable prenatal and postpartum care through expanding health insurance coverage is vital to improving maternal and infant health and lowering the unacceptably high maternal mortality rate in the U.S.”
“Every pregnancy deserves the dignity of timely, affordable, and comprehensive care. The Healthy MOM Act moves us closer to that reality,”
said Erin Erenberg, CEO, Chamber of Mothers. “
For too long, mothers’ basic needs have been treated as afterthoughts. By recognizing pregnancy as a qualifying life event and guaranteeing continuous coverage during the fragile and transformative postpartum year, this bill extends the support that we know mothers and families need and benefit deeply from. When we build policies that support maternal health, we strengthen the well-being and economic stability of entire communities. Chamber of Mothers is proud to support this legislation and the message it sends — that caring for mothers is a national priority.”
As of 2019, pregnant women in Maryland are eligible for a Special Enrollment Period (SEP) to enroll in or change their health insurance plan, regardless of whether they are already enrolled in a plan. This SEP, which lasts for 90 days from the time the woman discovers she’s pregnant, allows her to enroll, change, or select a new health plan. Because of laws like this, Maryland now has record insurance enrollment numbers. The Healthy MOM Act would support pregnant women across the nation.
The Healthy MOM Act is endorsed by Chamber of Mothers, Society for Maternal-Fetal Medicine, National Partnership for Women and Families, MomsRising, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and March of Dimes.
Read full text of the bill
here
.
###
Print
Email
Share
Share
Prev
Previous
Next
Next