Skip to content
Home
About
Biography
Voting Record
Legislation
Committee Assignments
Official Headshot
News
Press Releases
In The News
Newsletter Signup
Services
Help with a Federal Agency
Tour Requests
Internships
Scheduling Requests
Schedule An Event
Schedule A Meeting
Appropriations
Resources For CDS Applicants
Academy Nominations
Senate Page Program
Flag Requests
Contact
Get In Touch
Newsletter Signup
Scheduling Requests
Mobile Navigation
Open Search
Close Search
Close Mobile Navigation
Newsroom
•
Press Releases
November 7, 2025
DMV SENATORS CONTINUE TO FIGHT FOR CIVIL SERVANTS, INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO PAUSE MORTGAGE PAYMENTS FOR FEDERAL WORKERS
November 7, 2025
WASHINGTON, DC
– As covered tonight in
Punchbowl News
, Senators Angela Alsobrooks (D-Md.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Mark Warner (D-Va.), and Tim Kaine (D-Va.) introduced the Federal Worker Mortgage Forbearance Act. This bill would require 90 days of mortgage forbearance for federal workers and contractors with federally-backed mortgage loans.
“In this Republican shutdown, the longest shutdown in American history, our federal workers and contractors have been callously left behind. These patriots shouldn’t be used as political pawns by Republicans. I’m introducing the Federal Worker Mortgage Forbearance Act so that federal workers and contractors will not face foreclosure because Republicans can’t do their one job – govern,”
said Senator Alsobrooks.
“Our dedicated federal employees and contractors shouldn’t pay the price for a shutdown that’s entirely beyond their control. This legislation ensures that the risk of foreclosure isn’t an added burden on these public servants while they’re going without pay. While we work to protect these workers, we will keep fighting to end the Republican shutdown with a government funding agreement that reins in Trump’s lawlessness and prevents health care costs from skyrocketing for millions of Americans,”
said Senator Van Hollen.
“As our dedicated public servants continue to do their jobs without pay during this government shutdown, the least we can do is ensure that they do not lose the roof over their head. I’m proud to introduce this legislation to provide needed forbearance for federal workers and contractors as they continue to struggle nearly 40 days into this government shutdown,”
said Senator Warner.
“I’m glad to have worked to secure the passage of legislation that President Trump signed in 2019 to guarantee backpay for federal workers in the event of shutdowns,”
said Senator Kaine
. “But I know that’s not the same as getting a check on time. That’s why in the meantime, I’m working with my colleagues to put forward commonsense legislation to help these workers shift some of their financial responsibilities, including this bill to pause payments for those with federally-backed mortgage loans. I will keep doing all that I can to advocate for relief for our dedicated federal workers and to find a solution to reopen the government.”
The Federal Worker Mortgage Forbearance Act has been endorsed by the National Federation of Federal Employees (NFFE-IAM) and the National Treasury Employees Union (NTEU).
Read the full bill text
here
.
Read more from Punchbowl News
here
.
###
Print
Email
Share
Share
Prev
Previous
Next
Next