Skip to content
Home
About
Biography
Voting Record
Legislation
Committee Assignments
Official Headshot
News
Press Releases
In The News
Newsletter Signup
Services
Help with a Federal Agency
Tour Requests
Internships
Scheduling Requests
Schedule An Event
Schedule A Meeting
Appropriations
Resources For CDS Applicants
Academy Nominations
Senate Page Program
Flag Requests
Contact
Get In Touch
Newsletter Signup
Scheduling Requests
Mobile Navigation
Open Search
Close Search
Close Mobile Navigation
Newsroom
•
Press Releases
November 10, 2025
ALSOBROOKS NO ON CR FINAL PASSAGE
November 10, 2025
WASHINGTON, DC
– Tonight, Senator Angela Alsobrooks (D-Md.) re-released the following statement:
“I voted NO tonight on the final passage of the CR proposed yesterday.
“I have voted eight separate times to reopen the government. And each of those times, I voted for a CR that addresses the health care crisis Republicans have unleashed on working families across this country.
“After weeks of refusing to negotiate, Senate Republicans finally put forth a new CR that reaffirms their indifference to the health care crisis and growing unaffordability of our country.
“As I looked at this new CR, I am glad to see it includes language I fought for to reverse the draconian RIFs.
“But, I have maintained from the beginning of this Republican shutdown that I could not vote for anything that does not address the rising health care costs.
“The first 11 months of this Administration have been a disaster. Marylanders are struggling to pay their bills because of soaring energy costs and grocery prices. Patriotic civil servants have been fired after years of dedicated service. Our economy has been wrecked by chaotic tariffs. And after all that, Republicans put forth a CR yesterday that does absolutely nothing to help struggling Marylanders afford health care.
“I made a promise to the people of Maryland that I would always vote in their best interests. That’s why I voted NO.”
###
Print
Email
Share
Share
Prev
Previous
Next
Next