we are going to be here today for the first time in the country. joining us right now is florida congressman elect cory mills. consman elect. congratulations to you. thanks very much for being here. tell us about your race and what we are seeing in florida today. well, thank you so much. i appreciate it. it is great to be standing here as a congressman elect for florida 7th district. i think what you saw in florida, however, is that a lot of people are already voting with their feet escaping blue states like new york coming to florida and not wanting to see a lot of what they just left. i think that is why we are going to see the first time in the country. we realized that florida fought against the political science and opted for medical science when it came to covid that we maintained our schools open. it was a while when number three in the country and lower and then middle education. lowest taxes and second lowest taxes in the country. no state tax. freedom really exists here in florida, but i will tell you, governor ron desanck is an amazing job, not just campaigning for himself, but also campaigning for all florida candidates on numerous occasions. he had me at his rallies to support the state. he recognized me throughout the entire race here in central counties, while for in belusia. i think that he really just fought for florida candidates and doing sure that florida goes more red. yeah, and we saw that. what disinterested campaigning big. you, of course, it worked for you. you had a big win against your democrat opponent to karen green, flipping florida 7th district red for the first time. in how many years, what do you do now with it? where are your priorities? what do you do now? what do you do now? what do you do now? what do you do now? what do you do now? what do you do now? what do you do now? what do you do now? what do you do now? i was. i did not recognize how this situation actually was, and i did not recognize that you were just simply grateful for the priorities once you got working. the priorities are deliver on the campaign promises that we made. you know, for too long, you have got republicans who are stopping a political rhetoric alone. we need to be a person of action now. that is one of the things that cd-7 understood. you know, i am a united states army combat veteran. i did go to afghanistan during the afghan bosh withdrawal to save american during hurricane. during hurricane ian i was will recognize me for as a person of action, not a person of cheap talk. uh, congressman, elect, uh, were you surprised by what happened last night? i mean, obviously, florida, we did see it go ruby red, but when it came to these other states, like pennsylvania, uh, it seems that, uh, republicans fell short. do you believe that it is because, they did not hold biden accountable or was it that we were just outspent and out-organized? well, life former speaker, new gingrich said, i think a lot of analysis is going to need to take place here because there was a couple of races that truly shocked me. uh, myra flores, texas 34, casey garcia, texas as well, catalina lof and, uh, illinois, uh, the federalman oswreys and pennsylvania. there is a lot of things that we need to be looking at. i think that it is time now for leadership and for the entire republican party to understand exactly what america's real focus is. and i think that we need to continue to try and get better at messaging and getting our message out there for the rest of the populace. you know, this is not about just talking about the spear tactics of this or that. it is about really saying, here's the issues and here's the solutions, not just bringing up what the problem is are because every american is facing these problems, seeing these problems, feeling these problems, whether it is the economic impacts or whether it is, you know, other things. so we really need to do a better job at messaging and put them together solutions. well, we have been talking about that for a long time. good needs to do a better job messaging. congressman electro, you are going to be watching you. we so appreciate you trying this morning and of course your service to this great country. thank you so much. koi mills. enjoying this. thank you so much, maria. i will see you soon.