so i get that question more than any other. so why are you going for congress or why you want to be elected official? this is my backyard. this is where i was born in morriggas. i was born here in central florida. i grew up just like so many other americans that are here, so many other floridians. i came from a broken home where my mom and dad both suffered from drug addiction and drug abuse. they were in and out of the jail and prison systems. i made my father, he did more time in prison than what some people would get for a committee worker. and that was just the way the judicial system worked back then. but i was lucky with my grandparents. they actually took me and adopted me and became my actual parents. and so that was that whole first introduction to what is a nuclear family. we were very traditional. we ate it. the dinner table every single night, unless my grandfather was a welder, did not get back in time. my grandmother and i would wrap his plate and put it in the oven until they came home type thing. and you do not like it that 20, 30 minutes, like many kids who come from a blue collar family where they talk to their dad right before they get to bed because they have class the next day type thing. we would be church every single sunday. it was a technical family here in central florida. obaminate to say we are so big on our guns and vibos, right? that really is though. central florida, the beltway, kind of blue collar america. and where we grew up. so having raised in like that kind of work ethic where it was all about what you put into something is what you get out of it. and that was what my grandfather was. when i went to high school, again, right here in the eye for a corridor area, it was one of those things where going in wrestling in high school and playing football in high school, these were things that just came natural about work ethic. it is about working hard. i mean, even coach harley arrested coach just to say, hard times make hard mint. and i was remembered that and we are in hard times right now. we are in hard times economically. we are in hard times here in central florida, especially with the open border crisis with regards to opioid addiction and all the things that my family still struggles with today. so it is important to understand where i came from is no different than every other american in this area. you are many of the americans in this area. i noted this to chrome poverty. i noted this to eat rice and tomato gravy three nights out of the five. and i said, i do not know, it is one of the things that i used to hate. now all of a sudden, i create this sometimes when i go back home, i last my grand thought of, i cannot make this in some corporate. and you know, just kind of get back to like, you know, what it was as far as that whole state will be eating. but you know, knowing how hard our family worked and knowing the opportunities that our country's given us, that is why i went into the military. that is why i wanted to serve our nation, the greatest nation in the world. and that is why, you know, even though we went off and we fought these endless wars, which are not for these are not wars that are selected by the soldiers. these are not wars that are, you know, necessarily picked or voted on by the war fighter. they are voted on people, you know, hundreds of miles away and washington dc, who do not understand what these wars actually involve. they do not understand the ramifications to these endless wars in this nation building that george w. bush mentality. and that is why we need more veterans who are in congress who understand what happens wherever they vote for these wars and who understand the ramifications and what we need to do after the war fighter needs to battlefield. that is what it is about. it is about getting down to the people who understand what it is to be doing so correct.