let us bring in florida congressman and former us army sniper corey mills. what kind of shot was this corey from 130 yards? look at the end of the day. this is a shot that your basic training boot camp soldier is requested to make within their nine week period. this is one of the easiest shots and they train all the way out till 300 or 500. and when i was doing the congress sniper, it was not with the united states army. it was actually when i was with the state department and was doing this exact thing, which is trying to look at going out with an advanced team, establishing what the perimeter is. and then as a sniper, when you would set up, you would put together your range sketch or your range fan cards. and that would tell you where you are 100, you are 200, you are 300, and you would identify the areas of threat that you would be able to mitigate. and if there is multiple targets, you understand that your elevation and windage knob would not have to be messed with, especially at 160 yards. you could literally just look quickly glance and know from the reference point, whether it be a building, whether it be a lone tree, whether it be a parking lot, maybe it is a road. bottom line is that this is massive negligence to the point of me speculating on what was intentional and what was not. wow. when you are doing a site survey and you are seeing this rooftop, not that far away. why did it look like the counter sniper team was a little surprised? you know, i can only speculate and we will have to wait until the investigation comes out that they thought local law enforcement was potentially climbing up onto the roof when they saw a dark object on a light roof. but here's the issue. wait a minute. you are saying maybe they misconstrued crooks for a friendly for local law enforcement. it is very possible. i do not want to speculate into the investigation is over. but the bottom line is that if you saw someone climbing going to a roof that you had not authorized any clearance on, it is got a clear line of sight. it is exactly adjacent to the shooting where the president was sitting and you are talking about a pop shot and you have got people yelling and there should have been comms. the minute that that local law enforcement who apparently had a rifle pointed on, there should have been an emergency frequent comms channel that they could have said we have a shooter on the roof, shooter on the roof, secret service should have rushed the stage and immediately took the president and took him off and then responded the counter sniper. the shot should not have gone off. that is the failure in itself. you are supposed to be able to try and you know, the best security is when you go in and you are actually able to prevent an incident, not react to an incident. even if you would have left a law enforcement officer's patrol car in that parking lot with the lights on, that could have been a deterrent. but when you have nothing that is actually showing force protection, you are encouraging this. look, i am not sure about who the individuals are on the individual detail, secret service, but i can tell you under this biden administration, the one thing i have seen is massive dei hires. and i can tell you when you primary, when you primarily go after dei, you end up with die. so when you have these counters, snipers waiting until eight rounds are fired, what accounts for that? to be honest with you, after the first shot, you get a return fire immediately. the minute that a shot rang out, they should have already been on scope. your spotter should have already have called the distance. if you had not looked at your range cart and you should have immediately engaged, there should have been no reason to have waited a single second. now i talked to eric trump after the incident. eric and i are both gun enthusiasts. we both shoot long distance. that right there is a pop shot, but he did say i have gone out with the cs teams and they are one of the best. i have he knows the actual service detail, the two of them, they are loyal individuals who actually do care about the president. i can say that was that was relate to me, but the bottom line is this is a massive security breach. this is a huge failure at negligence is at best, but we have to figure out why something within 200 yards. think about this, jesse, 200 yards. that means that an average rifle that holds one minute of angle would hold a two inch grouping if you just shot it straight off the deck, meaning on the on a platform. so now you are talking about 160, which is 1.6 inches is what its grouping capabilities are. the average head is what six by eight shoulder to shoulders 20 inches head to waste is 40 inches and president trump's a very large man. this is a shot that within five minutes, i could teach you to make nine out of 10 times. so this is divine intervention. this is the god having his protective hand and wearing a fusion six, the armor of god over the president because this is right here, a millisecond or a millimeter in change. and this is an attempted assassination. this is an assassination of a president. the devil was in butler, pennsylvania, but so was god. well, and i can say one more thing if i may, which is that let us also remember that king henry, this second went in and said, can no one rid me of this turbulent priest and his, king his nights went out and killed the archbishop of canavera because they thought that was a direct order. what do you say when president biden says we should time to put a target on trump? that in my opinion is the insightful rhetoric. that is the stuff that they would have went after for the j6 stuff. so why do not we have our own j 13 investigation? there needs to be a full investigation on this. absolutely. and it needs to not be crooked like some of these other former investigations were. that is right. politicians. mills are the best. thank you. thank you. click here to subscribe to the fox news youtube page to catch our hottest interviews and most compelling analysis. you will not get it anywhere else.