in 10 days we have the opportunity to join the slum. it is time to bring an outsider from florida to dc. it is time to bring common sense from florida to dc, a business name. someone that is going to make america safer, affordable, and is going to make america great again. please help me welcome our next congressman, corey news. i think you guys can hear me without the mic, right? yeah, we do not hire. use the military voice. alright, so let me give you a quick 30,000 foot view on me. then i am going to go ahead and just talk about a couple of things and then turn it over. so i am a six-generation flaredie and i was born and raised in central florida. a little tiny town called winner haven. then i grew up in auburn bay. i am not going to graduate from high school. i ended up going off to the military serving the united states army. i served in the 82nd airborne division, served with j. sox, t.j. k.i. 24, iraq, which is the joyce bishop operations command. and then decided that after my military service, i wanted to come back and kind of get back to my community. i came back, i started college at unf, right up the street at q2j, which is right there in jacksonville. i lived there for a few years and found another need for the government to call me back. went back to service for another five years, held overseas, and wars that we all can admit has done nothing for us as a nation. wars at over two and a half decades has spent trillion dollars. wars at over the last two and a half decades cost thousands of more americans. you know, our whole concept for trying to go after those who come after us, i am not opposed to. the idea of ensuring that the whole land is safe. i am not opposed to. the idea of interventionism and nation building is where i have my biggest issues. if we were to step to a counterterrorism operation that actually went after those who are responsible in this stock, i could have actually gotten behind that, but the reality is it became political football. when i saw that this political football was going on, i was seeing where the decrons and the needle lips were the ones who were actually enriching themselves off these wars. wars are a lot of the guys that i served with that did not come home to. that is where i started having an issue. when i came back, i wanted to start looking at job creation. i believe very strongly that the private sector creates jobs, not the federal government. federal government, we see it as business owners, they stifle us, they overregulate us, they overtac us. they try and force us to shut down with unconstitutional mandates. this is not job creation. as someone who has signed the front-up checks, not just the back of checks, i can tell you that we need to empower our private sector to remove federal government from our lives. i am a huge advocate of limiting federal government over each. i am a huge advocate of state and individual rights. i do not think that a federal government needs to tell us how to raise our children. i do not think that the federal government needs to tell us how to do our business in florida. i do not think that the federal government has a right to step into our homes to tell us how to live our lives. you see, i believe in something which is the enabling of both rights. this in my opinion, mr. patis, our constitution, lives our god-given rights, things like the right to protection that we take as the second amendment. thinking about the rights of us being able to have the right to parents to tell the federal government what our children will not be taught. we do not need sexualization in our schools. what we need is we need civics, we need history, we need mathematics, we need english, we need the skills to actually advance our children. not federal government trying to indoctrinate them with crt and things like the 1619 project. you see, in my personal opinion, the federal government has tried, and again, we just talked to a few minutes ago, after the 17th amendment, you saw this federal growth that occurred because our u.s. senders used to be controlled by our state legislator. they are actually elected by us. what you saw in 1913 was two things that were bad. one, 16th amendment, federal income tax. i am a consumer taxpayer tax guy. i do not think anything that we earn or anything we invest should be taxed. you really want to worry about fair tax? tax, they are what are the same. now, the other thing is that i do not think that our department of education should be setting the standards for each of our individual states. i also do not have that idea that taxation on us allows the department of education, for example, to control who gets the large government and federal contracts for our poofs. they do not understand. i grew up like, for example, as a young kid, with allergies. and i was adopted by my grandparents and came from a bit of a broken home. my mom and dad were both drug addicts and had substance abuse issues and were in and out of prison my entire life. so i was kind of homeless and bounced to house to house, tap surfing with my friends and tell us about nine years old whenever my grandparents finally found out and adopted me. but i remember that my grandparents were really big on the ideas of having orange blossom honey at a certain time, which made sure i had this, this means to stop. what i would like to see is the federal government does not control where our poofs come from. that money which has passed from there stays within the states is allocated to the individual counties allocated individual schools, let the schools do the rfp rfq. so we actually support businesses in our local areas, support local growers in our areas. see, i am an agriculture guy. i believe in the idea that food security is directly related to national security, which is why i do not care if you call me a xenophobic. i do not care if you look at my skin and say i have some kind of specialized privilege. i believe that we should have zero foreign ownership and support for our land in america. eight percent, eight percent, the florida gdp, 1.8 billion is based on agriculture. but here's the worst part. we could far exceed that. florida provides 80 percent of sugar to the rest of the country. but yet it is constantly being vilified by federal agencies like epa that in my opinion needs to be abolished. we also need to take a further step not just to, as i talked about the 16th amendment, but talk about the idea of what is really a key to state police force. that is what that 87,000 irs agents are. that is why they need $600,000 in small caliber ammunition. that is why they have roles, responsibilities like issuing deadly force, like being able to detain, being able to do search and seizure. that does not sound like auditors looking to try to come out to your tax and your $1040 ez. that sounds like someone who understands that you will comply much easier at the end of a barrel than you will end of an evening. that is why i will not fund. the one thing federal congress has is the purse strings. and i will not fund the 87,000 deep state irs agents. i will not do it. i also believe in giving americans their freedom back. and i think that the only way we can do that is by repealing the patriot act. i think the patriot act is put in place to actually spy on us. that is exactly what we have seen. think this for one moment. as someone who worked in the trump administration who has actually endorsed our president trump, we just watched where the federal government violated his fourth amendment rights as a former president of the united states. in my opinion, the actual president of the united states. i support 50 state audit because we know where the fraud came in. and here's my old thing. if you do not believe that there is any fraud whatsoever, you do not need to be in this room. i will be honest with you. because it is not about how large or how small point is is that if we are trying to continually make sure that we are a more perfect union, that we are the constitutional republic that we try to represent, then we should always be open to the ideas of a 50 state audit ensuring that we limit any and all fraud that happens in our elections. so my biggest thing is this. i believe in ensuring that our federal government is limited in its overreaching to our lives. i believe in u.s. term limits and hope that we see a 34 state convention of states that allow a u.s. term limit to occur for state and house. i believe in ensuring that we do not take our down ballot voting for granted any longer. we really need to understand that these mayoral, these city council, these school boards, that we have been taking for granted in trying to prop up these federal graces to be sometimes just celebrity congressional caucus, is not what is important in our day to day lives. if anyone is a constitutionalist, you understand the first three articles and why they are so aptly architect. the first article which covers legislation is about three times the length of everything else. the second, which is the executive, is obviously about half that length in the third, which is judiciary, is about a third of the actual half that the executive branch has. the reason why is because they understood that they only give the most powers and big roles and responsibilities to those that the american people have the most outreach and most touch with. that was intentional. but over time we have continued to dwindle down and dilute the actual state legislators roles, roles like our great representative here. so i encourage everyone, and as i have even talked with tara and i have talked with abiyah, i think as republicans we need to come together and understand that when we go out, we cannot have this idea where at the federal level i have got 30 and 40 walkers out there knocking doors and we are getting the votes out, we are doing all this. meanwhile, we are ignoring what is happening at the state and local levels. we need to actually be working more together, where my 30, 40 walkers is walking for you. your five or six volunteers are working for us. your two or three is actually coming together. that is how we build better community. that is how we build a stronger state. we must understand that it is really getting back to the basics of constitutionalism. it is about making sure that we stop things like esg and this blokeism in our corporations. stopping crt in our military, which has now led to a 15,000 person reduction in shortage. stopping crt in indoctrination, sexualization of our children in our schools. i believe very simply, less for zero, crt in esg and a lot more god. come on. god is one of the main things that they have continued to attack. we know that is one of the fundamental truths that we are as our constitution is based on today of christian beliefs. our built on those in the middle of the rest i talked about. the left has continued to try and win a list down, little by little, first by trying to act as if we have an agnostic or godless constitution. but how did all of our founding fathers sign their names and their actual documents in the year of our lord? does not sound too godless or agnostic to me. the other thing that we understand is that whenever the left or socialist and marxists are allowed to remove faith, remove god from our schools, from our houses, from our communities, that their next thing is to go ahead and continue to divide us. and they have gone forth and they have continued to do this, utilizing our ignorance in our silence. we are the majority of far too long moving the silent majority. i do not believe in the corrupt practices are going on. i believe in banning the ideas that any elected official in the federal government should be able to buy, sell and trade stocks, their spouse or anyone who works on the role of you. it should be about public service, not personal enrichment. every one of our founding fathers or successful businessmen, they left their tobacco crops, their agriculture, their distilleries for those who understand the history of george washington and his libraries. and they would go off to washington, let me tell you, they were eager to get back to their successful businesses. well, over time, we have flipped that. and we have made politics now a very, very financially beneficial business, where people are going in and making all their riches there and then basically not wanting to come back and turn it home. we should not be creating this as a career. no one understands public service like those of us who have actually fought uniform. let me tell you something. when we take that oath, just because we remove our uniform does not mean that oath expires. we believe in the ideas of fighting for our constitution against all of these before domestic. but the reality is that the enemy within is right here at home, domestic. we do not need to fund, and again, i have said this, and i will continue to say, i am not an interventionist, but i am not an isolationist. i am a protectionist. protecting american rights and liberties, protecting our borders and our sovereignty, protecting our way of life, protecting american exceptionalism. these are things that we should all be able to subscribe to. these are left to right issues. these are democratic or public and issues. these are america versus anti-america issues. in my business, we actually support over 200 law enforcement departments, swot, hrt, srts. i can tell you right now that one thing that we stand for and we believe in this idea of defending our law enforcement, not defunding our law enforcement. it is all easy to this. i have got a couple of things that i have been talking about as far as bills that we have drafted. i do not believe in new this ojt. we step in and we just play the freshman card and follow leadership. leadership does not elect me in. the people elect me. the party does not elect me in that. the people elect me in. that is also the same reason that in order to not be corrupt or taken in any way, i am volunteering 100% of my salary to be donated back into the community to a woman's child or better children. i believe in fighting for the people. i believe that is a conviction that i have since birth. i believe that i have been spared continuously in multiple situations to be here right now. seeing what is happening in ukraine, i have been a geopolitical analyst. i know where and what is going on when it comes to the russian china and iran's geopolitical alignment. i know that kinetic warfare does not make us safer abroad, but economic resource dominance does. i believe in the idea is that we cannot stay as a superpower. we do not get in control of our gross domestic production, our security of our nation. we have to take that $80 plus billion that we are fraudulently and corruptly placing in countries like ukraine and invest those here at home. we need to build two refineries so that we have the ability. we need to make sure we get the keystone as a pipeline in play. we need to make sure that we open more federal lands, exploration, more drill permits, more concessions, and understand that the currency of the world is energy. we have the ability tomorrow to make lives cost affordable. we should be a society that lived on a single income family. now we can barely survive on two income families. we know that 40-year inflation is not just by mistake, but it is a plan to the modern monetary theory, the idea by the left and socialist that i can create enough debt because i create my own currency to make more currency to then drive up more inflation. because what am i trying to achieve? demand destruction. they know that what is happening abroad with the china-russia-iran-1 road-1 belt initiative is to try and cut off all of our supply chains for western hemisphere. because russia, china, and iran will control africa, oceania, the eurasian expansion, which gives them the horn of africa, black sea, red sea, mediterranean, where all of our actual supplies come in and out. and meanwhile, to advance this, we have the left who is trying to attack fossil fuels and american energy. going towards renewables, not reliables, renewables, where china controls 15 to 16 very mineral mines. we do not harvest cobalt, nickel, lithium here at home. in fact, we just gave $1.3 trillion in lithium to the chinese when we handed over afghanistan. so the reality is this, you want lower costs to cool and heat your house, natural gas, right here in america. you want to put trucks on the road, transport supplies, get us back and forth to work cheap, make sure our tractors run, oil and gas. no, right in the road. you are a baby thrill. so i do not support the ideas of us continuing to fund and support adversarial nations like china and russia. we are out to destroy us. we are out to eliminate the u.s. dollar of being a global currency. we are out to try and drag us into the quagmire of another endless war that will not result in us being any freer or more powerful. but we will actually end up revolving us to have more americans, more sons, more husbands, more fathers lost. and start resulting in billions and billions of dollars being wasted. our money is taxpayers. to seeing our economy start to dwindle because their ultimate goal is they will not be happy until they have removed god from our lives. they have destroyed our constitution. they have created the who and wes as the new world singular government order, which is what they want. and they want to empower everyone else while impacting us militarily, diplomatically, and economically and politically. we need people in washington who actually have the moral courage to call out things. i wish there was a machine that the grace medical invention of the world would be a machine that could actually inject a spine and have people repulpate his own actions. i mean, they say as inverters that we are not supposed to be able to walk upright and somehow politicians do it every day. so i took that from ted cruz. he just said that yesterday was hilarious. but the reality is that i was not elected in. i did not have any pack and lobbies in my corner. i funded my own campaign. i did not drift off the american people. i am donating my salary back. i pledge my wife, myself, and others will not buy and sell and trade stocks. i guess what i also will not be silenced, whether it is by the left or right, by leadership. is they owe nothing to me? i owe nothing to them. i owe everything to you. love your courage.