joining us now is corey mills. he is a decorated us combat veteran in the co-founder of paisam solutions. corey, when we look at exactly what the president was talking about yesterday, there were some things, one regarding flag burning, one regarding statues. i want to just start with really briefly the idea of flag burning. the supreme court has said that that is a form of free speech. you of course have served yourself. a lot of people say that it is a slap in the face essentially to a lot of people who have fought for those very freedoms to burn the flag. so what is your response to the whole idea of flag burning? is it something that you think maybe we should revisit? yes, absolutely. i mean, look, the truth is is that i have seen so many of my brothers who had to come home with a flag draped coffin. that flag represents what we are as a nation. that flag represents our liberties. it represents the blood that is been spilled in order to maintain and keep our freedoms. you know, just other day i i heard something which was absolutely absurd. you had brett far trying to compare pat tillman, a known and decorated war hero who sacrificed two careers, not only his life in the military, but also his life to make millions with colin kaepernick, who shows no respect whatsoever for the flag and takes a knee. you know, the idea that brett far, the nfl and nascar and all the rest continue to pander is really insulting not only to veterans like myself, but all those who are serving. and it is kind of an interesting debate too because of course it would have to go to the supreme court and the president has had two supreme court nominees throughout his tenure so far. and if the possibility to were to open up where he could appoint someone else, this is an issue that could actually be revisited by the court. and in fact, kavanaugh and gorsuch has said that they would be willing to revisit some old standing. so it might be something to keep an eye on as well. but i do want to pivot now also to the idea of statues. that is something that we have seen taking place across the country. different statues being torn down, differing on the degree of whether or not it is warranted or not, some being confederate soldiers, some being just us presidents. so when it comes to that issue as well, president trump said that he would consider almost using military force or even the national guard to protect some of these monuments. is that something that is plausible? yes, absolutely. i mean, look, the reality is these are national monuments. these are things which belong to the public and are there to honor our government, our history. you know, erasing history, you know, with regards to statues and vandalizing does not necessarily remove the past. if anything, it prevents people from being able to learn forward. you know, to be honest with you, alex, this really reminds me of a very classic three-phase model that the communists and socialists used to use where in phase one, they would distribute propaganda by attacking key elements that represent that government. so a flag, a statue, etc. the second phase of launching more escalated attacks where they are seizing cities and trying to overthrow government and utilizing both a political and military wing of this. i mean, it is very, very common, you know, communist socialists type of stance that antifa and everyone is trying to utilize. and i think the president needs to stand firm and he is law and order. and that is what we need. we need law and order in this country to prevent the hundreds of murders, the dozens that have just happened in the last week or so in chicago and baltimore and seattle and is not an ironic that every one of those are democrat-led cities. so yes, the president should absolutely do what is necessary to control the lawlessness and to protect our national monuments. and you bring up law and order. and i think that is an interesting point too because that is something that the president has said that he wants to make sure is instilled throughout the country. and as we now have the luxury of hindsight, we look back and we see some of the unrest that did take place in minneapolis, los angeles, new york. it has died down for the most part, although just last night. we saw in washington, d.c., that it is not entirely gone just yet. but with the luxury of hindsight, looking back, do you think the president should have used the national guard or the military to qualms some of those unrest, those more violent riots and looting that were taking place across the country? well, he did in most cases. he actually deployed the national guard and they went in and they actually quelled things very quickly. you know, the reality is always that these cities, you know, law and order is first designated as a state right. so the cities, the counties, the mayors, the government representatives, they have a right to try and go ahead and govern that state and ensure they can take control over it. the only reason that the federal government's even involved is because the failure by people who want to call protests or looting and vandalism a block party and then watching people being raped and murdered in that area. so yeah, absolutely. i think the president should have stepped in. he did step in. he is made the right decisions. he is protecting our monuments and he will restore law and order in this country. and before i let you go to, i want to get your opinion on the whole idea of defunding police. i know it varies depending on what degree you really agree with that notion. it is all the way from abolishment to minor tweaks to the current system as well. but we just talked about the unrest that is taking place not only in regard to statues, not only in regard to the prior rioting and looting. what would it mean to defund the police? look, defunding the police. i wrote an article that was published in fox news recently and that outfit was exactly on this topic. the reality is that whenever you defund the police, this is not going to impact or hurt the affluent neighborhoods will privatize law enforcement and go ahead and utilize their own private security that is there with a g&k license whose armed and ready to protect themselves. the reality is is that they want this to basically impact those lower income areas because the real threat right now is black on black violence. that is what we are seeing in a lot of these suburban cities. and that is really the issue right now. and antifa and others are actually exposing that and trying to get banjo this lawlessness. the idea of defunding police is absolutely idioxy. i do not even see how this could even be a point which is talked about other than the idea of what the democrats have been doing which is pandering to the left and trying to show themselves as they are willing to look out for the black lives move. and the reality is they are not taking a knee in a raise of awareness. they are taking a knee in an order to raise funding. and when we look around the country too, that has been tried to sub-degree in the past, whether it be in new york city, chicago, baltimore, and it has not been successful. we do have case studies to go off of. and when you pull back resources from those communities, it does not help the people in those communities. so i think you are right on to say that. corey mills, i appreciate you coming on tonight.