and ladies and gentlemen, the guy who made this sweet possible, the guy who makes history, the first ever democratic congressman from the fifth congressional district, zincens rebiter bay, the star of the show tonight, congressman oleg john fuff. okay, come on up. this is all. chairman, thank you so much. chairman curry, chairman salato, great congressman from next door, michael fredville pastrel. thank you so much. i could not have done this without team chairman salato bill. it incredibly changed. it led to this sweet tonight, tom, dermain, michael, john and michael, congratulations. it is an honor to have so many of you stay up so late. it was a little bit of a tense night up there. i know you have all great news, but i will tell you this is a shining point of the night. you know, they said this could not happen that our district was just too partisan, too entrenched, that the attitude is too expensive and that the odds just too long. but handshake by handshake, call by call, let me think room by, let me think room, vote by vote, you, all of you prove that law. we stood up for common sense solutions, we stood up for jersey values. and because of you, democrats, republicans and independents, i stand before you tonight, honor to be the next congressman for the vizs of the united states. friends, let me tell you why i am so proud tonight. i am so proud because here in new jersey, from prime as to burdened washington township to ringwood, we showed the country that there is a new kind of politics taking shape. yes, this campaign season from the top down may have been dark and divisive, but in part since your ahead of problems on it. pitting one party against another. but here are the fifth rejected back. did we talk tough? you bet. did we disagree from time to time? hey, it is new jersey. but at the end of the day, we keep together to get things done. it is why i ran and led you, i believe, that most of what we need to do to build a strong future for new jersey has nothing to do with democrat or republican issues. they are fifth district issues, and that is what we are going to get done. lowering taxes to make life more affordable on attract jobs and businesses is not a partisan issue. it is a fifth district issue. facing our roads and bridges and ensuring our kids have good education and clean drinking water is not a partisan issue. it is a fifth district issue, standing by veterans, law enforcement, ems and firefighters, is not a partisan issue. it is a fifth district issue. fighting town abroad and at home is not a partisan issue. it is a fifth district issue. and ensuring that women get people pay for equal work and decide what is best for their health. is it a partisan issue? it is a fifth district issue. treating each other with respect, no matter who you love, where you are from, where you are worship, or what you look like, is an partisan issue. it is a fifth district issue. there is a lot i have read for congress because i believe like you do that here in new jersey, we share common values, jersey values. the values that i learned growing up here. i also learned that getting things done for you is a job of a member of congress. and that is what i will do when i take the oath in january. thank you. thank you. applause. applause. applause. you see we are standing for real practical solutions of people. there is a very big tent. and ideology has no place. that is what i have heard from all of you. i heard it from cgo's like a.d.s. and local republican leaders like councilman alamedra, from north thail, and mary harry shortway from vernon, who put progress ahead of party. because they know the extrusion of my land, it was spot on people's. but ideology has never built a bridge. educated a kid, or in mary shortway's case, secure the money to buy a new fire truck. that is why i remember if congress, i will fight for all of you, all of us, here in the fifth. regardless of you voted for me, because that is the job. and i expect you to hold all of us accountable. now before i go, let me share a few other things really quick that i learned along the way. first, campaigns are a team sport. this was a tough campaign. well, one of us, the victory, was a team of people, a team so smart and dedicated, that it just, no matter what the hour was, they were there. and believe me, i called it all hours. the first among them, and i am just so proud of her, and what she did for us. our fearless leader, my campaign manager, alan's ball. not a small number. and david's 65 years old. have we gone. to alex, our whole campaign team, amanda, and jean, jordan, zach, glendale, and others on the outside to help me stop somewhere in mark pett and to my brilliant strategist, adam silverstein. to sam, we will be here a few years ago to have our first conversation about what it is going to take to get this done. you all did this. this is your night too. thank you and i will never forget it. to my brilliant colleague, by the way, i had to raise a lot of money and the countless donors who helped make this possible, thank you. and special thanks to my campaign treasure, ron combe. the great friend, like chisha droga, who is stunned to die from breathing in the toxins of ground zero, and jamie hayson, who is 12 there too, and the days after 9-11 and then lend their voices to our effort. thank you because they believe like i said now for two years that we always have to stand by those who stand by us. to our brothers and sisters in labor who are there from the beginning, i thank you for the bottom of my heart, for your heart work. the national association of realters, i do not know if you have seen their ads, who represent small businesses across communities in our district, and great new jersey companies like johnson and johnson 18 team verizon among so many other who took a risk on us early on. i am so grateful because creating jobs is an important issue and i will wake up every day working to bring more jobs and businesses here in north jersey because it is all about jobs and business. i am so grateful to my parents and mom who is down here, my dad is on there, and my stepfather, my in-laws came in the name, brad and harper and estella, i love you all. and when it comes to thank yous, i say i am willing to jump, i forgot that. i miss emily and jeff and sorry. if i sister emily and her up in jeff, that would have gone down well, thanksgiving. now when it comes to thank yous, i saved my immediate family, i am most important for last. to run it for office in this day and age, you either have to be crazy like bill or have a really good reason. i will leave it up to decide which one you can decide yourself, but for me, the good reason is right here next to me is better. i am not going to be a problem work. to my beautiful and brilliant wife, marlon. the fact that that is still talking to me proves that i have married up way up. to ben and ellie or everything to me guys, i want you to know that. the worst part about this campaign has been the time i had to spend away from you. but the reason i ran was because of you. i want to say, i am just really privileged to live with two women who i love dearly, and one young man who i want to grow up respecting women. so keep it up there, and i am sure you do that. we have a couple of other questions. one last story. about three weeks ago, i think it was a saturday. i was sitting at the kitchen table, stack of papers, working on the campaign, busy head down. i was going to sit down with you. all of a sudden, i thought it was dropped on my lap. it was from ellie. i wanted to read you a little part of that. you said, dear daddy, thank you for working hard and still spending time with me. i am very proud of you. you are doing a really great job. i will love you if you lose, but if you win, i will be the same amount as happy. i love you so much ellie. i love you so much too, ellie and ben and marla. i am the same amount as happy. and i always work to make you proud. and to all of you, finally, i am going to say thank you. you have all worked so hard to make this happen. these are team sports for all of us. and i just go from the bottom of my heart, i will never ever forget what you did for me. knock it on doors, talking to people, and always getting my back. and remember, we live in the greatest country in the world. and our best day is the amount of what we face are always ahead of us. thank you, god bless you, god bless you.