and thank you all for being here. we are literally on the cusp of one of the busiest travel seasons of the whole year when countless flyers are going to be streaming through these hallways and boarding planes. and i am here to let them know their rights. they do have rights. it is a chaotic, crazy, sometimes catastrophic time of year to travel, but flyers do have rights. if you are bumped from a flight, the airline must pay you up to $1,350. if your bags are damaged or delayed, you are owed money by the airlines up to $3,500. but those rights are still inadequate. and we are working to increase and expand a passenger bill of rights. most recently, passengers received the right not to be taken off a plane once they are on it. and also rules are in process for the size of seats. but most seats are still shrinking. most passengers are still charged for basic services and necessities like water and beverages or even peanuts and pretzels on many flights. and bags on planes or checking bags. these charges should be eliminated. maybe most immediate for a lot of passengers would be the right to travel with their children, wherever they would like. seat selection for people traveling with young children. anybody under 13 should be guaranteed without charge. in other words, no seat selection charge if a person wants to travel with children and sit with them. and we are working to assure that kind of fair family seating right. we are also working to reduce the kinds of charges that passengers may be charged. and we are working to increase the seat size. there is incredibly no minimum size for seats under current rules. and the department of transportation has an obligation to provide those kinds of standards. now, the rights that flyers have now have been expanded under the faa reauthorization bill back in 2016. but many flyers are unaware of them because they are buried in the dense small print of the department of transportation website. in essence, the department of transportation has been far from a friend of the average flyer. and that is why i am demanding answers from the dot department of transportation because they need to do better for people who are flying these days. and many will be right here at bradley and at airports around the country. the kinds of delays, bumped flights, charges and fees over booking and general hassles certainly need to end. so, i have some questions. so, you are referring to the current rules right now date back to 2016. but people do not seem to be aware of it. we want to make additional changes with regard to things like the cigarettes and the size of the seats. but for the person who is traveling this week or over the next several weeks, the things that they need to understand if they do not, you were talking about these fees if you are delayed more than two hours domestically or i think you said three or four internationally. is this for things that are not related to weather? is this due to over booking or does weather factor end because i think people are confused about the act of nature, act of god distinction? if flights are delayed because of weather, there is no obligation for payment. but if there is over booking and people are bumped and they are delayed, then they are owed money up to $1,350. now that amount really should be increased. so it is a real disincentive for the airlines to bump people and over book. and if their baggage is damaged, lost or delayed, they are owed money regardless of the cause. and that is up to $3,500. but again, the amount should be increased to put teeth into these rules. and under the current rules as of 2016, the more recent ones are also very important, like no e-cigarettes and no removal once people are on the plane. one thing, if they are bumped before they board the plane, they should not be removed once they are on the plane. and also the number of hours you can remain on the tarmac, right? there are rules with respect to that as well. no longer than three hours on the tarmac for its evaluation of the rules. if the plane is on the tarmac for two hours, people are entitled to food or beverages. the restrooms must work. there are some basic rules if flights are delayed on the tarmac, especially the three-hour limit for how long the plane can be delayed on the tarmac. now, what about an airport's culpability? we have had a situation very recently where the airport lost power and it was not through the fault of the airline per se, but people were very doling even and so forth. what about those sorts of situations? airports should be held to a higher standard. but the airlines are the ones who should be on the hook in the first instance. they are the ones who guarantee that the airport is going to be working, that all the equipment is viable and safe and the airlines ought to be on the hook held responsible and accountable for safe, convenient and reliable flying. that is a basic obligation. and the airlines are making plenty of money. they have consolidated recently. that is one reason why service has declined because there is less competition. if airlines feel there is no competition, the standards of performance are going to go down and rates, charges, fees are going to go up and passengers will be niggled and done. so passengers need to know what their rights are, but these basic rights are nowhere near enough, which is why i am looking to expand a passenger bill of rights. since the changes were made in 2016, is there any information that they have overbooked less or they have looked at the quality of maintenance more to avoid delays? has there been a correlation? we are trying to get information from the airline. so far they have not been as forthcoming as we hope. obviously our expectation or prediction would be that these kinds of charges would serve as a disincentive for a reason for their lines to do better, but we have no reliable information. and the main point here is that a lot of passengers and flyers simply do not know their rights. so these laws can be on the books, but if they are unenforced, if flyers fail to take advantage of them, because they are in effect disguised in the fine-dense print of the department of transportation, then it is a really meaningless kind of right. would you suggest that maybe this information should be printed on their ticket or somewhere unless you go on the department of transportation website and forth through all this, should it be something, you know, the way cigarettes have cigarette warnings and it should be something that is right in their face? whether it is warning or guidance or notice, certainly passengers need to be better informed. and maybe at the time that they book their tickets, they should be told about the rights they have so that if they are bump or delayed or their baggage is lost, they will know their entitlement to the money, real money, payments of $1,350 in cases of bumping and $3,500 in case of lost damage or delayed baggage. is that based on the price of the ticket, is how they arrive at those numbers when it is up to $13.50 or? it is based on the price of the ticket and the amount of delay and the loss if there is a bag. other questions? do you have some questions off topic? sure. can you talk about the- do we can get you afterward? okay. can you talk about the senate democrats, certainly, to block matt whitaker from serving heads? yeah. um, installing matt whitaker as acting attorney general defies constitutional law, the senate is entitled. in fact, we have an obligation to advise and consent under the constitution. this dictatorial and autocratic action to appoint, in effect, a constitutional nobody, a lackey and sick of that, it is not only bad policy, it is unacceptable as a violation of the constitution. u.s. senators have a right and a responsibility to scrutinize the top law enforcement official of the united states when he or she is installed and the president's action here deprives u.s. senators of that right. and that is why we have no recourse but to seek redress from the courts. three of my- two of my colleagues and i, three of us are going to court today asking that the president be stopped from this dictatorial violation of the united states constitution in failing to seek advice and consent, scrutiny and approval from the united states senate as is obligated under the constitution. if president trump is subpoenaed by robert mueller, do you feel that whitaker can stop that? whitaker may claim the power to block a subpoena for president trump. he is in no way a legitimate acting attorney general with the rightful power to stop a subpoena. that is one of the reasons that we are going to court so that someone in that position be rightfully confirmed by the senate with the authority and we believe that whatever the individual or the action taken on the special counsel or any other sphere, there is a constitutional obligation for the united states senate to advise and consent.