mr. president, senator from connecticut, i am proud to join my colleague from washington state, my very distinguished and dedicated colleague and others like her who are championing this cause of defending planned parenthood, i am proud to stand with planned parenthood in advocating and championing the cause of women's health care in this country. planned parenthood should really need no defense and indeed this body should not be spending valuable time and energy in this attack on women's health care that really is epitomized by an effort to defund planned parenthood. let us be very clear. planned parenthood provides countless women across this country with scd testing, breast cancer screening, funding for research into strengthening women's health care and contraception. none of these activities are involved in abortion. they are entirely unrelated to abortion. they are about women's health care and the effort to defund planned parenthood is in fact an attack on women's health care. planned parenthood should need no defense from any of us because its activities immensely benefit women who depend on it and rely on its professionals for basic screening and testing and other activities that protect them from the ravages of cancer and other kinds of diseases that cost more to this nation. if we deny planned parenthood that funding. now planned parenthood is under attack. it is under siege from a sensationalistic and disingenuous kind of publicity that are based on undercover videos. people are offended by them and planned parenthood has in fact spoken to the merits of them. and i encourage planned parenthood to continue speaking to those videos and other was released just yesterday. planned parenthood should need no defense from us because the american people supported american women do because they know the reality which is different from what is depicted in those videos. and the reality is that planned parenthood provides funding for women's health care. and so the funding women's health care by defunding planned parenthood should not be the goal or the effect of anything we do in this body. i am proud to stand and urge my colleagues to reject this attack from the most extreme members of the anti-choice movement which seeks to undermine critical access to health care through planned parenthood. and my hope is that congressional opinion like american public opinion will continue to be as we are on the side of planned parenthood. thank you mr. president. i yield the floor.