like many of my colleagues, i am very proud to support the veterans job coract of 2012. very simply, this measure keeps faith with our veterans, offers them employment opportunities, commensurate, not only with what they have given to the country, what they have served and sacrificed to accomplish and give back, but also with their skills and talents and gifts that have been enhanced and enlarged by their military service. this measure addresses the chronic and persistent problem of unemployment among our young veterans. it is a searing indictment of our nation that unemployment among these young veterans is many percentage points higher than the average population. what is happening in this country is that a new generation is returning home, a new generation of veterans ready to work, wanting to serve in civilian life just as they have in the military. and with the ending of the war in iraq and the winding down of our presence in afghanistan, 200,000 service members are transitioning to civilian workforce every year. in july of 2011, there were 232,000 post-911-era veterans unemployed. that is 12.4% as an unemployment rate. the august jobs report of this year showed that the most recent unemployment rate for post-911 veterans is 10.9% and for connecticut, that is just under 10%. there are many more statistics that show that unemployment rates for these young veterans, particularly for our enlisted men and women coming back from iraq and afghanistan are higher, some would estimate double the average rate across the population. and they are an indictment of our commitment and our obligation, unfulfilled so far by the greatest nation in the history of the world. and too often, in our history, we have failed to keep faith and we have left veterans behind. i have advocated measures in healthcare and counseling, training, employment opportunities, but i want to focus on one measure in particular where all of us join forces and reach to consensus. as recently as last november, the veterans job coract of 2012 is a new measure that would provide opportunities in conservation and in other kinds of public service, firefighting and police. but there is an existing measure whose very life is threatened because it will expire in 2012. this measure is the vow to hire heroes at, specifically the tax credits under those measures for hiring unemployed or disabled veterans. and those tax credits will expire at the end of this year unless they are renewed. and that is the reason that i am introducing legislation, along with co-sponsors, senators webb, cantwell, tom udall, heller and mcculleski, that extends the vow to hire heroes tax credit through the end of 2016. this measure is important to be extended because it offers these veterans new opportunities, promotes and incentivizes employers to put our veterans to work. hiring a veteran is not only the right thing to do to honor the men and women who have sacrificed so much for our country, it also makes good business sense. veterans are among our most highly skilled, capable, disciplined, reliable, and dedicated workers. and businesses ought to relish their services. countless businesses, big and small, have already found that veterans are a tremendous asset to their workforce. and this bill is really important to build on the measures that we have in place. very simply, it makes these veterans even more attractive. last month, i visited the arna machine company in bristol, connecticut. and i talked with a young veteran whose name is nick soss here, a former army sniper who served in afghanistan and now works there as a machinist. being a former army sniper, nick knows about precision and care, taking your time to be on target. he is now training to use computer-assisted manufacturing software with the same care and precision and discipline that he developed in his army training as a sniper. while i was at arna, i talked to stephen shanahan, the president of the company, who is very proud and rightly proud of having 42 employers and growing in this tough economy. he is hiring. and he said to me that these tax credits have helped him fill positions with young, qualified personnel who are veterans. i have also worked with congressman chris murphy to survey manufacturers about veteran hiring. and this legislation is the result of those conversations and discussions, the data and the feedback that we have received as well as consultation with my friend, bud buca, who has helped me time and again to address the challenges facing veterans. these tax credits will expire. they will end unless we were new them. and we owe it to our veterans, to our business community, to manufacturers and small businesses that want to do the right thing, to make sure that they have this incentive. i have heard from employers and veterans firsthand that they, many of them, were not aware of this tax credit. and so, i have proposed as part of this legislation, increase measures to create awareness and spread the word about these tax incentives so that big companies with their tax attorneys, but also smaller companies that may not have the consultants and the accountants to do this kind of work, know of it and take advantage of it. this measure also simplifies the process for veterans and small businesses to take advantage of the tax incentives currently to be a qualified veteran. in quotes, qualified veteran, individuals must gain approval through a local employment agency, which can be really unnecessarily time consuming and burdensome to them and to the potential employer. it would allow employers to take advantage of these tax credits for an additional four years, providing returning servicemen and women with a clear pathway when they need it and they will need it over these four years. i am very, very honored. this bill has been endorsed by the veterans of foreign wars and the american legion who have been championed of employment opportunities for veterans. and i urge my colleagues to continue their support for our veterans by supporting this legislation, which will create more good jobs. we owe our veterans more good jobs and it will grow our economy. let me just say finally, nearly three quarters of a million veterans could be more precise. 742,000 men and women are eligible for these employer hiring tax credits. so let us do the right thing. let us extend these tax credits. we adopted them overwhelmingly last november in the vow to hire heroes. we have it within our power and it is our obligation to meet this challenge and for our veterans, we should do no less.