hi, i am richard gumenthal, your united states senator, proud and excited to celebrate the classes of 2022. and sorry, i cannot be with you in person because i am here working for you. congratulations on reaching this memorable milestone. i want to express my gratitude to president elsa nunez and the entire eastern staff for your professional skill and dedication. and to all of your wonderful teachers, the accomplished faculty, who have been on the front lines. and of course your parents and loved ones who have been by your side. i want to give special thanks to all of the veterans here today. you are among connecticut's heroes. i have been honored to speak at eastern's recent commencements during this time of hardship and heartbreak. but this moment is one of renewed hope and resolve as we emerge from the pandemic. i deeply admired your courage and perseverance during these challenging times. and you now have a diploma and a labor market that offers a lot of opportunities. americans have confronted huge challenges in recent years. a continuing pandemic and economic downturn, the opioid crisis, mental health struggles, especially for young people, the russian invasion of ukraine. also, personal or individual challenges and tragedies, job loss, family members, sickness or passing. americans have always faced down these challenges. but never alone, there are always helping hands. as i travel around connecticut, which i do every week when i come home, i am impressed by the resilience and resolve of our people and their generous spirit. in fact, the best part of my job is to provide a helping hand to individual people, a worker who needs job training, a veteran who deserves health services. or benefits, a family facing eviction. they knew to ask for a helping hand. and so should you. i never back down from a fight, nor should you. i recently was honored to help lead the fight to confirm the first black woman, katangi brown jackson, to be a justice on the united states supreme court. she is superbly qualified with superlative intellect and character. but she emphasized to me when i met her how she overcame obstacles and stood on the shoulders of others, role models, and mentors who blazed trails for her, even as now she is a trailblazer for others. each of you has the same opportunity to lead by example and become a role model and mentor for new leaders. and to be a helping hand, we need you. every american generation makes a compact with the next one. to lead the country better for americans to come. you are part of that compact. so i hope you will deserveily celebrate today and work hard to make tomorrow better, not just for yourselves, but for everyone. thank you and congratulations.