please welcome to the stage, connecticut senator richard blumenthal. thank you all. i am so proud and excited to be part of this amazing event. i am so excited to be part of this amazing event. i am so excited to be part of this amazing event. i am so excited to be part of this amazing event. i am so grateful and proud to be chris murphy's wingman on the safeer community. i just want to take a point of his personal privilege and point out that his mom and dad and his great white kathy are here today in the audience. i just want to thank you all for your support and support. you know, in this fight against gun violence, there are heroes all around us. the teachers that miguel cardona just mentioned are heroes. they are the ones who go into the classroom. literally right now they are there in those classrooms, probably many of them. doing the drills that are so horrendously now a part of our lives, everyday lives. the emergency responders, you know, i was at sandy hook the afternoon that that shooting occurred. the first responders went into the elementary school and when they came out, they were in tears. because when emergency responders are police, are fire, are medics, go to these scenes, they go through it. that violence as well, they see the results first hand. 20 children mangled as a result of that assault weapon. and there are heroes in our veterans. veterans are often victims of gun violence, often victims of ptsd that cause them to take their own lives. those mental health issues as a result of what they see on the battlefield, the trauma they go through, our veterans are heroes and they are all too often victims and survivors. my fact, all the veterans who are here today, please raise your hand so we can thank you for your service to our country. and i want a single out of group that has not been mentioned. a great big thanks to governor lemont. he is led the way. but the state legislators in connecticut have been so profoundly important. if you are a state legislator, please stand so we can thank you. thank you. we can be so proud in connecticut because we have been at the forefront, we have been at the tip of the spear. our laws are the template for what we did in the safer community act. and we are going to continue to be at the forefront because just this session on open carry, our connecticut state legislature is helping to lead the way. and they are heroes as well. i have the great honor of introducing one of my personal heroes. many of my colleagues in washington knew gabby giffords better than i did. i got to know her as a result of our work together on gun violence. i also got to know her husband, mark kelly, who is now in the united states senate. he is a hero too. and i want to read to you something that mark texted to me. we were texting back and forth. you know, when senators cannot find anything better to do, they text each other. so mark texted me because i asked him maybe to give me some suggestions for how to introduce his wife. he said, i would also like to tell you about what i think was the thing that is most relevant to her connection with the state of connecticut. it is not positive, but it is profound. her life changed dramatically on two days, about two years apart. the day that she was shot in 2011, and the day of the sandy hook school shooting. her work to end this scourge of gun violence is not because of the first day, but because of the second. she did not feel a call to action because of what happened to her personally, her disability, her loss of career, and ability to communicate. that did not compel her to do this. it was 20 kids in a classroom in connecticut, and then meeting the parents in a living room in newtown that set her on this path. she is in connecticut tomorrow because of a journey that started on december 14, 2012. i was in the living room that mark refers to when she visited a number of the families who went through that gun violence and lost children. her connection with them, her compassion, her courage, was magical. it was something almost that could be felt in the air. her strength and tenacity inspired all of us, but most important, her feeling, her empathy for them. the other experience with gabby that i will never forget was walking on the mall through the white flags that a couple of years ago were set there to commemorate by every town, the endgifers, the losses that we have seen to gun violence. as we walk through the rows of white little flag, hand in hand, i felt that same strength in her physically and emotionally. gabby giffords is a hero because of who she is, what she is, what she is done, and what she will continue to inspire us to do. i am so proud and grateful to introduce to you gabby giffords.