this whole business of governing is about partnerships of cooperation and shared visions and i will tell you there is nobody who is better to work with than mayor greg fisher. he is amazing. so you know as unpleasant as politics can be which it turns out is pretty unpleasant. i will tell you what this part never gets old. and i do not mean just me or this race. we have gotten to kick off some really important nights together and some historic nights together. ten years ago we were able to switch control of the house of representatives and thereby elect the first woman speaker of the house in nancy pelosi. so that was ten years ago. eight years ago we did it again and we elected the first african-american president of the united states. and i do not really want to go through the litany of accomplishments of this administration but you know people have short memories but when you think back to where we were in 2008 and the country was on the verge of financial collapse and there were so many things going wrong and barack obama came in and led us and has now orchestrated one of the most incredible recoveries that any nation could have achieved. and now we are on the verge of eight years later, tonight breaking that incredible glass ceiling and electing the first woman president of the united states. pretty amazing, i say it everybody. so i got to serve with the first woman speaker of the house, the first african-american president of the united states and now i am going to get to serve with the first woman president of the united states. and kentucky we all know what that is. that is the triple crowd. but you know i know that i would not be standing here tonight without you. i also know that you really do not do it for us personally and nor should you. like me you are driven by passion for equal opportunity, responsibility, and community. ideals that have made this country great for 240 years and continue today. not because we achieved them but because we will never stop their pursuit. we are not a country that asks are we there yet? we are a country that asks what we need to do to move forward together. you have never lost sight of that. in the midst of the most vile, destructive campaign of my lifetime, which is now pretty long, when it would have been easy to turn away you stage focus. you did the work that needs to be done to keep the wheels of progress in motion and ensure that this nation of immigrants continues to be the land of opportunity to be the land of opportunity. for all americans, no matter what we look like, how we pray or whom we love. you know the thing about glass ceilings, you can see what is waiting on the other side. and it is not the welcoming committee. the vitriol we have seen over the last year, that is not going to go away tomorrow. and it will not be just idling until the next election. we may be sending the most prepared, effective leader in our lifetimes into the oval office. but even in an improved congress, there are going to be a lot of people who so priority is ensuring that she fails. that may sound pessimistic, but believe it or not, i am actually more optimistic about this country's future than i have been in a long time. and it is because of something else we have seen in this election. you have a lot more power than you think. you have seen how politicians are dancing this year. the trump two-step, i support him, but i will not endorse him and i do not know who i am voting for. i endorse him, but i will not defend him and i am voting with a number three pencils, so it might just be erased. and then of course there is mitch mcconnell. they may not be the silent majority, but they have got a silent majority leader. these people have taken almost as many positions on the president's erase as they have to repeal obamacare. why does anybody believe that chains their minds? no, you did. you changed their minds. you made it impossible for partisans to play only to their base. you make it untenable for politicians to maintain abhorrent positions. you shape our leaders, not just by replacing them, but by making them sure we do not forget that you can. politicians are looking forward to this election being over because they think you will stop paying attention. they want you to think congress is so broken that nothing possibly could happen. to give up on them now and look away later, blame a faulty institution instead of the individuals at fault. do not buy it. that first nancy pelosi congress raised the minimum wage, lower the cost of prescription drugs for seniors, and i think the largest veterans healthcare increase ever cut federal student loan interest in half and more. and we did it all working with a republican president. next year, i challenge you to reject the temptation to look away, to continue wielding the power we have seen these last few months. do not let the culprits off the hook by blaming some inevitable congressional dysfunction. call them out by name. make them dance for you again. tell them we expect more and we demand more when they try to stop the president from filling a vacancy on the supreme court. do not let them get away with that. tell them we expect more. we demand more. when they signal that women, the gay community, immigrants, people of color or the disabled are somehow less than, tell them we expect more. we demand more. when the only healthcare solution they can offer is taking coverage away from 20 million americans. tell them we expect more. we demand more. and we demand more of governor bevan when he plans to take healthcare away from 450,000. when they talk about building walls instead of bridges, show more interest in shutting down the government than opening up new opportunities when they prioritize billionaire investors over investments in our nation's future. and gun manufacturers over gun victims, tell them we expect more. we demand more. the work that lies ahead, no one person can do alone, not even hillary clinton. but if we stand together and demand more, there is nothing we cannot achieve. that is why i am optimistic and it is why i want this election is behind us. i can confidently say once again that our best days lie ahead. i have always been a witness. i have always been able to count on this community to stand up for what is right and fight the fights that need fighting. i am honored and grateful that you have asked me to be your representative in washington once again and i am energized to be your ally in those battles. 350 million unique and individual and diverse individuals share this country and nobody's going to take it back or anywhere else. we are going to move it forward together. thank you all very much.