hi, sir. are you able to hear me? okay, sir. i can hear you. can you hear me now? yes, i can, sir. sorry, my computer does not have a webcam, but first and foremost, i will make sure you all are all right and safe. yeah, we are safe. we are in my office. oh, good. okay. good. wow. i do not even know where to start. yeah, i will not take up too much of your time, because i know, you know, everything is going on on your busy. but let us first start with what, what did you witness today? well, we were in the capitol on the house floor. and, you know, let me, let me first say, this is a very sad day. this lawlessness is just an american. congress, we were on the floor. we were following a peaceful and well laid out legal process within federal law and the constitution. and they have now turned it into a national disgrace. and i can only pray that lives and property are protected. the president needs to step up. i understand that he called for peace. he needs to call for people, his supporters to evacuate the capitol. and i hope that he will do that soon. and, but to get back to your question, when we were, we were on the house floor, as i said, going through the constitutional process. and we got information that the capitol had been breached. they recessed. some members left immediately. i left immediately. i was going through the tunnel is capitol hill police were running back to the capitol. i was, you know, one of the first times i am running away and they are running into it. and so we went back to our offices. and really, i was able to get back to my office with really no problem. in all your years in public service, i have heard some of representatives, you know, on various outlets say, this is kind of like a doomsday scenario that was sent out to you. have you ever witnessed or what were you feeling like and have you ever witnessed something like this? you know, i have to tell you, this is, no, i have never witnessed anything like this. our country has never experienced anything like this. and that is why i call on these folks who support our president. i understand that, but there is a legal lawful process that we were following. and it is a peaceful process. and that is what our, you know, our forefathers foresaw that there may be challenges within elections. and that is why this process was set up the way it is for, you know, under us three code section 15, the whole process of today, the fact that we met on the six, the fact that we met at one of the clock, the fact that we met in joint session. all of that is laid out, the fact that we have a process for objecting. all of that is laid out in the law. we were simply following the law. and, you know, and after this lawlessness to take over the day, it is a sad, it is a sad day for america. we had heard that gas masks were, that capitol police told representatives to put their gas masks on if they had them because tear gas is being deployed. did you, you said you got away kind of quickly, but did you encounter any protesters who have to put on your gas mask or any of that? no, i did not. i had left the floor as soon as i recessed. and i did, as we were told, to get back to our offices and hunker there. and that was a text message you guys received or an email alert. how did it kind of come across? they recessed on the floor. did they send out a message, so telling you guys to hunker down as well? no, no, that was the, i do not believe that came through an email. i think they mentioned that on the floor. gotcha, gotcha. where do you see this going now? i mean, you did say you call on the president. he has been tweeting a little bit. the vice president has as well, which more strongly calling on protesters to leave the capitol. what is your message for the president? is he to blame for this happening today? look, i blame the people that are illegally inside the capitol right now. that is lawlessness. and that is who i blame for this. peaceful protest is fine. just like all summer, you know, we are the party of law and order. and i wish they would not respect that. and so, you know, i do not blame the president for this. i blame the people that are committing the lawlessness. and just to ask you questions for you, obviously, there is going to have to be a lot done now. they have said sweeping the floor because there have been a lot of these protesters in there. where do you see this process going now in the next few hours and days? well, i certainly hope that once they evacuate the building, as you mentioned, i am sure they will have to sweep it. and then i would hope that sometimes this evening, we would be able to get back to our constitutional duties. and i know that you had mentioned public on twitter last week and in recent days that you plan to object to electoral college results. obviously, we would seen part of that take place this point or this afternoon, but you still plan on doing that? well, i think we should continue to go through the process. yes. is there anything else that could happen? we are doing the process of protesting arizona at the time. and, you know, there is, look, this process was set up so that state legislatures would be able to maintain their plenary of the process. plenary authority over elections within their various states. and in some states, that was violated. and that is how we, and that is why we were objecting to those states where the state legislatures were not involved in many of the election changes that were made in some cases just days before the election. and just the last question for you. how will you remember this day in personally and for america? as i said earlier, it is a very sad day. it really is, i think, a day of national disgrace. and i hope and pray that, you know, everyone will be okay. we can get through this process. i did hear of a shooting inside the capitol. i have not confirmed that, but it is disgraceful. yeah, we have heard several outlets reporting that some law enforcement did shoot, i believe, a woman inside the capitol. so i mean, i just have no words. i cannot imagine being there. i cannot either. you know, and i know of the thousands of protesters that are out there, you know, i just call on them to peacefully protest, evacuate the capitol. and let us get back to lawfully going through this process that the constitution set out for us. anything else that you would like to add, sir? i think that was it, kayleigh. all right. and i know you have got to add it pretty quickly. so i am not sure if you had any, your staffers, any pictures of anything that is going on there. yeah, i figured it out. yeah, no, i understand. i just had to ask. all right, sir. well, i believe that your staffers on my information, if you guys have any other updates, i will let them know as well. and i hope you guys stay safe and we are thinking of all of you all at the capitol, because this is just crazy. i think very much and pray for america. yes, sir. have a good night. thank you.