mr. chairman. general, let me paint a little picture of the fbi that i knew for many years. and i think most would agree. they are the premier law enforcement agency, not just in the united states, but i think most likely in the world. would you agree with that? i think they are viewed. and i will say one of, because we oversee other law enforcement agencies at the justice department. oh, ok. well, i will let you off the hook on that one. but also that mr. struck, who is risen to a very high level within that organization, has to be a premier agent within the premier agency, the fbi. that is certainly what we were told. i agree with that. and so in fact, i do not know that the fbi, at least in the 40 years that i have been in law enforcement, ever conducted an investigation that brought the integrity of the agency and the investigative process under such scrutiny and questioning of the integrity of the agency. would you agree with that? it certainly has brought incredible scrutiny and undercut the credibility of the organization in a way that has unfair to all these thousands of agents out there. exactly. and i have never seen anything like it. and in fact, even agent struck, i do not know if anything in his past that ever questioned his integrity and his service to the fbi or his country. i am not aware of anything. so when i look at your report, and then you outline several investigative and prosecutorial missteps in this particular case, and i will read just a few of them for you. this is from the roman roman war in the summary. the preference for consent over compulsory process to obtain evidence, decision to obtain, not to obtain, or to seek to review certain evidence such as the personal devices used by secretary clinton's senior age, the use of voluntary witnesses over these interviews, quote, decisions to enter into letter use or queen for a day immunity agreements with three witnesses, some of which i think might have been potential targets as well, had the potential anyway. the use of consent agreements and active production immunity to obtain the laptops used by clinton's attorneys, cheryl mills and heather samuelson, to call her personal and work-related emails, the handling of the clinton interview on july 2, the tarmac meeting, the mid-year exam delay and looking into the anthony wiener laptop situation, director comey's draft date of exoneration letter in may. so my question is, when you look at these things in the totality, you look at them individually, you may not see much. but you know in a civil rights prosecution, you look at patterns or practices that will overcome any written policy that they may be presenting. and all i am plain to fast to do is show a pattern or practice. to overcome a defense by an organization that, you know, we have this policy against, you know. so when you say that you found political bias, but it had no effect on the investigation, it seems in a gate this pattern or practice that clearly existed in this investigation. i just want to say we did not find that it did not have any impact on the investigation. we could not possibly have looked at all these decisions, as you said, that covered all this period of time. what we found was focused on the individual investigations. and i think what is important for people to understand is, our responsibility as an inspector general is an inspector general and looking at these issues is not to say this was thorough or not thorough or the best choice or not the best choice or could have been done more aggressively or not, but we are looking at was there misconduct? let me ask one more question very quickly. have you ever seen a public relations campaign mounted surrounding an investigation like we saw here, where there is a sat conference so that the agency can pass down information on this case so that they can squat down, quote, squat down stories about it and they even briefed retirees. have you ever seen that before? it is a great question, congressman. actually, the first in yesterday's hearing in today who is asked about that portion of the report and it does not directly affect this investigation, but for the reasons you indicated, i think we were concerned in particularly in the context of when it was occurring, which was in october during the campaign. and in our view, you look at that and you say, you know what, when there is a campaign going on and either side commenting on this, the best place for the just department b is on the sidelines. the political debate will be the political debate it might be fair, it might be unfair, but when you start doing that and sending out talking points across the country, you might actually be encouraging people, maybe unintentionally, we did not make an intent find here, but maybe unintentionally encouraging people to, as you suggest, to get the word out. well, it may cause other people to want to speak who maybe do not agree with the talking points. and so that was one of the areas that we had concern about and i appreciate you raising that congressman because i do. i just cannot figure out how peter struck is still at the fbi. chairman eils back to,