florida's elected leadership leaving the state and even the country. local senator travis hudson offers his reaction to the controversial cabinet meeting held in israel. we will also discuss the recently completed legislative session. first, the mueller report back in the news because of mueller himself. if we had had confidence that the president clearly did not commit a crime, we would have said so. the constitution points to congress to take action to hold the president accountable for his misconduct. jacksonville's john rutherford is a member of that congress and he joins us to discuss the issue. plus efforts underway to ease the red tape on legal immigrants and workers, one of the river city connections to capitol hill on this week in jacksonville. and thanks so much for joining us today. the man who served a dozen years as your sheriff in duval county now in his second term as a u.s. representative from northeast florida. congressman john rutherford is with us and we are going to talk about robert mueller and his statements this week and just a few moments. so i would like to start with something that i know you are passionate about and that is our veterans. the veterans are in for success act, hr 2326. i understand it. kind of modeled that after operation the uniform here in jacksonville. tell me about that, bill. listen, kim, that was such a great program that we have operated right here in jacksonville that i thought we needed to replicate that around the country and actually put dollars into the budget to help o&u actually be able to serve more people within northeast florida. because the problem was they have like a 96% success rate in transitioning our veterans from service into the private industry and getting them jobs in a future. and so i wanted to replicate that because the challenge that they had was they were turning away literally hundreds a year that they simply did not have the dollars to serve. yeah, they just did not have the dollars to serve. so veterans are for success act puts $10 million in a pot for matching grants that organizations like o&u or organizations and communities that want to start up in o&u can get those matching grants to help our service members transition from their military service in a private life. just like they do here at o&u and they do such a great job. michelle mcmahon is just an amazing leader over there and i just wanted to replicate around the country what they are doing here. i know what when i have spoken to her, she is mentioned that you are a champion for our veterans. we have certainly seen that in legislation they have been introduced. no, you are champion. i should mention also that bill was just rolled up into the mission act and so it passed the house and hopefully we will get signed in the law. and so past the house it is got to have a senate component as well. right. so the other thing i know you are passionate about, we hear you talk about transportation and what is been happening there. vice president mike pence was just in jacksonville not too long ago. where do you stand when it comes to the administration and trade practices there that is certainly been a controversial thing during these last couple of years but vice president here in town talking about that. well the vice president was in town talking about usmca which is the us-mexican-canadian agreement which is the new nafta if you will. and look there is some really great things in the usmca and i support the concept of the usmca. however, what they left out of the usmca is important to florida. they are not addressing the needs of our seasonal produce growers and that is huge for the state of florida. everybody knows tourism is our number one economy. our number two economy is our agriculture and i think the entire florida delegation has made it pretty clear that if they want to get usmca passed they are going to have to address this issue. got to make some adjustments there yourself. exactly. we cannot continue to allow mexico to dump this seasonal produce that is driving our tomato farmers, cucumber farmers and others out of business. yeah. i appreciate that. one of the things we wanted to talk about as well is what is going on with border security. your law enforcement background, i know that is something that we have talked about in the past. we saw that the first new miles of a border wall under the trump administration they are slated to be in construction in august. we just reported about that this week. what are your efforts right now? is it complete support of whatever the administration says? you have some different ideas. how do we secure that border and make it safe? yeah, let me tell you. i am working with a group of bipartisan members who want to get things done. it is called a bipartisan working group. and we are working on immigration and infrastructure right now. these are our two main focuses. but we have to have more bipartisanship in washington. look, we have too many members on the right and the left who are so concerned about these crazy scorecards that these different conservative or liberal organizations put out that they will vote for a bad bill and really vote to do nothing over fixing a problem. now i give you a perfect example. last session, we had bob gidlatt's bill out of judiciary. goodlatt too, they call it the final. that would have given us 25 billion to secure this other border. now that involved building a wall, all the technology, all of the roads for infrastructure, additional boots on the ground because i do not care how good your surveillance is. you got to have men to put, men and women to put handcuffs on. all of it, 25 billion. we would have done away with chain migration. we would have brought in e-verified for the workers. all of that. in return, the democrats wanted to have one point to actually the president kicked it up to 1.8 million, daca dreamers who would as soon as that 25 billion was put in the lockbox, they would get legal permanent residency. then once the border was secure, that way nobody could take the money away, once the border was secure, those 1.8 million daca and dreamer kids would get green cards. and then they would go to the end of the line and work their way towards citizenship. now in the meantime, if they joined the gang, if they committed crimes, there were a whole lot of reasons they could be thrown out of the country and have that green card taken away. it was probably a 10 or 15 year process for them to get citizenship. people in our own party, because they are worried about these score cards where somebody's going to say whether you are a conservative or not. because of these score cards, our own people voted that thing down. we could have secured this border two years ago. but because of those ideologues, we did not. and i had somebody ask me in part of idra, and they said, sheriff, what can we do to help you in dc? i said, never send another id log to washington. send pragmatists. we got to get something done. and it always uses football analogy, where the ideologues want to throw a hilmery pass on every play. if they do not get 100% of what they want, if they are not going to get a touchdown, they would rather have nothing. well, i am not like that. and i told them. the pragmatist is running the ball. yeah, get three yards, four yards. get what you can. move the ball down the field, but you have to get something done. yeah. i used to tell them, look, when i was sheriff, you think it was enough for me to stand in front of my community and say, i do not like crime? no, i had to do something about it. and so these ideologues are willing to just sit back and talk about it and worry more about their scorecard than really getting things done for the american public. congressman, i want to keep talking with this and i want to invite you to stay with us as well as we ask congressman rutherford to weigh in on the latest mueller report headlines. that is all coming up next after short break on this reef in jacksonville. click off this summer at bell during our summer stock up sale through june 5th. shop door busters like t's and tanks for the family 999 and up. and shorts for the family 999 and up. plus, redeem your bulk bucks. stock up before these deals are gone at bellcambell.com. come explore the new sesame streetland only at seaworld. find surprises around every corner with more sesame street friends than ever. plus, dance in the award-winning parade. the real sesame street neighborhood. exactly as you imagined, more fun than you ever dreamed. now open at seaworld orlando. right now, say $45 on tickets. why do not you call the it? because i could not get nobody else come look at it. you have a problem. i recommend you call the it to their own it. that is what you guys are here for. you make a deal. if you want to put them in, i do not think i would never got any of these guys. thank you it. thank you so much. so glad you guys are out here. they are for the citizens of jacksonville. my father just few weeks ago passed away from one cancer. those definitely wake up cold. i do not want to end up passing early as my father did. i would still like to be living comfortable and healthy. i want to have a chance to spend a good life. i want to be there for my boys. visit tobaccofreeflorda.com to find free resources to help you quit your way. kick off this summer at belt during our summer stock-up sale through june 5th. shop door busters like beach towels, $7.99 an hour. sandals for the family, $14.99 an hour. plus redeem your bulk bucks. stock up before these deals are gone at falconvefeff.com. once again, you made news for jacks your number one choice for local news. important die team stories that get results. what we found is captured the attention of a state attorney. warning parents about explicit images making their way into your kids online games. we have uncovered a shocking element to one of the most popular video game platforms for kids and revealing the local schools with the most unvaccinated students. thank you for starting and ending your day with news for jacks. you are watching this week in jacks and ville with kent justice. one of the biggest political stories of the week erupted when special counsel robert mueller took the podium at the justice department. he laid out details into his investigation into russian election meddling. these were mueller's first public comments on his works since his investigation began in 2017. after nearly two year investigation, special counsel robert mueller spoke out about his report, both on the probe into russian election meddling. russian intelligence officers who were part of the russian military launched a conservative attack on our political system. and on the issue of obstruction of justice, mueller signing department of justice policy into the decision to not pursue charges against president donald trump. under long standing department policy, a president president cannot be charged with a federal crime while he is in office. that is unconstitutional. but mueller added this, if we had had confidence that the president clearly did not commit a crime, we would have said so. we did not, however, make a determination as to whether the president did commit a crime. mueller submitted his report to attorney general william barr, march 22nd, barr released a letter summarizing his principal conclusions two days later, saying there was not sufficient evidence to establish that president trump's campaign engaged in a criminal conspiracy with the russian government. april 18th, a redacted version of mueller's report was released. mueller closed his statement this week with this warning to lawmakers. they ended the public. there were multiple systematic efforts to interfere in our election. and that allegation deserves the attention of every american. congressman john rutherford remains with us. so congressman, what will congress do based on what robert mueller is saying here about his investigation? well, clearly, this is a challenge to our elections that congress takes very seriously. we have already begun working with different departments responsible for protecting that. as you know, though, that is at the state and local level. and we are working with state and local elections officials on ways to harden their targets so that that type of tampering cannot occur. we are also not that it did occur. i do not think they ever show that tampering with the actual vote occurred, although we do believe that there was efforts. but the other issues of trying to influence the american electorate, there is work going on there as well, looking for these ip addresses and things that may be run by russians opposing as americans and trying to influence our elections. and so there is a full-scale effort underway to block those kinds of individuals from being up in the influence american voters. well, congressman, the president says the mueller report exonerates him even this last week. mr. mueller is saying that is not the case. democrats are in the house and democrats lead the house are saying, hey, it may be time for impeachment. there is certainly a push there where do you fall in terms of wanting to investigate that at that level to an impeachment of the president? well, look, the mueller investigation, what he said yesterday has absolutely is absolutely different than what he said in the report. and the fact that he came out, he said there was no collusion, there was no russian conspiracy with americans. now, he did indict, as you know, russians. right, sir. but there was no evidence found that showed that the trump campaign or anyone associated with the trump campaign assisted in that effort to sway the american voter. now, what he also said was that the office of legal counsel did not, that that ruling that they have that a sitting president cannot be charged with a crime, indicted with a crime. he also went on to say with a.g. bill barr, that look, there may be a special counsel in the future that will indict or charge a president, a sitting president, but this is not the case. it is clearly not happening right now. but this is not the case to do that. so i think it clearly shows that bob mueller, a special counsel, did not feel that he was in a position to charge or even intimate that the president committed a crime. the crime of obstruction, which, by the way, obstruction has to do with trying to influence the outcome of a court decision dealing with a crime. there was no crime. there was no underlying crime. so i do not see how you can have obstruction when there is no crime. and even if, i think what you had was you had a president who was willing to protect his presidency. he knew he had not done anything criminally wrong. and that is part of what we have heard from him. i think his president. yeah, it is part of what we have heard from him say i defend myself because. and i think what we are going to find out as attorney general barr continues to investigate the investigators, we are going to find out that i believe there was a coup attempt by those at the highest levels of the fbi and the ag, a bloodless coup attempt. i mean, i do not know what else can you call it when peter strux says we are going to make sure he does not become president. so we are definitely going to come back and talk about that at the right time. i appreciate the time very much. glad to have you back in district for a little while. thank you. good to see you again. all right. so shifting our focus to state politics when we come back, senator travis hudson next on this week in jacksonville. what we achieve for patients is life changing. you get your smile back. your confidence back in just one day. a new smile at a price you can afford. with the dignity and respect you deserve. do not wait another day. nothing is more life changing than a healthy confidence smile. now get 10% off all dentures and $100 off each implant. this offer ends soon. call 1-800-denture today. accidents do not just happen from 9-5. they can happen anytime. and usually at the worst time. today's weekends and even in the middle of the night. hero and harold will always be there for you. 24 hours a day. we will be there to help make it better. call us anytime, day or night. and we will answer the phone. call 251-1111. hero and harold, do not settle for less than you deserve. this summer catch the sounds, the sights, and the nights. bush gardens, tampa bay. summer nights returns. and this year the park is open late every night. try your favorite thrills in the dark, like the new tigris. florida's tallest launch coaster. and catch the fireworks finale every weekend. the thrills go late and the fun last longer at bush gardens summer nights. right now, eat free all day with a purchase of a single day ticket. for over 50 years, cracker barrel has been cooking home-style favorites to perfection. we thought we would celebrate that tradition with new, krispy juicy southern fried chicken. bring it on home in our 12 piece picnic box with all the fixums. new southern fried chicken, now at cracker barrel. summer time is grilling time. and loes does summer right with deals on everything you need. so long summer days lead to great summer nights. now get charred royal thrills, starting at $109. do it right for less. start with loes. i am a busy clay county mom. every morning i pack lunches. i feed the dog and cat, big tear. all the kids then become the ultimate taxi mom. too much to do in the morning. the morning show will help get your day started right. time saver traffic gets busy moms around tie ups. richard nunn tracks and alerts when there is dangerous weather in her neighborhood. all from the news team, it is like family. i am a busy clay county mom. and the morning show on channel four makes mornings happen. the baxter's clock party is bringing town the house. there are a few rules suit looks like the one you got married in. part of me died that day. so be there or be square. i do not like the idea of you guys posting stuff on the internet. it is many spreading something viral. you better pray some the internet. oh, you go on. you get to live here rent free with your husband. mom gets to live here rent free with her husband. he is got you there, honey. believe me, i pay. look, it is been standing weeknight at 8 and 8 30 on channel four. thanks for saying with us. florida's legislative session wrapped up four weeks ago. this our first chance though to debrief with senator travis hudson. so welcome back. appreciate your time. senate district 7 includes st. john's, flagler, volusia counties. and senator florida's lawmaking statute is you have to have a budget when you get through the session. and clearly that is something that you participated on. so tell me about that because i know there are always tough decisions. and specifically when it comes to education, some of the components there. yeah, i cannot say we passed our constitutional duty, the $91 billion budget, 91.1, about 35 billion in education. and when you look at the k-312, which is where my district really focuses on, you have got about 21, a little over 21 billion into the k-312 education system. the big thing we did this year is we increased that bsa, which is the base student allocation, which is what the districts get to spin in their classroom for their teachers and some of their stuff that is non-discretionary. so that salaries that you see the increase typically has been about 20 to $30 a year increasing. last year we only get about 47 cents. that was the big knock we got done. this year, $75, so about 2 1,5 times more than we have ever done since i have been elected in terms of an increase, which is a big deal for our district to help retain those teachers that they have been so desperately. is that the kind of thing that teachers and districts have been asking for when they say we do not have enough for education funding? they want to be able to see that money that base student allocation. yeah, typically we go, there is two forms of that. there is the fefp, which is every student, and that has categoricals on it. so that means we tell them you have to spin it on transportation or upgrading equipment or classroom materials. that bsa, that base student allocation that i talked about the $75, that is non-discretionary. they can just spin it however they want to. a lot of that goes into those teacher salaries or being able to recruit and retain teachers. so most of the districts and most of the teachers back home say bring that money in, because that is one important to us. do not restrict this one the dollars, and we heard them loud and clear. the governor was very big on getting more dollars to the district so they could spin it out they want to. he is very big on local control, and we were able to do that this year. it is a testament to his work. two things before we run out of time. i want to talk about successes in career and technical education. first though, weigh in for me on, you mentioned the governor. the whole cabinet had a cabinet meeting, how do the country, they went to israel. what do you see in terms of the benefits there and do you agree with that? that trip that some hundred florida floridians took to go over there. right. it was a very ceremonial trip. the cabinet outside of the governor, other cabinet members learned a lot about financial regulations, about desalination, agriculture, school hardening. the governor signed a bill on anti-semitism while it was there. i think it was great. the entire cabinet got to go and it was very inclusive in terms of that. some select legislators went, some select media went. when it was all broadcast, i was watching the whole thing on the florida channel. there were other sites that were streaming to different reporters tweeting and putting on facebook. i thought it was a historic moment. it shows that the governor cares about our allies, cares about many things that is important to florida based on our economy and tourism. i think some of the bigger things he did, remember before he got in, he was against airbnb and some of the practices they were using. when he went over there, they rescinded some of their policies. we have now lifted the ban. that is a huge deal for our economy and tourism and that is something he was able to accomplish on that trip. let us go back there to the successes that you feel in the budget about career and technical education. you said you could fill my entire show. i could. it goes into policy and budget but we passed a bill. it was one of the big things that the governor wanted, skilled workforce, skilled labor, career and technical education. we did something that hardly any other state is doing. we passed a new way to graduate in the state of florida, a new track of graduation and it is vocational in nature and that is what we call the cte, the career and technical education. you still take your basic math science, english and history instead of taking your pe credits or your electives or those language arts or foreign languages that you would have to take to go to college. we identify that you are not going that route and we get you into this program if that is where you want to go and you can go right into the career workforce by taking some of those career ready things that we already have in place. this kind of blends the idea of trade school. it does. it blends it. it still gives you the way we did it actually. it is amazing. we did it in an 18 credit track. so 24 is your typical to get a graduation. if you fall behind in some of these classes, you can get caught back up, forego your electives and go right into those trade schools. at the end, we tied the pre-predeorship and pre-predeorship programs into it. so if you do want to go to a state college that is already tied into those vocational tracks, you absolutely can. so it gives a lot of flexibility to the students and it is something that we have looked at, the governor and the senate and the house, as i said, every child is different, not every child is meant for college. and what we are doing is we are shoving them down a track and they are losing their way. they feel left out and we are trying to show them there is plenty opportunities. make it feel special about, we added into that bill a career signing day. so you know the football and baseball players always get their signing day. if you are going right into the workforce, you have a signing day now too and their school districts are going to establish that. more importantly, we bring back the academic advisor role. if you fall below a 2.0 and academic advisor will sit down with you, show you the different ways you can graduate, the different career paths you can go and get you back on track. so there is a lot of stuff in there. the governor at the end asked for the computer science programs, computer science programs to be funded for some of our teachers that want to do that. that was put in at day 58 and the best thing we got i think is financial literacy. we took it out of that three week program in economics. it is now its own elective which is about a few months from. there is so many people that i have heard say, why are not we teaching some of these skills? well, a lot of skills that you have just described come into that. senator hudson, i know, like you said, you could talk the whole program about this particular effort, but appreciate the time this morning in phyllis and. absolutely. thank you. all right. so we are working to bring duval county school leaders into talk with us on our show as well. as you may know, the district is pushing for a half cent sales tax to go on the ballot. we want you to hear the plans from the board chair and the superintendent. plus, before the month is through, we will have seen the first presidential candidate debates in election 2020, believe it or not. i will be covering those for you from south florida. this week in jacksonville airs each sunday morning of this time. i am kent justice. thanks for watching on air and channel four in the cw-17 and online at newsprojects.com.