i want to give you a perspective from 41 years of law enforcement, 12 of this year, riding the streets of jacksonville, florida. i can tell you one of the things that i learned during that 41 years and a lot of this room can tell you as well is security is always a multi-layered approach. so as we talk about the background checks, who can buy a gun, who cannot, all of those things are important. and all of those are parts of the security that we can create for our country. but know this, and you said it, all of that can break down and someone go into a gun-free zone and just kill it will. the defenseless people. so number one for security from the law enforcement perspective is you have to have, the only thing and it sounds cliche, but it is cliche because it is true. the only thing that stops a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun. and so you have to have those officers or some armed security at our schools. now the issue is, and we talk about those are areas where there are no guns. the reason i carry a concealed firearm everywhere i go is because i do not know where those gun-free zones are that i may be walking through with them all or at the donut shop or wherever i might be. so that is why i carry concealed. so that i can protect myself. i can protect my family who might be with me. and i can protect all of those around me who choose not to carry a firearm. but you are not allowed to conceal that a gun-free zone. no, well, so what do you do? you cannot carry in those areas. and so you are, you are, i mean i am a will like everybody else. so that is why the most dangerous places. exactly. and that is why we need to look at, i think, going back to the concealed carry issue of national reciprocity. i just do not think you are going to get the proof of it. you are not going to get concealed carry proof. amy and diane. you are right. a lot of other people, they, people they are never going to consider, but people make consider it. but they are not going to consider it in this bill. all it is going to mean, you know, is that we do not want to know why we are gun-free zones. as far as i am concerned, and i would do it with the military. in fact, i am looking to get rid of gun-free zones in the military bases with gun-free zones. there is five incredible soldiers, three of whom were championship shooters that were nowhere near their gun in this white job walked in and killed all of them. and they were defenseless. and if they had their guns, he would have been gun in a second. and every time i walk in the someplace, carrying a concealed eye-in, a gun-free zone, whether it is a restaurant, whether it is a, you know, a grocery store or a military base. whatever it might be. so, so, and let me close with this because the mental health piece, i think, is going to be critical for law enforcement. we have, we actually take folks who are in danger of themselves or others. we bake or act them in florida, it is called the bake or act. it is a crisis stabilization process. they are there for three days, 72 hours. they get stabilized. they get out. we have to give them their guns back. i tried not to do that one time and actually got sued and lost the case. had to give the guns back and we got fined. so, the state of florida has this bill that was mentioned earlier that the senate just passed. it has these risk protection orders built in this. and those, and there is some states that already have that, i believe. and i think those are going to be critical for law enforcement to help make the guns out of the hands of these individuals who we know should not be carrying. and then we need to make sure that those individuals get placed into the national background check system. and mr. president, the vice president.