thank you, mr. chairman. i have to tell you, our anglers back home, their main lament right now is, you know, noah closed our seasons because too many fish are being, or because there were not enough fish. now they are closing our season because there is too many fish being caught and discarded. and so, you know, one of the things that i would like to go to you, is that there is, in your own report on stock assessment page five, it says, this is all about, and this goes back to mr. women's point. and there is scientific uncertainty. and in fact, the data uncertainty that is highlighted here is the exact reason that we are restricting red snapper. and that is commercial discards and recreational discards. that is the data uncertainty in your biomass determination. and then, of course, population dynamic uncertainty under sources of recruitment and environmental changes. so, my, and so now in light of all that, i want to ask you this question. does my bill stop the implementation of anything in the council's recommendation to stop noah's perceived over fishing? is there anything in my bill that stops you from going forward with what the council already passed? thank you for that question, congressman. noah recognizes the issues associated with the discards. i have only got five minutes. is there anything in my bill that stops the council from going forward with the recommendations to stop over fishing that you have already implemented? noah will be taking the recommendations from the council meeting and looking at those to make sure that they are consistent with magnus and stevens and then moving forward. the answer is no. there is nothing in my bill that will stop you from moving forward with those council recommendations. now, let me ask you, now, you have not recommended closing the bottom. is that, the closures are not the recommendation right now. is that correct? that is correct. the council has not recommended. can you tell me why? i think that they took the best scientific advice in it this time, did decide not to proceed with a time area closure as part of the management tools available to them. okay. so, looking at your biomass calculations and the uncertainty that is built into that, that you recognize, it is in your own report on page five, do you think that noah's abundance data is reliable? thank you, congressman. i am not familiar with the exact report you are referring to. and so, i cannot address that specific question at this time. i will show it to you. so, let me ask you this. do you think that noah's data on recreational discards is reliable? thank you, congressman. i think this is an issue that we continue to need more information on. and i think that- i am going to stop you there because you just said exactly what this bill is all about. getting you more data. getting you good data. reliable data. so, when you make these assumptions about biomass, we can be much closer to the truth. mr. chairman, that is what this bill is all about. it simply says, do not close the bottom until this great red snapper count is completed, which we have funded in a very bipartisan way, $5 million over the last four years, to have this third party independent study. all it says is do not close the bottom until we get that information in, and you can then add that into your data. look, i believe if you have good data, you can make better decisions. and that is all i want to do is help you make better decisions with good data. not the data that you recognize is not data uncertainty, commercial discards, recreational discards, population dynamic uncertainty. you get a lot of uncertainties built into your models, and it is not an easy issue. that is why this count is so important. and i think some other things that can be done as well, but that is why this bill needs to pass, and i thank you for your time.