Nov 24, 2025
|
In The News
,
News
,
Press Releases
Washington, D.C.
— U.S. Senator Ted Budd (R-N.C.) recently introduced the American Allies Protection Act,
legislation
which would disqualify a state or local government from receiving Department of Justice grant money for a four-year period if it enforces an International Criminal Court (ICC) warrant against an official of a NATO ally or major non-NATO ally.
On November 21, 2024, the ICC issued baseless arrest warrants for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former Defense Minister Gallant. As recently as last week, New York City Mayor-elect Zohran Mamdani has repeatedly stated he would order the arrest of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu if the Prime Minister visited New York City.
Upon introducing this legislation, Sen. Budd said:
“Mayor-Elect Mamdani’s pledge to facilitate the arrest of Benjamin Netanyahu is not just ridiculous; it represents a grave threat that could seriously damage America’s relationship with our closest allies and partners. The United States is not bound by the morally bankrupt ICC or the Rome Statute, displaying that Mamdani’s comments aren’t based in respect for any law, but rather to virtue signal to his radical, anti-Israel base. Seeking to prevent Prime Minister Netanyahu from setting foot in New York, home to the United Nations, would put Israel at a unique disadvantage at a critical time for the nation ahead of the next meeting of the U.N. General Assembly. It is unconscionable that the man elected to lead the city home to the largest Jewish population outside of Israel would seek to target Israel’s leader, and Congress must take action to hold any leader accountable should they pursue this blatant overreach. My American Allies Protection Act would disqualify any state or municipality from receiving Justice Department funds should they take action that would harm America’s standing with our allies by throwing their governments into complete chaos.”
READ:
GOP senator calls Mamdani’s Netanyahu arrest vow a ‘grave threat’ as he introduces defund bill
Background:
Protecting and welcoming American allies on U.S. soil is critical to strengthening bilateral relationships critical to our national security, particularly with NATO and non-NATO allies. Mayor-Elect Mamdani’s stated goal would harm our bilateral relationship with Israel and align NYC with a morally bankrupt international organization, the ICC. This demands forceful consequences.
Notably, the ICC has failed to issue an arrest warrant for Iranian Ayatollah Khamenei, who has directly bolstered and facilitated the terrorist activities of Iran’s proxies, that have targeted U.S. allies and are responsible for the death of American service members.
Sen. Budd’s American Allies Protection Act may only be waived if the President certifies to Congress that enforcing a particular ICC warrant is essential to the national security of the U.S. and provides a detailed justification for this waiver.
For full text of the American Allies Protection Act, click
HERE
.
###
Signup for Newsletter Updates
Sign Up Today
Latest News
Senators Budd, Coons Lead Bicameral, Bipartisan Push to Reinvest in Domestic Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing
Nov 20, 2025
Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senators Ted Budd (R-N.C.) and Chris Coons (D-Del.) introduced the bicameral,...
read more
Senator Budd Leads Colleagues in Effort to Ban Terrorist Sympathizers from the United States
Nov 20, 2025
Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senator Ted Budd (R-N.C.) introduced the Terrorist Inadmissibility Codification...
read more
Budd Delivers Remarks Celebrating Vulcan Elements $1B Investment in N.C. to Reshore Rare Earth Magnet Industry
Nov 18, 2025
Washington, D.C. — Today, U.S. Senator Ted Budd (R-N.C.) joined state and local leaders in delivering remarks...
read more
Read More News