Jul 20, 2023
Washington, D.C.
— Today, Senator Ted Budd (R-NC) introduced the Promoting Employment and Lifelong Learning (PELL) Act. He was joined by Sen. Rick Scott (R-FL).
The bill creates a Workforce Pell Grant to expand Pell Grant eligibility to high-quality, short-term job training programs.
The House companion, H.R. 496, was led by Republican Conference Chair Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Education and the Workforce Committee Chairwoman Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Rep. Jim Banks (R-IN), Rep. Ashley Hinson (R-IA), and Agriculture Committee Chair “GT” Thompson (R-PA).
The full text of the bill is HERE
Background:
The Promoting Employment and Lifelong Learning (PELL) Act:
Expands Pell Grant eligibility
: Creates a Workforce Pell Grant for high-quality, short-term programs so students can move into a job quickly.
Avoids red tape
: Provides clear requirements for programs focused on delivering skills education.
Promotes work
: Allows all education providers to participate as long as they meet certain requirements, including that students will be qualified to work following program completion.
Reduces waste
: Ensures program prices are aligned with economic value so students and taxpayers receive a positive return on investment within three years or less.
Increases transparency
: Requires the Department of Education to publish program costs and outcomes on the College Scorecard so students and families are aware of the high-quality education opportunities available to them.
Senator Budd said in a statement:
“Instead of saddling students with more debt and taxpayers with more risk, this bill expands Pell Grants to provide more opportunity for students to gain skills and enter the workforce in high-demand industries. This bill will also help mid-career professionals gain industry-recognized education to further their career development. Not every worker needs an expensive four-year university degree. That’s why Congress should be creating new educational options that equip folks with the skills necessary to become productive members of the workforce.
###
Signup for Newsletter Updates
Sign Up Today
Latest News
New Budd Bill Would Hold Mamdani, Municipalities Accountable Following Threats To Enforce International Criminal Court Arrest Warrants
Nov 24, 2025
Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senator Ted Budd (R-N.C.) recently introduced the American Allies Protection...
read more
Senators Budd, Coons Lead Bicameral, Bipartisan Push to Reinvest in Domestic Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing
Nov 20, 2025
Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senators Ted Budd (R-N.C.) and Chris Coons (D-Del.) introduced the bicameral,...
read more
Senator Budd Leads Colleagues in Effort to Ban Terrorist Sympathizers from the United States
Nov 20, 2025
Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senator Ted Budd (R-N.C.) introduced the Terrorist Inadmissibility Codification...
read more
Read More News