Nov 4, 2025
|
Disaster Recovery
,
Press Releases
Washington, D.C.
— U.S. Senator Ted Budd (R-N.C.) released the following statement after Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kristi Noem today, announced $155 million in public assistance reimbursements for Western North Carolina.
“I am grateful to Secretary Noem for approving $155 million in public assistance funding to reimburse Western North Carolina communities following Hurricane Helene. These funds are vital to ensure cleanup and rebuilding efforts do not continue to strain local government budgets more than a year later.
“After numerous conversations with Secretary Noem about ensuring that new Helene recovery projects receive swift approval and reimbursement, I have agreed to lift my hold on the DHS General Counsel nominee, James Percival, as soon as the approved funds are received by Western North Carolina communities.
“In light of the unprecedented threats against the brave men and women of ICE and CBP, as well as the near constant legal challenges to President Trump’s efforts to enforce America’s immigration laws, I agree that ensuring DHS has strong legal representation is critical.
“I remain very willing to use every lever of power I have as a U.S. Senator to ensure Western North Carolina is made whole and that federal funds are approved and disbursed on a rolling basis into the future,”
said Senator Budd.
###
Signup for Newsletter Updates
Sign Up Today
Latest News
New Budd Bill Would Hold Mamdani, Municipalities Accountable Following Threats To Enforce International Criminal Court Arrest Warrants
Nov 24, 2025
Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senator Ted Budd (R-N.C.) recently introduced the American Allies Protection...
read more
Senators Budd, Coons Lead Bicameral, Bipartisan Push to Reinvest in Domestic Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing
Nov 20, 2025
Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senators Ted Budd (R-N.C.) and Chris Coons (D-Del.) introduced the bicameral,...
read more
Senator Budd Leads Colleagues in Effort to Ban Terrorist Sympathizers from the United States
Nov 20, 2025
Washington, D.C. — U.S. Senator Ted Budd (R-N.C.) introduced the Terrorist Inadmissibility Codification...
read more
Read More News