Skip to content
Click HERE to sign up for the monthly newsletter
Angus
King
Contact
About Angus
Biography
Committee Assignments
Issues
Legislation
Voting Record
Newsroom
Press Releases
Investing in Maine
Maine’s Veteran Voices
Video Clips
Podcast
Monthly Newsletter
Services
CDS and Appropriations Requests
Grants
Special Recognitions
Flag Requests
Internships
Student Resources
Veterans Services
Visiting DC
Academy Nominations
Capitol Coffees
Contact
Write to Angus
Help With A Federal Agency
Office Locations
Newsletter Sign-up
Scheduling Requests
Senator King Facebook
Senator King Twitter
Senator King Youtube
Newsroom
/
Press Releases
October 08, 2025
King Shares Updated Thoughts on the Ongoing Federal Government Shutdown
WASHINGTON, D.C.
– Today, U.S. Senator Angus King (I-ME) released the following statement providing an update to the ongoing federal government shutdown:
“The imminent expiration of the tax credits which make health insurance affordable for millions (including tens of thousands in Maine) is a totally avoidable crisis. They could and should have been extended earlier this year when the Republican-only tax bill was passed—which extended (and made permanent) tax breaks for billionaires.
“But it didn’t happen and the dramatic increase in health insurance premiums will hit in the next several weeks.
“That’s why I have been working intensely with Senators on both sides of the aisle to find a solution to this problem while at the same time trying get us out of the current increasingly dangerous government shutdown, so far without success.
“I intend to continue that work and as long as there are Republican Senators willing to talk, I’ll be at the table
“But as serious as the health insurance crisis is, I believe the shutdown itself and the additional powers it conveys to Donald Trump and his henchmen, is the greater risk. The greatest challenge our country faces right now is the accelerating slide toward authoritarianism. Troops in our cities, ignoring the law, defying the courts, trampling on the free press, weaponizing the legal system, and more examples everyday, have brought our country to the most dangerous moment in my lifetime.
“And this shutdown has the potential to make all this worse by further empowering Donald Trump, Steven Miller, and Russell Vought.
“That’s why I have decided to stick with my vote to reopen the government rather than continue the shutdown in the hopes of coming to a resolution on health insurance. This is not an easy decision—made more so by the Republicans’ refusal to even discuss the health insurance issue—but in the end, I have determined that preserving our democracy has to be the highest priority.
“I hope I’m wrong about this risk, but the stakes are too high to take that chance.”
###
Print
Email
share
tweet
Next Article »
« Previous Article