Skip to content
Click HERE to sign up for the monthly newsletter
Angus
King
Contact
About Angus
Biography
Committee Assignments
Issues
Legislation
Voting Record
Newsroom
Press Releases
Investing in Maine
Maine’s Veteran Voices
Video Clips
Podcast
Monthly Newsletter
Services
CDS and Appropriations Requests
Grants
Special Recognitions
Flag Requests
Internships
Student Resources
Veterans Services
Visiting DC
Academy Nominations
Capitol Coffees
Contact
Write to Angus
Help With A Federal Agency
Office Locations
Newsletter Sign-up
Scheduling Requests
Senator King Facebook
Senator King Twitter
Senator King Youtube
Newsroom
/
Press Releases
October 10, 2025
Senate Passes King-Backed Legislation Supporting Maine Economy and Strengthening National Security
Destroyer for Bath Iron Works, support for servicemembers and families, improved brain health measures, White House oversight included in defense bill
WASHINGTON, D.C.
— Today, the U.S. Senate voted to pass the bipartisan
Fiscal Year 2026 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA
) by a 77-20 vote. U.S. Senator Angus King (I-ME), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC), had previously worked with his colleagues to secure strong investments in Maine’s economy and America’s national defense. This legislation will support servicemembers and their families and boost the Maine economy through support for the hundreds of businesses that serve the military’s technological and manufacturing needs. Earlier this year, Senator King led the Senate Armed Services Committee in supporting bipartisan measures for the finalized legislation that passed out of committee.
The legislation includes several provisions that Senator King backed, including: support for servicemembers an Arleigh Burke-class destroyer for Bath Iron Works (BIW), a comprehensive new approach to monitoring brain health, aggressive policies to strengthen America’s cybersecurity, provisions to address the security threats posed by artificial intelligence, and measures to prevent illegal drugs from entering the country. The bill will now be conferenced with the House of Representatives before heading to the President’s desk for signature.
“For over six decades, Congress has taken a bipartisan approach to ensure that America’s military and defense forces have the training and equipment to carry out their missions and protect our interests at home and abroad. This year, the Senate is continuing that tradition in passing a defense bill for the Department of Defense (DoD) that will make our nation safer and stronger,”
said Senator King.
“As our country faces some of its greatest challenges, the bill makes important investments in Maine people and businesses that are critical to the safety and security of our country.
“There are many important provisions in this legislation – including support for troops and their families, investment in Maine research, and needed oversight of the Department of Defense,”
continued Senator King.
“All told, this year’s defense bill will make our country safer, strengthen our economy, and support the men and women who fight for our freedoms.”
The
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2026
includes King-backed provisions to
:
INVEST IN MAINE SHIPBUILDING AND INSTALLATIONS.
The FY26 NDAA authorizes $5.4 billion for two DDG-51 Arleigh Burke-class destroyers, including one that Bath Iron Works will build beyond the previously approved funding in the continuing resolution. $450 million in additional funding is provided for investments in shipyard infrastructure that will also benefit Bath Iron Works and Huntington Ingalls.
This legislation also authorizes the funding for Portsmouth Naval Shipyard (PNSY) modernization efforts – including the final phase of funding for the Dry Dock extension that will allow PNSY to continue to maintain the Navy’s submarine fleet
.
The bill includes an effort co-sponsored by Senator King that empowers shipyards across the country to make their own hiring decisions based on the workforce needs of their property and not leave these determinations for military officials to make from a distance.
PREVENT AND PROTECT BRAIN HEALTH.
Included in this legislation is a report specifically requested by Senator King to protect servicemembers from blast exposure and address TBI through weapons sensor development led by a Maine business. Also included is a provision encouraging the DOD to maintain robust oversight and ensure timely implementation of suicide prevention recommendations, particularly those of the Suicide Prevention and Response Independent Review Committee.
HELP ADDRESS HOUSING ALLOWANCE SHORTFALLS FOR SERVICEMEMBERS.
The FY26 NDAA will require the DOD to publish how housing allowances are calculated, what housing types are covered, and to pilot a new calculation method based on rental costs by bedroom size. This is on the heels of last year’s Defense bill which increased Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) rates. Maine servicemembers including members of the Coast Guard will benefit.
IMPROVE THE “WARM HANDOFF” SHIFT FROM ACTIVE DUTY TO CIVILIAN.
Included in this bill is a signature priority of Senator King’s that improves sharing of information between the Defense Department and State Veterans Agencies. Maine Bureau of Veterans Services advocated for this reform that will impact all servicemembers and help address the proven high-risk period when servicemembers leave the military.
SUPPORT FOR UKRAINE.
The FY26 NDAA reaffirms that it is the policy of the United States to assist Ukraine in maintaining a credible defense and deterrence capability and to bolster defense and security cooperation with Ukraine to build a Ukrainian military that is capable of defending Ukraine and deterring future aggression.
ENHANCE DETERRENCE THROUGH CYBERSECURITY.
The bill includes the King-led provision to require the DOD create a credible cyber deterrent strategy against cyberattacks by mid-2026.
MODERNIZE OUR NUCLEAR DETERRENT.
As Cochairman of the Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, Senator King is a Congressional leader working to ensure the bipartisan effort to provide oversight of strategic programs from the nuclear triad to missile defense. Sen King advocated to include important provisions addressing nuclear non-proliferation were included. The bill strengthens the nuclear triad and nuclear command and control including cyber protections and addressing concerns with artificial intelligence. The bill also includes important oversight of the NNSA and nuclear modernization programs, and missile defense programs to help address cost and defense industrial base concerns.
###
Print
Email
share
tweet
Next Article »
« Previous Article