Skip to content
Click HERE to sign up for the monthly newsletter
Angus
King
Contact
About Angus
Biography
Committee Assignments
Issues
Legislation
Voting Record
Newsroom
Press Releases
Investing in Maine
Maine’s Veteran Voices
Video Clips
Podcast
Monthly Newsletter
Services
CDS and Appropriations Requests
Grants
Special Recognitions
Flag Requests
Internships
Student Resources
Veterans Services
Visiting DC
Academy Nominations
Capitol Coffees
Contact
Write to Angus
Help With A Federal Agency
Office Locations
Newsletter Sign-up
Scheduling Requests
Senator King Facebook
Senator King Twitter
Senator King Youtube
Newsroom
/
Press Releases
September 30, 2025
King Votes to Block Trump Administration Attempt to Gut the Federal Government and Essential Services
Government shutdown begins at midnight
WASHINGTON, D.C.—
Today, U.S. Senator Angus King (I-ME) voted to keep the government open because a shutdown will give President Trump the ability to do far greater damage – plans he shared in public comments earlier today. A full statement can be found below:
“I just came from the Senate floor where I took one of the most difficult votes I've taken since I've been in the Senate. I voted to keep the government open for a continuing resolution. The irony of this vote is, many feel that this was an opportunity to stand up to Donald Trump, to vote no and to fight back.
“The irony – the paradox is – by shutting the government, we're actually giving Donald Trump more power. And that was why I voted yes. I did not want to hand Donald Trump and Russell Vought and Stephen Miller additional power to decimate the federal government, to decimate the programs that are so important to so many people.
“Here is what Donald Trump said just this afternoon:
‘We can do things during a shutdown that are irreversible, that are bad for them. He means the Democrats like cutting vast numbers of people out, cutting things that they like, cutting programs that they like. We can do things medically in other ways, including benefits we can cut numbers of people out.’
“Maya Angelou once said,
‘If someone tells you who they are, you should believe them.’
Donald Trump, in this quote, tells us what he plans to do if there's a shutdown and it will not be good for the American people. This was a difficult vote, but in the end, I could not, in good conscience, vote to shut the government down and hand even greater power to the trio of Donald Trump, Stephen Miller and Russell Vought. This was a vote of conscience on behalf of the State of Maine and the people of the United States.”
###
Print
Email
share
tweet
Next Article »
« Previous Article