Skip to content
Click HERE to sign up for the monthly newsletter
Angus
King
Contact
About Angus
Biography
Committee Assignments
Issues
Legislation
Voting Record
Newsroom
Press Releases
Investing in Maine
Maine’s Veteran Voices
Video Clips
Podcast
Monthly Newsletter
Services
CDS and Appropriations Requests
Grants
Special Recognitions
Flag Requests
Internships
Student Resources
Veterans Services
Visiting DC
Academy Nominations
Capitol Coffees
Contact
Write to Angus
Help With A Federal Agency
Office Locations
Newsletter Sign-up
Scheduling Requests
Senator King Facebook
Senator King Twitter
Senator King Youtube
Newsroom
/
Press Releases
November 19, 2025
King Cosponsors Effort to Repeal Provision Allowing Lawmakers to Sue Justice Department for Phone Surveillance
Bill would repeal a provision added to last week’s Continuing Resolution allowing senators to collect $500,000 per lawfully subpoenaed phone record
WASHINGTON,
D.C.
— U.S. Senator Angus King (I-ME), alongside 27 of his colleagues, has introduced legislation to prevent the special protection of lawmakers in federal investigations. The
Anti-Cash Grab Act
would repeal a provision — quietly added at the last minute into the Senate government funding bill — that would award $500,000 or more in damages to senators whose records were lawfully obtained by the Department of Justice (DOJ) if their cases are successful in a court of law.
The bill comes after the Senate Judiciary Committee released FBI records related to “Arctic Frost,” a 2021 investigation into efforts to overthrow the 2020 election. During the investigation, former Special Counsel Jack Smith legally subpoenaed the phone records of eight Republican senators, as well as hundreds of Republican officials, activists and organizations.
“The American people deserve transparency and accountability, and that’s what we ought to be delivering — not sneaking 11
th
hour provisions into a bill to end the longest running government shutdown in our nation’s history,”
said Senator King
. “The
Anti-Cash Grab Act
makes it crystal clear that lawmakers should not be granted special privileges when federal investigations legally look into their activities. Period. This was a bad faith provision that has created a bipartisan outcry, and I’m urging all my colleagues to support efforts to overturn it.”
The
Anti-Cash Grab Act
is sponsored by U.S. Senators Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Mark Kelly (D-AZ), Angela Alsobrooks (D-MD), Tammy Baldwin (D-WI.), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT.), Chris Coons (D-DE), Catherine Cortez Masto (D-NV), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Ed Markey (D-MA), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), Alex Padilla (D-CA), Gary Peters (D-MI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Brain Schatz (D-HI), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Peter Welch (D-VT), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and Ron Wyden (D-OR).
###
Print
Email
share
tweet
Next Article »
« Previous Article