Skip to content
Click HERE to sign up for the monthly newsletter
Angus
King
Contact
About Angus
Biography
Committee Assignments
Issues
Legislation
Voting Record
Newsroom
Press Releases
Investing in Maine
Maine’s Veteran Voices
Video Clips
Podcast
Monthly Newsletter
Services
CDS and Appropriations Requests
Grants
Special Recognitions
Flag Requests
Internships
Student Resources
Veterans Services
Visiting DC
Academy Nominations
Capitol Coffees
Contact
Write to Angus
Help With A Federal Agency
Office Locations
Newsletter Sign-up
Scheduling Requests
Senator King Facebook
Senator King Twitter
Senator King Youtube
Newsroom
/
Press Releases
November 14, 2025
King, Rounds Lead Bipartisan Push for Release of Visas to Support Small Businesses
Senator Collins joined the bipartisan coalition seeking thousands of available visas to be released in fiscal year 2026
WASHINGTON, D.C.
– U.S. Senators Angus King (I-ME) and Mike Rounds (R-SD) are leading a bipartisan push for the release of supplemental H-2B seasonal employment visas to support small businesses across the United States. In a
letter
to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem and Department of Labor Secretary Lori Chavez-DeRemer
that Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) and Senate Majority Leader Thune (R-SD) also joined in signing, King, Rounds and their colleagues call on the Administration to release the maximum allowable number of additional H-2B visas for fiscal year (FY) 2026. H-2B visas fill workforce needs for American small businesses that are unable to hire enough American workers to fill the temporary, seasonal positions –
and bipartisan research shows
employing these workers boosts wages across the board.
As required by law, employers must first make a concerted effort to hire American workers to fill open positions; when the local workforce is insufficient, the H-2B
visa program is seen as a necessary tool to support local economies. With Maine continuing to experience a shortage of seasonal and temporary employees, these nonimmigrant visas provide a lifeline for the economy and ensure small businesses can meet the demand for their products and services.
“These visas will allow employers to supplement their U.S. workforce to keep their businesses open, as well as provide additional certainty regarding their workforce planning decisions in the coming months,”
wrote the senators.
“Chronic labor shortages—faced by seasonal U.S. employers throughout the nation’s history—have been exacerbated by the post-pandemic evolution of the American workforce
.
As this need grows, so does the pressure on U.S. workers, whose employers’ workforce needs cannot be met with American workers alone. The H-2B program places requirements on employers to recruit U.S. workers, who are intentionally prioritized by the program and receive demonstrated, positive impacts from their seasonal colleagues. In fact, a 2020 Government Accountability Office report concluded that “counties with H-2B employers generally had lower unemployment rates and higher average weekly wages than counties that do not have any H-2B employers.”
]
Issuing the extra discretionary H-2B visas in a timely manner will help alleviate these workforce shortages and, in doing so, will help create and sustain the jobs of American workers who rely on the H-2B workers to support their duties during their peak seasons,”
the senators continued.
H-2B workers support American job growth and small businesses, by filling seasonal labor shortages. Bipartisan research has found a direct correlation between increased numbers of H-2B workers and a rise in pay across the board for all employees. As required by law, employers must first make a concerted effort to hire American workers to fill open positions. H-2B visas fill needs for American small businesses when there are not enough able and willing American workers to fill the temporary, seasonal positions.
“The H-2B worker program is vital resource for hotel owners and operators to meet seasonal demands, while also supporting local employment. Each H-2B worker supports about three to five local U.S. jobs. With major events like the World Cup and America 250 on the horizon, we urge the Department of Homeland Security to release supplemental visas immediately so hotels can plan for the influx of travel demand and show the world what American hospitality looks like,”
said American Hotel & Lodging President & CEO Rosanna Maietta.
King and Rounds were joined on the letter by U.S. Senators Chris Coons (D-DE), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), Deb Fischer (R-NE), Tim Scott (R-SC), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Michael Crapo (R-ID), Susan Collins (R-ME), John Barrasso (R-WY), Pete Ricketts (R-Neb), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-Miss.), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Thom Tillis (R-NC), Raphael Warnock (D-GA), Steve Daines (R-MT), Jerry Moran (R-KS), John Hickenlooper (D-CO), Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Elissa Slotkin (D-MI), John Thune (R-SD), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Tina Smith (D-MN), Maggie Hassan (D-NH), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Peter Welch (D-VT), Angela Alsobrooks (D-MD), Jim Risch (R-ID), and Maria Cantwell (D-WA).
You can find the letter
HERE
and below.
+++
Dear Secretary Noem and Secretary Chavez-DeRemer,
We write on behalf of the seasonal businesses in our states who lack sufficient employees to support their operations and sustain their businesses. In light of these labor shortages, we respectfully urge that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), in consultation with the Department of Labor (DOL), utilize the authority provided by Congress in the current Continuing Resolution
to release the maximum allowable number of additional H-2B for Fiscal Year 2026. These visas will allow employers to supplement their U.S. workforce to keep their businesses open, as well as provide additional certainty regarding their workforce planning decisions in the coming months.
Chronic labor shortages—faced by seasonal U.S. employers throughout the nation’s history—have been exacerbated by the post-pandemic evolution of the American workforce. As this need grows, so does the pressure on U.S. workers, whose employers’ workforce needs cannot be met with American workers alone. The H-2B program places requirements on employers to recruit U.S. workers, who are intentionally prioritized by the program and receive demonstrated, positive impacts from their seasonal colleagues. In fact, a 2020 Government Accountability Office report concluded that “counties with H-2B employers generally had lower unemployment rates and higher average weekly wages than counties that do not have any H-2B employers.” Issuing the extra discretionary H-2B visas in a timely manner will help alleviate these workforce shortages and, in doing so, will help create and sustain the jobs of American workers who rely on the H-2B workers to support their duties during their peak seasons.
It is important to note that supplemental visas are set aside specifically for either returning workers or workers from Northern Central American (NCA) countries. Many returning workers are those who return to their qualified employer each year and are core members of their respective organizations, supplementing and supporting U.S. workers. NCA workers are carved out with a special tranche of visas to help foster regional stability in these impoverished nations. In addition, H-2B workers return to their home country at the end of the season and then use the legal process to return to the qualified U.S. employer for the next season. This exemption for NCA countries was initially introduced during President Trump’s first term, allowing many seasonal businesses to invest in these workers, even as they continue to work with the returning workers eligible under the parameters of the supplemental tranche of H-2B visas.
An efficient analysis, issuance of a rule, and release of these visas allows the supplemental tranche of H-2B visas to meet the seasonal market demand during the market cycles when they are most needed. We thank you for your continued support—in recognizing the vital benefit to the economy of these seasonal, temporary work visas—and we are hopeful the maximum allowable FY26 supplemental visas will promptly be released pursuant to Congressional authority and in the same manner as in the three previous years.
###
Print
Email
share
tweet
Next Article »
« Previous Article