Skip to content
Click HERE to sign up for the monthly newsletter
Angus
King
Contact
About Angus
Biography
Committee Assignments
Issues
Legislation
Voting Record
Newsroom
Press Releases
Investing in Maine
Maine’s Veteran Voices
Video Clips
Podcast
Monthly Newsletter
Services
CDS and Appropriations Requests
Grants
Special Recognitions
Flag Requests
Internships
Student Resources
Veterans Services
Visiting DC
Academy Nominations
Capitol Coffees
Contact
Write to Angus
Help With A Federal Agency
Office Locations
Newsletter Sign-up
Scheduling Requests
Senator King Facebook
Senator King Twitter
Senator King Youtube
Newsroom
/
Press Releases
November 20, 2025
King, Collins Urgently Request Certainty on Tariffs for Maine’s Forest Products Industry
Last year, Maine exported roughly 2 million tons of wood and imported nearly 2.3 million tons of wood
WASHINGTON, D.C
. – Today, U.S. Senators Angus King (I-ME) and Susan Collins (R-ME) are urgently requesting tariff relief for Maine’s forest products industry. In a
letter
to Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, Agriculture Secretary Brooke Rollins, Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick, and U.S. Trade Representative Jamieson Greer, the Maine Senators called for prompt support to Maine’s forest product manufacturers, many of whom are struggling with added costs because of the tariffs.
The Maine forest products industry is deeply interconnected with Canada. Last year alone, Maine
exported
roughly 2 million tons of wood. Similarly, and within the same time frame, Maine
imported
2.3 million tons of wood.
“We are gravely concerned about the impact of the tariffs imposed on imports of timber and lumber on the forest products industry. This industry is part of Maine’s heritage, boosting our state’s economy, creating thousands of good-paying jobs in rural communities, and providing essential products to consumers across the United States. As such, we request that the Administration provide immediate and meaningful relief to this industry, which is already struggling to survive,”
the Senators wrote.
They continued,
“We are aware that the Administration is considering measures to provide aid to agricultural industries that cannot weather the headwinds in global markets as a result of the tariffs. Accordingly, we believe that the forestry products industry should be eligible and included in any relief program. Maine’s mills require certainty and predictability to plan, and the added costs from the tariffs are raising prices that they cannot absorb in a competitive global marketplace. The potential of retaliatory tariffs also poses a devasting threat.”
“In closing, we are supportive of the Administration’s goal to strengthen domestic manufacturing and the U.S. forestry industry. However, as trade negotiations continue, we ask that you provide prompt relief to our hardworking forestry product manufacturers so they can thrive now and for years to come,”
the Senators concluded.
As a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Senator King is seen as a national leader in efforts to support Maine’s forest products industry. Senators King and Collins previously introduced the bipartisan
Future Logging Careers Act
to help train the next generation of Maine loggers and the
bipartisan
Timber Innovation for Building Rural Communities Act
to improve forest health and support Maine’s rural economy. He also introduced
legislation
to establish a “
Future of Forests
” panel tasked with making recommendations to secure the health of America’s forests. Senators King and Collins were key in establishing
the Forest Opportunity Roadmap Maine (FOR/ME) Initiative
, a participant-led initiative that is helping to diversify the state’s wood products businesses, attract investments, support research and development, and develop greater economic prosperity for rural communities impacted by mill closures. In July, Senators Collins and King
introduced
the
Loggers Economic Assistance and Relief Act
, which would establish a new program within the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to support loggers who have lost income due to natural disasters.
The full text of the letter can be found
here
and below.
+++
Dear Secretary Bessent, Secretary Rollins, Secretary Lutnick, and Ambassador Greer,
We are gravely concerned about the impact of the tariffs imposed on imports of timber and lumber on the forest products industry. This industry is part of Maine’s heritage, boosting our state’s economy, creating thousands of good-paying jobs in rural communities, and providing essential products to consumers across the United States. As such, we request that the Administration provide immediate and meaningful relief to this industry, which is already struggling to survive.
Over the years, the forest products industry has faced enormous challenges. Due to Maine’s geographic proximity, our forest economy is deeply intertwined with our neighbor, Canada. Each day, our sawmills and pulp and paper mills move wood products across the United States-Canada border. Last year alone, Maine exported roughly two million tons of wood and imported 2.3 million tons, mostly to and from Canada. Shortly after the timber and lumber tariffs went into effect on October 14, 2025, forestry products and shipments from Maine exporters were unable to reach their destination, causing widespread confusion and disrupting supply chains.
We are aware that the Administration is considering measures to provide aid to agricultural industries that cannot weather the headwinds in global markets as a result of the tariffs. Accordingly, we believe that the forestry products industry should be eligible and included in any relief program. Maine’s mills require certainty and predictability to plan, and the added costs from the tariffs are raising prices that they cannot absorb in a competitive global marketplace. The potential of retaliatory tariffs also poses a devasting threat. Our mills are holding back on future investments, and some are also cancelling planned expansions. We fear that it has already become financially unfeasible for some of our mills to operate at full capacity, and this challenge will only be exacerbated as time goes on. Our state has already lost more than half our mills over the past thirty years from our peak, and risk of future mill closures is high. The impact of these closures will be felt acutely by Maine people, nearly 30,000 of whom rely on this industry for their jobs, as well as Americans struggling with the ongoing affordability crisis and lack of adequate housing supply.
In closing, we are supportive of the Administration’s goal to strengthen domestic manufacturing and the U.S. forestry industry. However, as trade negotiations continue, we ask that you provide prompt relief to our hardworking forestry product manufacturers so they can thrive now and for years to come. We welcome the opportunity to continue working with the Administration to ensure that the American forest products industry can compete, grow, and prosper. Thank you for your attention to this matter.
Sincerely,
###
Print
Email
share
tweet
Next Article »
« Previous Article