Skip to content
Click HERE to sign up for the monthly newsletter
Angus
King
Contact
About Angus
Biography
Committee Assignments
Issues
Legislation
Voting Record
Newsroom
Press Releases
Investing in Maine
Maine’s Veteran Voices
Video Clips
Podcast
Monthly Newsletter
Services
CDS and Appropriations Requests
Grants
Special Recognitions
Flag Requests
Internships
Student Resources
Veterans Services
Visiting DC
Academy Nominations
Capitol Coffees
Contact
Write to Angus
Help With A Federal Agency
Office Locations
Newsletter Sign-up
Scheduling Requests
Senator King Facebook
Senator King Twitter
Senator King Youtube
Newsroom
/
Press Releases
September 25, 2025
Senators King, Collins Celebrate National Lobster Day
WASHINGTON, D.C. —
U.S. Senators Angus King and Susan Collins are celebrating Maine’s iconic lobster industry after the Senate unanimously passed their bipartisan resolution recognizing September 25, 2025 as “National Lobster Day.” The resolution recognizes the crustacean as a foundational part of Maine’s economy and culture, as well as highlights the environmental and economic impact of this important industry.
“Lobsters are synonymous with Maine’s identity, history, and culture,” said Senator King and Collins. “Fueling the lobster’s iconic status are the hardworking men and women who wake up early every morning in towns across our coastline to carry on the proud lobstering tradition. Together, they work to ensure the long-term health, resiliency, and sustainability of our waters. Today is an opportunity to not only honor Maine’s favorite crustacean, but to also recognize the success of our lobstermen and women who contribute hundreds of millions of dollars to our local economy, bringing immeasurable pride to our great state.”
“National Lobster Day is a chance to honor the tradition and impact of Maine Lobster — an industry that has sustained generations of families and coastal communities,” said Marianne LaCroix, Executive Director of the Maine Lobster Marketing Collaborative. “We’re grateful to Senator King and his office for recognizing the hardworking men and women who make this fishery possible and for helping ensure Maine Lobster remains a source of pride for Maine and a favorite on tables nationwide.”
Lobster is a top economic driver for the state of Maine, and in 2024, the industry brought in over $709,000,000. Senators King and Collins have been top advocates for the Maine lobster industry, securing more than $1.9 million for lobster research in 2024 to address critical knowledge gaps and improve fisheries. In 2022, Senators Collins and King secured a provision in the annual appropriations spending bill which included a regulatory reprieve to protect Maine’s sustainable lobster industry from misguided regulations that would have been devastating for the industry.
Read the full resolution
here.
###
Print
Email
share
tweet
Next Article »
« Previous Article