Skip to content
Click HERE to sign up for the monthly newsletter
Angus
King
Contact
About Angus
Biography
Committee Assignments
Issues
Legislation
Voting Record
Newsroom
Press Releases
Investing in Maine
Maine’s Veteran Voices
Video Clips
Podcast
Monthly Newsletter
Services
CDS and Appropriations Requests
Grants
Special Recognitions
Flag Requests
Internships
Student Resources
Veterans Services
Visiting DC
Academy Nominations
Capitol Coffees
Contact
Write to Angus
Help With A Federal Agency
Office Locations
Newsletter Sign-up
Scheduling Requests
Senator King Facebook
Senator King Twitter
Senator King Youtube
Newsroom
/
Press Releases
September 26, 2025
Maine Delegation Urges Department of Education to Continue Funding USM, UMF Upward Bound Programs
Washington, D.C.
– U.S. Senators Susan Collins and Angus King and U.S. Representatives Chellie Pingree and Jared Golden wrote to Education Secretary Linda McMahon urging her to reverse the Department of Education’s decision to terminate funding for two federally funded TRIO Upward Bound programs in Maine: the Veterans Upward Bound Program at the University of Southern Maine (USM) and the River Valley Upward Bound Program at the University of Maine at Farmington (UMF). The TRIO Upward Bound program helps prepare low-income and first-generation students for success in higher education by providing academic support, mentoring, and other college readiness services. Both the USM and UMF programs were awarded five-year TRIO grants in 2022 and expected funding to continue through 2027, but the Department recently notified them that funding would end prematurely on September 30, 2025. Both programs have filed formal requests for reconsideration.
“The Department’s decision to terminate funding for these Upward Bound programs is deeply upsetting, and the negative impact on the students enrolled in these two programs cannot be overstated,”
the Delegation wrote.
“Upward Bound has proven its effectiveness in the lives of countless first-generation and low-income students who often face barriers to accessing a college education,”
they continued.
“We have seen the lives of many young people changed by the TRIO program. In fact, some of our own staff members went through TRIO and tell us that they would not have pursued higher education but for the support and opportunities it provided.”
“Rather than terminate funding after the third year of this five-year grant, we urge you to use all available authorities to work with these programs and allow them to operate with continued funding in full compliance with the current Administration’s priorities. Given the importance of these TRIO programs to the students they serve, we are hopeful you will work with them achieve this outcome,”
the Delegation concluded.
The Veterans Upward Bound Program at USM currently serves 125 veterans and has a waitlist of additional veterans seeking services. Maine has one of the highest percentages of veterans in the nation. The River Valley Upward Bound Program at UMF serves roughly 60 students in Oxford County and, together with a partner program, supports 139 students across 14 high schools in Maine.
There are six other Upward Bound programs in the university system that have already received their continuation awards.
The full text of the letter can be read
here
.
###
Print
Email
share
tweet
Next Article »
« Previous Article