Skip to content
Click HERE to sign up for the monthly newsletter
Angus
King
Contact
About Angus
Biography
Committee Assignments
Issues
Legislation
Voting Record
Newsroom
Press Releases
Investing in Maine
Maine’s Veteran Voices
Video Clips
Podcast
Monthly Newsletter
Services
CDS and Appropriations Requests
Grants
Special Recognitions
Flag Requests
Internships
Student Resources
Veterans Services
Visiting DC
Academy Nominations
Capitol Coffees
Contact
Write to Angus
Help With A Federal Agency
Office Locations
Newsletter Sign-up
Scheduling Requests
Senator King Facebook
Senator King Twitter
Senator King Youtube
Newsroom
/
Press Releases
October 23, 2025
King Statement on Trump Administration’s Unauthorized Demolition of the Historic East Wing of the White House
“The White House does not belong to President Trump; it belongs to the American people”
WASHINGTON, D.C.
— Today, U.S. Senator Angus King (I-ME) released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration carrying out unauthorized demolition of the historic East Wing of the White House in order to build a $200 million, 90,000 square-foot ballroom:
“President Trump’s desecration of the White House is an insult to the American people and a betrayal of his obligation to safeguard our history and heritage. While each President has left some mark on the building, none has attempted to so drastically alter its fundamental structure and purpose. The proposed outsized ballroom will be twice as big as the entirety of the current White House and cover more than two acres.
“The White House does not belong to President Trump; it belongs to the American people – he is but a temporary resident with no right to despoil this iconic landmark on his personal whim. The house was purposefully never intended to be a palace, but rather a residence befitting a democratically-elected leader, and an important symbol of our rejection of the trappings of royalty.
“Echoing Ronald Reagan, my first thought is, ‘Mr. Trump, don’t tear down this house.’”
Originally, the Trump Administration claimed the ballroom expansion
would not interfere
with the existing structure of the White House. Presidents have the authority to make minor changes such as redecorating the private residence and Oval Office, but major structural changes must be reviewed by the National Capital Planning Commission (NCPC). As of October 22,
no plans have been filed
with the NCPC to demolish the East Wing and build the new structure. Prior to the demolition, the East Wing housed the Office of the First Lady and served as the primary public entrance.
###
Print
Email
share
tweet
Next Article »
« Previous Article