Skip to content
Click HERE to sign up for the monthly newsletter
Angus
King
Contact
About Angus
Biography
Committee Assignments
Issues
Legislation
Voting Record
Newsroom
Press Releases
Investing in Maine
Maine’s Veteran Voices
Video Clips
Podcast
Monthly Newsletter
Services
CDS and Appropriations Requests
Grants
Special Recognitions
Flag Requests
Internships
Student Resources
Veterans Services
Visiting DC
Academy Nominations
Capitol Coffees
Contact
Write to Angus
Help With A Federal Agency
Office Locations
Newsletter Sign-up
Scheduling Requests
Senator King Facebook
Senator King Twitter
Senator King Youtube
Newsroom
/
Press Releases
November 06, 2025
King Questions Experts on Improving Veterans Shifting to Civilian Life
Senator: Local VSOs should be assigned to help servicemembers transitioning from active duty
WASHINGTON, D.C.
— U.S. Senator Angus King (I-ME) spoke with Jared Lyon, National President and Chief Executive Officer of Student Veterans of America, and retired Colonel Barbara Carson, the
Managing Director of Programs and Services at Syracuse University’s D’Aniello Institute for Veterans and Military Families, in a hearing of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee (SVAC) about the importance of ensuring a smooth transition from active duty to veteran status. During the exchange, Senator King offered simple fixes — such as having servicemembers’ contact information automatically shared with state department of veterans’ affairs so that new veterans can be connected to resources in their home communities — that would ensure veterans are properly equipped with the information and resources needed to successfully resume civilian life. According to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA),
approximately 200,000 servicemembers
make the transition to civilian life each year.
“Really what we are talking about is transition,”
Senator King began.
“I believe the Department of the Defense and the V.A. combined should spend as much time, money, and effort on transition as they do on recruiting. There was a lot of activity, and it has improved recently, but it still is not where it wants to be. There are two or three issues I have been involved with, and I would like your quick thoughts. One is pre-enrolling in V.A. healthcare before you leave active duty. You are nodding. Is that a good idea?”
Caron replied,
“Yes, senator.”
“So, there is not that gap,”
Senator King continued.
“Secondly, Form 2648 has a box on it that says, ‘if you opt-in, [do you] want your contact information shared with a state veterans agency?’ We would like to change that to an opt-out because people often do not check boxes. [We want to] reverse the presumption so that people, unless they object to it, can have their contact [shared with state veterans agency]. My idea is if you get a state veterans organization structure in connection with VSOs, I would like someone to meet the new veteran when they are coming to the airport. That won't happen unless you have this, unless you reverse this presumption. Is that something you think is a good idea?”
Lyon answered,
“You can envision the honor flights we have to take the same concept to a newly returning veteran to a community. All politics is local, all transition is local. To the extent we can meet them at the airport that would be phenomenal.”
“But we can't do it unless we know they are coming, and the only way to know is if their contact info is conveyed. You would support that change?”
Senator King asked.
“We would support that change, the opt out,”
Lyon concluded.
Representing one of the states with the highest rates of military families and veterans per capita, Senator King is a staunch advocate for America’s servicemembers and veterans. A member of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee (SVAC), he works to ensure American veterans receive their earned benefits and that the VA is properly implementing various programs such as the
PACT Act
,
the
State Veterans Homes Domiciliary Care Flexibility Act
,
and the
John Scott Hannon Act.
In addition, he helped pass
the
Veterans COLA Act
, which increased benefits for 30,000 Maine veterans and their families. This fall, President Trump
signed
the bipartisan
Improving Veteran Experience Act
into law, legislation championed by Senator King.
Senator King has introduced
bipartisan legislation
alongside SVAC Chairman Senator Jerry Moran (R-KS) to improve care coordination for veterans who rely on both VA health care and Medicare. In February, Senator King was honored by the Disabled American Veterans as its 2025 Legislator of the Year. Last year, he was recognized by the Wounded Warrior Project as the
2024 Legislator of the Year
for his “outstanding legislative effort and achievement to improve the lives of the wounded, ill, and injured veterans.”
###
Print
Email
share
tweet
Next Article »
« Previous Article