Skip to content
Click HERE to sign up for the monthly newsletter
Angus
King
Contact
About Angus
Biography
Committee Assignments
Issues
Legislation
Voting Record
Newsroom
Press Releases
Investing in Maine
Maine’s Veteran Voices
Video Clips
Podcast
Monthly Newsletter
Services
CDS and Appropriations Requests
Grants
Special Recognitions
Flag Requests
Internships
Student Resources
Veterans Services
Visiting DC
Academy Nominations
Capitol Coffees
Contact
Write to Angus
Help With A Federal Agency
Office Locations
Newsletter Sign-up
Scheduling Requests
Senator King Facebook
Senator King Twitter
Senator King Youtube
Newsroom
/
Press Releases
October 30, 2025
King-Backed Legislation Would Keep Maine Families Fed During Government Shutdown
Nearly 170,000 Maine people receive SNAP benefits, over 18,000 rely on WIC to keep food on the table
WASHINGTON, D.C.
—U.S. Senator Angus King (I-ME) today cosponsored new legislation that would prevent the Trump administration from illegally withholding available funds for the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)
and the
Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC)
during the government shutdown. The
Keep SNAP and WIC Funded Act
directs the USDA to immediately release billions of dollars in available funds to ensure SNAP and WIC benefits continue uninterrupted, as the nation faces “
uncharted territory
” that could put America’s most vulnerable at risk. The legislation also requires the federal government to reimburse states for covering SNAP benefits during a shutdown.
“Maine families, children, veterans and seniors shouldn’t have to worry about losing access to food assistance because of political tactics,”
said Senator King
. “No one in this country should ever have to choose between paying the electric bill and putting dinner on the table. The
Keep SNAP and WIC Funded Act
is about decency and plain common sense, and it keeps faith with the Maine people who count on us most. In all our history, a shutdown has never meant Americans go hungry — and it shouldn’t start now.”
By law, the administration is required to use billions in available funding to keep SNAP benefits flowing in November;
guidance from the USDA
confirms the authority to use available funding during a shutdown.
Nearly 170,000 Maine people
— more than 12 percent of the state’s population — receive SNAP benefits. Several counties across the state are approaching or surpassing 20 percent of their population relying on these critical benefits. Nationwide,
approximately 42 million Americans
rely on this critical program. In 2024, over
18,000 Maine people
received WIC benefits. As it stands, if the current government shutdown extends into November, nutrition assistance would not be issued.
Senator King has also cosponsored legislation from Senator Josh Hawley (R-MO)
that would disburse SNAP benefits
after Friday’s deadline, but not WIC resources. Last week, Senator King joined 45 of his colleagues in
writing a letter
to Department of Agriculture Secretary Brooke Rollins calling on the USDA to release billions of dollars at its disposal to ensure Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits continue in November.
###
Print
Email
share
tweet
Next Article »
« Previous Article