WASHINGTON
– Today, Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations Chairman Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) and Senate Committee on the Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) demanded that Verizon, AT&T, and Lumen elaborate on the full extent of the Biden administration’s Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) efforts to obtain information relating to Members of Congress during the partisan “Arctic Frost” probe.
The chairmen’s inquiry comes in light of records they received from the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) showing employees of NARA, FBI, Department of Justice (DOJ), and United States Postal Inspection Service discussing subpoenas to the three companies as they collaborated on Arctic Frost and related investigative activities. The subpoenas referenced in the NARA OIG records appear to have been served prior to Special Counsel Jack Smith’s takeover of Arctic Frost. Verizon, AT&T, and Lumen have yet to produce subpoenas during the time frame referenced in the NARA OIG records.
Through whistleblower disclosures, Chairmen Johnson and Grassley have revealed that over 400 Republican organizations and individuals were targeted as part of “Arctic Frost,” and phone records for at least 13 Members of Congress were subpoenaed, including Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) (the newest addition).
The chairmen also sent letters to Southern First Bank, Microsoft, TDS Telecommunications, and six web platforms and social media companies to determine whether they were also recipients of subpoenas issued by either Smith or the Biden DOJ before Smith became Special Counsel.
A list of the senators’ latest Arctic Frost letters is below:
AT&T
Lumen
Verizon
Microsoft
Southern First Bank
TDS Telecommunications
Alphabet Inc.
Apple Inc.
Meta Platforms, Inc.
Snap Inc.
X Corp.
Yahoo, Inc.
Learn more about Sen. Johnson’s Arctic Frost oversight:
October 30, 2025:
Sens. Johnson, Grassley, Expose “Arctic Frost” Witch Hunt Targeting 430 Republicans
October 14, 2025:
Sen. Johnson Joins Sen. Grassley in Demanding Federal Entities, Telecommunications Companies Turn Over Records Provided to Jack Smith
October 10, 2025:
Chairmen Johnson, Grassley Lead Letter to DOJ and FBI Demanding Documents Detailing the Biden Administration’s Targeting of Sitting Members of Congress
May 5, 2025:
Sens. Johnson, Grassley Request Biden White House and NARA Records on Politically-Motivated Investigations into President Trump
April 9, 2025:
Sens. Johnson, Grassley Release Additional Arctic Frost Records Detailing Sweeping Anti-Trump Investigation
March 14, 2025:
Sens. Johnson, Grassley Release Records Showing FBI Obtained Trump, Pence Cell Phones, Conducted Sweeping Interviews to Advance Anti-Trump Arctic Frost Investigation
January 30, 2025:
Sens. Johnson, Grassley Make Public Whistleblower Records Revealing DOJ and FBI Plot to Pin Trump in Jack Smith Elector Case
###