yes, i am 50. do you think they knew the freedom writers at selma, the suffragists at seneca falls, the soldiers at shiloh? do you think they knew they were at the hinge of history? sensing whether they succeeded would determine the fate and survival of the country. raise your right hand if you believe our countries in trouble. and keep it up. raise your left hand if this is the most trouble you have ever seen our country in. that is why we are here tonight. and we are going to do something about it. we have seen cruel presidents before. we have seen incompetent presidents before, but we have never seen such cruelty and such incompetence in one person. donald trump calls you stupid, weak, failing. but you know what we have learned, mr. president? and those words do not describe us. they describe you. they describe you. and tonight on the eve of passing prop 50, and you have all made a decision to pass prop 50, i want to tell you what you are doing. you, me, we are writing america's come back story. and it starts tomorrow in california. so i want to thank julian and cheryl, the folsom area democratic club for again convening us and inviting me back. i also want to thank the folsom police department, who stand guard in our community every day and are doing that here tonight. shout out to some of our canvassers and and phil duffield. they knocked on 671 doors. so a lot of doors. katherine omorda knocked on 528 doors. also, the folsom area dems, they personalize 6,500 door hangers. i also just want to ask, is there anyone here who is volunteered in some way to help pass prop 50? give yourself a round of applause. i have a day job. i represent the 14 congressional district in the beautiful east bay. however, for the last year, i have been doing kevin kylie's job. but let me tell you about kevin come lately. because this guy, this guy is the greatest champion now for independent redistricting commissions. it is really amazing. it is like he is expert in the field. it is as if he wrote the proposition that passed it in 2010 himself. but what is so rich is that kevin come lately voted every single time against the john lewis voting rights act, which would have independent redistricting in every state, not just in california. it would get rid of dirty maps and dirty money. he voted against it every single time. and kevin come lately. when the president told governor abbott in texas he needed 5 seats, did not make a peep or a squeak. did not say anything. when the president went to indiana, missouri, florida, ohio, kevin did not say anything until his own seat was threatened. well, guess what, kevin? two little, two late, your seat is gone. it is gone. the people of folsom are going to get a member of congress who shows up, who cares, and is representative to the needs of this community. and i am not going to have to do your job anymore, kevin. and prop 50, by the way, i want to tell you why it is so important. yes, we match what was taken in texas. and for too long, democrats have stood on virtue and modesty and upon mount olympus. and we fight all of these battles with one hand tied behind our back. and as one constituent told me, for you guys, it is usually the upper hand. for too long, we have done that. prop 50 is not just drawing lines on a map. it is drawing a line in the sand. and we are saying, do not poke the bear. and they poke. and i cannot help you now, kevin kylie. i cannot help the other four republicans now. they poke the bear. and the bear, you, is roaring back. so what are the stakes? the stakes are everything. the stakes are everything. you see, donald trump and the republicans are not going to the midterm voters to make a case about the big brutal bill. they do not want to defend disappearing people in our community who go to the grocery store with their kids and do not come home. they do not want to defend the conflicts that they have added to the map that were supposed to end on day one. we are going to war with nigeria now? no, seriously. he saw a story on fox news, a couple nights ago. and this week, we are going to war with nigeria. but he should still get the nobel peace prize. he does not want to defend any of that. instead, his plan for the midterms is simple. just make the map harder for democrats. that is it. that is it. and so that is the stakes is to cheat to rig district, rig district. that is what we are doing. prop 50 goes to you to the voters. you will decide whether you want to match what texas does or whether we want to wake up the day after the midterms, still in the minority, but at least able to say we preserve the independent redistricting commission. i do not think any of us want to say that. no, do you want to say that? so what are the stakes? everything. i want to tell you the president said on day one he was going to go after the most violent immigrants in our community. i was okay with that. i was willing to cosplay with kristi nome and maybe put on a border patrol vest and go out and hunt for violent criminals. i would do that. that is not what they are doing. they are getting and going after american citizens, a six-year-old american citizen fighting cancer was deported. they are going through home depot parking lots, through vineyards, chasing people through car washes. i want to tell you in a democratic majority we are unmasking ice. in a democratic majority the mass come off. it is un-american and i will tell you is the son of a cop, is the son of a cop and a brother to two cops and a prosecutor who worked with some of the bravest cops. i have put a lot of bad guys away. i do not see any agency in law enforcement routinely running around through our communities on identified and wearing masks. they are scaring the hell out of women, they are scaring the hell out of their kids and they are not even getting the most violent that we were promised they would picked up. so accountability is coming. accountability is coming. that is the stakes. i am going to lower the costs on day one. remember that one? that doozy? it is day 300. he is 0 for 300. we are paying more for almost everything because of his idiotic tariff policy. we are paying more for everything. in a democratic majority we can reverse and stop the tariff. something republicans are unwilling to do. those are the stakes. what is the absentee file? we are in an epstein shutdown to your point. i am not kidding. we are in an epstein shutdown right now. the speaker of the house is acting as a pedophile protector. the most notorious sex trafficking individual ever to walk this earth is being protected. because if the speaker convened congress we would swear in the 218th vote to release the epstein files. the epstein files by the way to the maga movement and they were not wrong to want to know who was in it. they are just a little surprised i guess to find out how close the guy they voted for is to it. it is like flower to cake. it is a main ingredient for them and he is fully himself if he thinks and is the speaker mentioned that introduced me. i am related to a lot of these folks. it is my family. i was raised by republicans. married a who is your from southern indiana. when we are around republicans all the time you promise that you were going to tell them every person who is in the epstein files and now you are bearing it a mile beneath the earth and you think they are going to go for that? they are not going to go for that. you are not going to go for that. but the speaker of the house has congress shut down. the country shut down because he does not want anyone to know how close the president was to jeffrey epstein. so yes in a democratic majority we will do with the president actually promised we will release the epstein files. so those are some of the stakes but i also want to tell you about one of the greatest stakes. that is our health. that is our health. if you are fighting an illness or disease nothing else in your life or community matters. it is the most important thing you have to do is take care of yourself or loved one. this president failed to put in place subsidies that would help hard working americans and we are all seeing today the sticker shock of health insurance that costs 300 to 400 percent more and all he has concepts of a plan. we are back to that again. 40 billion dollars that went to argentina. 230 million dollars that he is paying himself in the first lawsuit he actually won because he is the plaintiff and the judge and 300 million dollars paid for by god knows who for a ballroom that we do not need but will come down the first day of a democratic administration. but the worst thing that he is doing a 40 percent cut to the national institute of health. before i came out here i spoke with an als patient and i asked if there is anything i could do to help her. i am privileged to know the best doctors and researchers in the world and i told her if i know the person you know the person tell me what i can do to help and she did not say get me into this trial get me this drug lower this cost she said just stop the cuts to the national institutes of health so people like me can have a fighting chance. it is time that we kill cancer and diseases like it not kill cancer and disease research and that is what he is doing. the last time i was with you i told you my own mother was in a cancer battle and she fought like hell for six years and she passed away two months ago and she is no longer on this earth but her spirit is in this fight it is in this fight and it does not matter whether you are a republican or a democrat and she was a republican we all agree that the most basic thing we can do with the resources we have is the greatest country in the world the greatest state in the world is to take those resources and seek cures not just cures for the billionaires kills for cures for every single person who is sick in our community and that is what this president is taking away from us the hope for a cure and that is what we are going to put back when we win the house it is a california comeback story we delivered seven seats in 2018 when we won the midterms the most seats any state delivered so we are going to pass prop 50 and we are going to add five more seats next november and when we lead again yes there will be accountability so if you made a dirty drug deal as a university president or a law firm managing partner or an entertainment company if you made some deal that you thought you would get away with with the president i have news for you your ass is going to be in a witness chair the judiciary committee and i hope it is plain and i hope you can answer for it and i hope the american people know everything that you did because accountability is coming it is coming you will be in that chair you will answer our questions and if you think democrats are weak or we do not have to spine we will not forget and folks it will all come out it will all come out so there will be accountability there will be a subpoena power but we will advance our values with the power of the purse and we will not be so weak as we have been in the past when we lead the agenda that nancy pelosi passed in the house in 2021 was a bold agenda that was defeated in the senate not by republicans but by weak democrats who let the filibuster get in the way we cannot be so weak when we have power again cannot be so weak so here's my message when people say what is the democratic message i know how hard you work i am the son of a cop the son of a mom who worked multiple jobs to raise four boys and all they believe was that if you work hard you do better for yourself and dream bigger for their kids i saw my parents and people like you bet on yourself every single day and so if you bet on yourself your country should bet on your job and it is wages going up your country should bet on your health care and cures for everyone who is sick your country should bet on your kids and for them to have the best education not just in our state not just in the country but in the world and if you bet on yourself our country should bet on your safety to send your kid to school and know they will come home at the end of the day because we have taken the most dangerous weapons away from the most dangerous people and if you bet on yourself you should be able to know your country bets on your democracy there'll be tournaments on the supreme court no more dirty maps no more dirty money and if you bet on yourself your country will bet on your rights and if you are a woman you can make your own decisions about your own body so if you bet on yourself also your country should bet on your future and your dreams that is what passing prof 50 means are you all in the past prof 50 if you are all in i am all in are you all in the past prof 50 if you are all in i am all in are you all in the past prof 50 if you are all in i am all in let us go past prof 50 thank you for some thank you for some