thank you mr. speaker. i rise today on behalf of the future form to provide an update on our past years work and activity and to discuss the work we must still do to move america's millennials forward. yesterday april 12th marked the one-year anniversary of future form and what a year it is been. i encourage everyone at home to follow along as we talk about these issues this afternoon at hashtag future form on twitter or instagram and facebook. send us your questions i will look at them live here on the floor and talk about them and continue the dialogue beyond today's conversation. our membership has grown from 14 members a year ago when we started to 18 of the house's youngest members. we have traveled to 14 cities now across this great nation from san diego, california to manchester, new hampshire and to most recently last week hosted by representatives to get, pull us and pearl mutter and denver. we are even joined there in denver by our house minority whip, steny hoyer. on each visit we talked to young people at universities, community colleges, co-working spaces, and startup companies to learn about the issues most important to them. the issues that they are finding as their own personal barriers to success. overwhelmingly we have heard millennials across the nation share that they are most concerned about issues relating to student loan debt, college affordability, climate change, and campaign finance reform. i want to talk about a few of these issues and first start with student loan debt. at many of these sites we ask people with a polling app, what issue is most important to you? and across the country the issue that we have seen most often, regardless of what part of the country we are in, what crowd we are in front of has been student loan debt. now this is an issue that is very personal to me. i just brought my own student loan debt just under $100,000 within the last few months. and i have seen in my own life in my constituents' lives in california's east bay, and what the people we have talked to with these future form discussions, that student loan debt has put an entire generation into financial quicksand. and it affects almost every life decision that young people are making. the biggest decisions you will make in your life. the decision to start a family. we are delaying that decision by about five years later than the generation before us. the ability to buy a house. we are perhaps the least home-owning generation america has ever known. the decision and the ability to go out on your own and start your own business. well actually, millennial entrepreneurship is on the decline. from 2014 to 2015, 5% fewer millennials started a business. how is that? you look at silicon valley, you look at silicon alley, you look at silicon beach, you look up in the northwest, it is silicon forest. you see all of these startups across our country and you think, well, this is the startup generation. in fact, we are more risk averse than you would think. it is because of the student loan debt that we carry and makes it so hard to go out on your own, to find that capital you need, to take that risk, to start a business, to create jobs that will help grow our economy. these are the four issues we are seeing that student loan debt is affecting. starting the family, buying a home, starting a business, and then finally being able to save. we are also the generation that has saved the least of any generation that has ever come before us. and it makes sense, right? every month you have approximately 40 million young people with 1.3 trillion dollars in student loan debt, hundreds of dollars each month going out the window, going to pay off this debt, making it very hard for you to rent near where you work, let alone even realize that american dream of home ownership. now while higher education also remains a worthwhile investment, we have found on our tour that by 2018, 63% of new jobs will require a college education. but here's the problem. the cost of college continues to go up. and one of our biggest challenges, perhaps, is making and having generations that have come before us understand that what they experienced 30, 40 years ago is just not what young people are going through today. it is apples and oranges in terms of experiences. in fact, the cost of college tuition has gone up higher and faster than any other good or service that americans consume. in california, for example, in the 60s and 70s, if you were qualified and you were able, you could go to a uc university of california school and walk away with essentially a debt-free education. the return on that investment, when californians and the federal government valued public education as a public good, was a workforce that built the greatest tech and biotech economy that the world has ever seen. the tech economy that drives northern california, the biotech economy that is striving down in san diego, the minds that are powering the inventive forces in the entertainment industry down in los angeles. that is the return on investment that we received when we treat the education as a public good in california. and you could have a uc degree and walk away with a debt-free education. now, an issue that is also important to millennials and new to future form and affecting young americans is the issue of diversity in the tech industry. we love the tech industry in california that has created so many new jobs and a lot of traffic to go with it, but people who are driving to good-paying jobs. silicon valley in the bay area is at the helm of america's burgeoning tech industry, which is constantly developing innovative ways to interact with in a global environment and compete in the 21st century. these cutting-edge companies are creating new ways to communicate, travel, buy, sell, and listen. but the tech industry is led by some of the best and the brightest our nation has to offer. but there are some statistics about the tech industry i want to share with you that are quite disturbing. the tech industry is not as diverse as california or our country is. millennials are at the center of this industry. they are the largest generation in the us workforce. by 2020, millennials will make up 50 percent of the global workforce. however, over the past two to three years, major concerns have been raised that tech lacks one major component. where the largest workforce america has ever known, where the largest and most diverse generation america has ever known, but the tech industry is missing a diverse workforce. despite making up significant portions of the us population, women and minorities are drastically underrepresented in this industry. let me give you an example. in the united states, women can pose 50.8 percent of our population. however, women only make up about one third of the tech workforce. ethnic diversity in tech tells a similar story. 8 percent of the tech workforce is hispanic. 7 percent is african american. 23 percent is asian and 60 percent white. how can we resolve this? how many tech firms have made great strides toward improving workforce gender in ethnic diversity by releasing workforce data and creating internal programs to address this disparity? however, action must continue to be taken every single day to address the root of the problem, like improving access to stem education. the tech industry also needs to seriously examine recruitment measures in order to encourage a more diverse workforce. i recently introduced the stem k2 career act. this bill would provide federal loan forgiveness for stem teachers and low-income schools. create a tax credit for paid stem internships and apprenticeships and ensure that 7 percent of federal work study funds are used for stem jobs. this would help make sure that every corner in america, every classroom across our country is treated equally and receives the same amount of funding for stem and makes sure that every child has that freedom to dream. i am also a co-sponsor of representative rick larson of washington's youth access to american jobs act, which will connect students to training and stem skill positions to prepare them for well-paying jobs. and just last month, i signed a letter urging for an increase in federal support of hispanic-serving institutions. someone in the house who has worked on this issue, who is my neighbor in the east bay and someone i have been proud to serve with, is congresswoman barbara lee. and i would like to welcome my distinguished colleague to add to this discussion and start congresswoman by asking, this is an industry that has expanded beyond just san francisco and silicon valley. we are seeing major investments put into oakland and also out in the tri-valley. and so what are you hearing back in the bay at home outside of that warriors fever? because tonight they are going to set the nba single season winds record. but outside of that fever, what are we hearing at home about the tech industry and what we can do better? thank you very much. first of all, let me thank you so much for your tremendous leadership in future form. i want to thank you also for, you know, really stepping up since you have been here in congress not only in showing dedication and phenomenal representation for your constituents, but also you have shown such a tremendous ability to organize your peers and to really focus on the issues that really give our young people, millenials, hope that they can actually achieve the american dream. so thank you very much. i am really proud to share our region with you, congresswoman smallwell. and i want to first congratulate you also because i think today is the anniversary of future form one year. that is right one year. and you are doing such critical work to make college affordable and debt free and to really provide opportunities for our young people and our middle-innies. so thank you. you know, we represent the east bay as i said and you said, and for years now this is nothing new to us. i mean, i have my office full of cases that go back actually 10 years of qualified people of color who wanted to work in the tech sector and never could get in the door. and let me also say that 40, 50 percent of the jobs in the tech sector are non-tech related. they are human resources attorneys, lawyers, jobs that many people qualify for, many people of color and still they have been shut out from these opportunities. so this is an important issue to talk about. tech is making a home for itself in my district and your district and creating new jobs. and unfortunately too many of my african-american and latino constituents have been locked out of these opportunities for years which have been created by the region's booming sector. and believe you me, it is not unique to your district or my district. it is a systemic problem that we need to address across the country. when major tech firms have released workforce data and mind you many have not. we have seen that as some firms employees that our african-american can make up as much as 7 percent of the workforce. at other firms this can be low, can be as below 0 percent. i do not know how you get below 0 percent but some do not even think about it. despite the fact that african-americans for example make up 14 percent of the american population. and so that is why i am really honored to serve with our congressional black caucus chair chairman butterfield as his co-chair of the cbc's diversity task force. in may of last year a task force launched the tech 2020 initiative to increase diversity and inclusion of the tech sector by 2020 specifically as it relates to african-american diversity. and let me just take a moment to thank reverend jesse jackson and rainbow push because they have been for several years now really making sure these companies commit to releasing their data and coming up with a plan to address inclusion and diversity. the core principles of tech 2020 initiative let me lay out very quickly. tee, transparency, education and training, corporate responsibility, investment, hiring and retention. now transparency means ensuring the company's set and achieve inclusion goals, release their data annually and put this information in the central location for the public to access. education and training, stem education commitment to long-term stem investments working with minority serving institutions, hispanic serving institutions, hbcus, advancing public and private investment in education. corporate responsibility and investment. that means working to increase board of directed diversity. when you look at the boards you do not see much inclusion at all in diversity. we have to target philanthropic investments, expand and venture capital to diverse ideas, to new young ideas, seek out and seek out excuse me diversity in the supplier area and help small businesses, young, millennial, small businesses grow. the last principle hiring and retention and means encouraging companies to provide specific programs and goals and timetables focused on inclusion and recruit from minority serving institutions and invest in african american and latino employees. the tech 2020 initiative we have taken these principles on the road to the boardrooms of some of the biggest names in the tech sector. we are continuing this conversation with the head of future forum because this really is about the future. in our district we have many, many young people, many young african american men, excuse me, men and women who are working on coding, black girls code. when you look at some of the investments that the k-poor institute mentioned free to k-poor have made in terms of investments and firms that require inclusion and stem education, it is really phenomenal. we have seen companies add highly qualified people of color business leaders to their board of directors not enough, only a couple, but we are going to continue to work to develop and implement and most importantly disclose their diversity and their inclusion plans. we have also made progress in gaining commitments to investments in science, technology, engineering and math and of course the stem pipeline to help educate and create the next generation of coders, inventors and tech leaders. so last year i was proud to lead a letter and it was co-signed by 67 of our colleagues to support the president's computer science for all initiative which will ensure that every student from preschool to grade 12 will be able to learn how to code. this initiative specifically focuses on girls and students of color and will help us close the achievement gap in stem education. these are all steps in the right direction but we can and we must do more. america has become more and more diverse, increasing diversity and inclusion and the tech sector. it really is not only a moral imperative, it is an economic imperative. as a former business owner myself i can tell you that diversity is really good for business, it is good for the bottom line. when you have a diverse and dynamic employee base, new doors of opportunity open and so i am very pleased to be helping to lead this effort with our chair of the black hawks and mr. butterfield and other colleagues in yourself to achieve parity in the tech sector. i also look forward to working with future forum in addressing these critical issues as we move forward with future forum in terms of the next generation of leaders. young people are concerned about student loan debt, college affordability, climate change, all the issues that really create a planet worthy of the future of our young people. so as future members of the modern workforce, they are also concerned about equity and so i have to commend you once again in future forum for your vision and your efforts to engage and empower our future leaders. i know that together we can and we will achieve a future where people of color, african-americans and latinos are fully represented within every level of the tech sector. from entry level coders and hr representatives, legal professionals, c-suite officers and corporate directors. and finally, let me just say one effort that some of the companies are mounting, which i think you know about, but which we need to talk a little bit more about in the future and future forums should look at it. the unconscious bias studies that these companies are undertaking, because oftentimes it is the culture of the organization and unconscious biases that translate into policies and programs that create discriminatory effect, which in fact need to be addressed in debt with. and they are so unconscious that people do not even realize that this is the ultimate outcome of those unconscious bias. do you think that shining a light on workforce data is probably one of the best ways to kind of reverse an unconscious bias that if, you know, unless you are forced to look at the numbers and the behaviors of your company, you are not going to make a change that results in having a diverse workforce. yeah, absolutely. if you do not have the facts, if you do not have the data, how do you know that first of all that there is an issue and a problem of exclusion? and secondly, oftentimes, you know, people, you know, higher people work with people who they are familiar with. there is some systemic issues that unless you have the data, you do not know what these systemic issues are. and so that is absolutely essential. and that is why we continue to ask tech companies to release their data and to really be transparent. and so you have to know what the issues are and what the problem is before you can look at how to rectify it and how to move forward. so i think that many employees and many corporate officials want to do the right thing. they just have not done the right thing. and they are trying to begin to understand what to do next. and so future forum, the congressional black caucus, our track caucus, all of us here, our democratic caucus have really been working hard to try to get this moving forward. and in your district, you have one of the best universities in the world, uc berkeley. and we have heard on our future forum tour from young students who are either right out of college or about to be out of college, that the amount of debt they have is driving the decision about where to work that a lot of times, their choices are limited to where their parents live because they know they cannot afford to live in the bay area. so they are going to have to boom or hang back home with their parents who have just gotten used to them being out of the house. and so what have you heard from the students or the recent graduates in your area about how student loan debt is affecting major life decisions? student loan debt really is hampering our young people from moving forward. they are concerned mainly about how to get a job that is going to pay enough money to pay down their debt. when really they should be looking at how to move forward to get the type of job they want, buy home if they want, have a family or do some of the things that their dreams have been in their minds and in their vision and in their heart for years. i mean now their dreams are deferred because they have to just hang on with their families and pay student loan debt. and secondly, in our area, the cost of the housing is outrageous. we met with the secretary of hud last week to try to determine what the federal government could do to help with first displacement and secondly to help develop more affordable housing, which of course will help young people because they cannot afford to live now in the east bay or in the bay area. really, our region is just excessively expensive and we have got to figure out how young people can stay where they want to stay and how they can have the type of life they deserve. they have gotten a degree. i went to uc berkeley. that is my alma mater, go bears. and i know what a phenomenal education it is. but i also know when you get out, you think that that degree, that piece of paper is going to give you is a ticket to something better. and here you end up having to go back home, live with your parents and pay down your student debt. that is outrageous. it does not make any sense. our young people deserve more. that is right. and a lot of times i have told young people, our generation is the least homony generation america's ever known. in the bay area, or the la area, they say forget homony. we just want to be able to rent near where we live. and right now, the rents are so expensive. oakland now ranks in the top five most expensive rents in the country. it is outrageous. home ownership is not even a dream anymore that young people have. and how do you acquire wealth in this country? when you look at what happened with african americans, for example, in latinos during the subprime meltdown in crisis, our net worth is gone. most of that was an equity in our home. young people deserve to be able to buy house so they can begin to acquire some wealth so they can do what they want to do with their lives. and until we get this house in peace, we are not going to get anything else right in terms of any quality and equity for our young people or for people of color. that is right. and you know, as we talk to young people, and we listen to these stories across the country, it is heartening though to offer solutions. and i know you are a part of many of the solutions that the future forum has been promoting. one of them is the bank on students emergency loan refinancing bill. and this is joe courtney's bill, our colleague, who says that if the banks can refinance at the lowest rate, if a homeowner can refinance at the lowest rate, an auto loan can be refinance at the lowest rate. why can our students refinance at the lowest rate? why should they have to pay so much money and interest and not get more competitive rates? and there is no reason why. because here you have young people starting out, making a life for themselves, they should be able to do the same thing. the banking institution should allow young people the same opportunities as they do other people who own mortgages and who own cars. and this to me is it is discriminatory. i am really pleased to be a co-sponsor of the bill. and i hope we can pass this on a bipartisan basis. i would give people a little bit of hope, young people just a bit of hope that it can be done and that they can be made hold and that their college education, their sacrifices that they made, it was worth it because now they are going to the next step. that is right. in the bay area, young people are so collaborative and inventive that they have powered this innovative innovation economy. and then they look at washington and they wonder, well, why is not the majority party in the house collaborating on these student loan bills? if you look at every student loan bill that is out there right now, i think nine out of ten of them have been offered by our side. and this is an issue that should not be owned by a political party. people are hurting out there. republican young people are hurting also. so i would think that the majority party would want to help their young people also find a path to the american dream and certainly refinancing their student loan debt is a major step. this should be bipartisan, it should be non-partisan, and we should be working together to get this pass. i do not know if you have any constituents who are in bankruptcy because of student loan debt, but we have found that three things in this country will follow you to your grave and have no statute of limitations. murder, treason, and student loan debt. so we have constituents who have had their social security garnished because of outstanding student loan debt, and people who cannot discharge as they get that second chance in life that jubilee, that bankruptcy is, they cannot discharge their student loan debt. it hangs over them until they go to the grave. yeah, many constituents are in this very similar circumstances, congressman swahwell, and on top of that, their credit score goes down. and so then they cannot even buy a car even if they wanted to. they are not able to do anything else because they are delayed on their payments. they are behind because they cannot afford it. then they get dinged on their credit score. then they cannot buy anything else on credit. and so it is a vicious cycle. they end up in debt and out there not being able to participate in the mainstream economic fabric of our society because of that. that is right. and another bill we have to support that is the private student loan bankruptcy fairness act offered by congressman cohen of tennessee who seeks to address this issue and relieve young people from having to have this follow them for a lifetime. well, congressman, i am glad you came and joined us to talk about diversity and tech and about larger future form goals. and i look forward to continuing to work with you in the east bay and across our country to take as many young people as we can out of financial quicksand. thank you. and thank you for your leadership. and i am confident we can with your leadership and with all of us working together. i know that both democrats and republicans want the same thing. i am confident of that, but we are just not matching our rhetoric with with reality. so hopefully they will begin to understand the majority will that this is good for america, not just for democrats and not just for our young people. that is right. thank you, congressman. i will be now i also see in the house with us this afternoon is another california colleague, someone who i was hoping maybe could talk a little bit about what students and her part of california are going through. one of the youngest members of the house as well. that is congresswoman norma torres. so congressman, we are just talking about student loan debt. and we have got in california the greatest education system in the world. but because of the amount of student loan debt young people are facing, it is just putting them as i said in financial quicksand. and we have got a lot of solutions here in the house. but anything you are hearing in your congressional district from young people and what they want to see from their leaders. absolutely. and thank you so much for bringing this topic to the board. and we are celebrating a year of the future forum tonight. one year that is wonderful. not this issue is not limited to the students. i at a congress in your corner last november, i heard from parents of a constituent who were nearly in bankruptcy. student loan debt and the parents are taking on costly assisted living. so you are right. so thank you for sharing what is going on in your area. and maybe my other colleague, another one of california's millennial-minded members down in the la area, tony cardinus. tony, what are you hearing as we celebrate a year of being on the road with future forum and talking to thousands of young people? what are you hearing about student loan debt or any issues that are important to millennials? what i am hearing, unfortunately. and once again, thank you so much for bringing this issue to the floor. it is incredibly important not just for millennials, but as our colleague norma torres pointed out for people who are in the retirement age, people who want to retire, but cannot because they have these generational issues that are costly and they cannot move on and then follow through with their version of the american dream in different phases of their life. what i am hearing is that this is not just an issue of young people who are in college. this is an issue of entire families wondering whether or not their children can afford to do that and whether the family can come together for that bright individual who wants to succeed and wants to get that education and yet they are doubting themselves as to whether or not that is the path for them. and that is unfortunate because the fact of the matter is the united states of america for many, many generations has been the place for hope and expectation of a brighter future for generations yet at the same time because in my opinion, congress is not doing enough to make sure that we can write this situation. we can make sure that you can write size the environment of making sure that when a young bright person in america wants to get an education that there are ways in which they can afford to do that regardless of where they come from, regardless of whether their parents were farm workers like my parents or whether their parents live on the other side of town where they can afford to do that. our environments and the universities should not be left only to the individuals who have the affluency to be able to be in that environment. one of the reasons why we have created these wonderful universities that have five and ten and twenty-thirty thousand people there is so they can be in a clectic environment. so people can learn to become friends with people that otherwise they might not have rubbed elbows with. so what i am hearing is that people are afraid, too many americans are afraid, i am hearing that too many young bright individuals are doubting whether or not they can afford to get that degree, not that they cannot do it, not that they are not bright enough. the problem is that what i am hearing from my constituents and people around america is that it is tough to make that decision because too many young people now have examples that they are in debt, 100,000, 200,000, 300,000 dollars and then on top of that they cannot find a right-sized job to fit their skill set and then on top of that they have got this mounting debt and that is something that too many people are afraid to enter into. that is unfortunate. should not happen in our country. i am glad that you are bringing this issue up. let us continue to try to do many, many things about writing this ship that we have about our young people being too afraid to incur the kind of debt that they are forced to do in order to get an education. amen. well said. and i think young californians in my experience, they want us to be as collaborative and solving this problem as they are and charting the innovation economy because you are right. and out of those environments in our uc and cal state systems and our community colleges, we are creating minds and experiences that are building this new economy. and so they look to us and say, why are not democrats and republicans working together? and right now i see our caucus is the only one that is offering solutions. and i think we are putting our hands out. they are saying, work with us. we are ready to talk about this, but you got to come to the table because republican and democratic kids across this country are in financial quicksand and our county on that. so thank you, tony, thank you, norma. and so that will conclude our one-year celebration of future form. we are certainly not looking backwards. we are looking to the future. we have more visits ahead across the country, across california, of course, with my colleagues who have participated already. and thank you and continue this conversation with us at hashtag future forum or, of course, follow along at atrepswabel at twitter, snapchat and facebook. but this generation is aspirational and optimistic. it just needs its leaders here in this house. and the majority party, i think, to join with the democrats to put forward solutions that can move our generation forward. and with that, mr. speaker, i yield back. the gentleman yields back.