it is happening to our girls, it is happening to our women, and i am here to let everyone know that this is happening. open your mouth. i am so happy. whoa! the democrat crowd is cheering her on. bare enough, fair enough. never in a million years that i think i would see that. ladies and gentlemen, our friendly neighborhood feng feng banger is running for governor of california. eric swalwell, my best friend. look at us together, man. i am so happy to be there. so congressman swallow is now on the campaign trail, and he had a rally. and we are going to have more people like this video in the first five minutes of me uploading it than he had at his rally. it is a ghost town, and the crowd is very predictable. it is like 90% old liberal women. nothing wrong with being old, but liberal? ugh. anyways, the chinese by-lover gave the crowd the mic. and when i say fireworks, i mean fireworks commenced. first man, you guys think the most emotionally- when you question him, i am going to start with you. i was a prosecutor. i was a prosecutor for seven years. and where justice was warranted, and where it was warranted, i showed it. no, he means to say he let the criminals go free and locked up innocent people. and where a stiff punishment was warranted, because somebody i heard, i saw. and i will not be a governor that tolerates violence against women in our state. period. that is right, man. that is right. now, as it relates to the issue of trans kids, particularly sports. in women's faces, harassing, and you said it was not a thing. 14 times you said it was not a thing. so i need you to show all the women of california that you are going to protect us. women. are there going to be men allowed in the women's room anymore? no, no, no, woman should be harassed in a locker room. and the strength. are there going to be women? are you against men in women's locker rooms and sports? that is all you need to answer. please. i know. that is not happening. it is happening all around america. there are 25 men in the women's prisons right now. they are picking them out like chicken. yeah, the trans. a lot of women. and they are raping women. so i do not care if you are on the democrat side, the republican side. oh, tish hyman. she is going in on this guy. god bless her soul. if you are on the women's side, people, it is happening to our girls. it is happening to our run. and i am here to let everyone know that this is happening. open your mouth. i am sorry. i am sorry. it is happening. whoa. the democrat crowd is cheering her on. baron af. fair enough. never in a million years that i think i would see that. there are things that people behind black people who they use in our civil rights to push this. if you want to be the governor, you need to do something about it. because i promise you this, i will not be the last to see of tish hyman. thank you so much. all right. i want to hear that. you are right. somebody. oh, he capitulated. he said, all right, find the melanin. power is getting to me. there are no trans kids. there are no trans kids. there are just children. stop transforming children. no one can make a decision that young. but i would try, i would transform. it is wrong. it is wrong. it is abuse. do not trans children. it is abuse. chance kids. it is no such thing. there is only men and women. use your brain. stop with this. malakis. i also want to know, as governor, i am not going to be the striker of the most important issue. wow. give her a presidential medal of freedom. look at that standoff, ladies and gentlemen. tish hyman, you are a hero putting this man in his place like fengfang did. he looks absolutely clueless. he is never had to deal with this before. the media has shielded these democrats from accountability. but tish hyman has hold them to that fire. this is not the first time we have heard of tish hyman. if you recall, she was the woman who made the video at gold's gym where she got kicked out after reporting a man in the woman's bathroom to the staff. and instead of kicking him out, they kicked her out. so that whole thing went viral. then she confronted democrat state senator scott weiner. sorry. i am so mature. scott weiner about the same thing she just confronted swahla long. you guys are not protecting one of these things with a chance. it is not right. thank you very much. you are welcome. thank you. am i in the fish? i am in the fish. you heard me, sister? all right. do not let them use our blackness and our civil rights as a reason of past weird laws for children to transform. tish hyman is quickly becoming the democrats' worst nightmare in the state of california. the way she approaches them is so good. because she showers them with compliments like, hey, i know you are trying. and then she rips them apart on national tv. last time i did the video about her, which i had to remove from youtube because of a copyright thing. i said that i wanted her to wake up from thinking democrats were at all in this for the right reason. she was very complimentary of scott weiner. again, i do respect a lot of the things you have done. but i do see a lot of these bills that you have passed that are dangerous for women and young children. and i understand that you are trying to be on a level playing a field. and i am here representing my community because i hear a lot of things about my community and these bills. and i am telling you as a woman, first and foremost, that this is dangerous. and we need your help. because you are in the office, you are going to go into the community spot. i want to support you. i have millions of people behind me. and she had that same kind of energy towards swallow. i said she should look carefully into these democrats and she will realize they do not care about her at all. and they do not do any good. but now i am realizing there is something genius about it. she comes across as likable and open-minded. and there is no real rebuttal to that. she is able to be loud but still get the crowd on her side while stating brutal truth. and for a lot of these democrats, they have not ever heard these words before, especially from a black woman. men are not women. they have never heard that. this knowledge is a shock to them. fangfang's banger is already having a hard time in the gubernatorial race in california. katie porter already has tremendous momentum. and california's voting system is so messed up. they do these jungle primaries. so there is like 10 people on the initial primary and the top two go to the runoff. and i can imagine a republican will get through. and katie porter. and there is like 10 other democrats that are going to be sharring their votes. there is even a chance that republicans take the top two spots in california. would have a red governor. swallow is so low on those polls right now. it is crazy. these interactions certainly do not help them. and we all look forward to him losing. he is really doing us all a favor and taking himself out of congress and politics altogether. because if he is not able to become governor of california, he certainly will not be able to win a senate race against the incumbent. and it would look embarrassing for him to run for congress again. oh, tish, if you want to lesbian and you were 18 years and one day old, i would get on my knees and give you that ring. this is amazing energy. if every mom in this country acted like tish, hyman, and protecting their children from the objectionable material democrats want to shove down their eyeballs, would not we just have a blessed country? would not there be like no perversion? would not kids grow up like i did watching sophia i, instead of trans drag shows? huge credit to tish hyman. she is a complete hero. thank you all for watching. i hope you enjoyed that as much as i did. god bless and goodbye.