oh oh quite o i am a knight. i stood in front of my supporters and talked about the opportunity for me to win my race. 11 years ago, after being in conor's rally in short run, i had a handsome young man. he come to my office in the middle of the turf. he was at the university of maryland and soccer players. he was working two jobs because we draw him. his high office loved him. mr. jones came in and he gave tours to love him. at the time, he told me that he really had found his time. he wanted to be in public service and he wanted to work for the people of california. he went on to law school, he went home to california. ran in dublin to become a member of the town council. went to the alameda county crossfit youth office and decided to run for conor's. we are at the crossbow of the star. we are waiting for a lot of returns to come in, but i will tell you right now, i feel like i did 16 years ago. i feel like i did 16 years ago. but the people of california are waiting for me to go out and get their car. and when i look at this young man now, living years later, i think tonight's bell. are not we lucky that people still want to be in public service? yeah. there is nothing like working for the people in california, there is nothing like working for the people in the east bay, and many of my former constituents are now in california 15, and they are going to have a phenomenal representative when the vote is finally finally counted. i want to introduce you to the member of the, first and i think we will be the member of congress, when the 90s over. and that is the person you have worked for, the person that you have put into congress, eric swallow. thank you. thank you, ellen. it was 11 years ago where i worked as an intern and had the honor and pleasure of serving in washington dc for you, and congresswoman towscher took a chance on me when i had just lost a soccer scholarship, and my folks told me, son, they are going to go to washington dc as an unpaid intern. you are going to have to make it work. and what i did was as congresswoman towscher referred to you in the morning, i worked at a restaurant just down, i worked at a gym just down the hill from capitol hill, and i served jim tows to members of congress in the morning, and would check them in, and then i would put on my suit and run up the capitol hill. and then the evening after i served as an intern, i worked at a restaurant in capitol hill, and i would oftentimes serve dinner to members of congress. and here we are, 11 years later, after serving in jim tows in the morning, and serving in meals in the evening, very close to an opportunity to serve with them in the halls of congress. thank you. i have to thank my family who are here tonight. my mom, vicki, my dad, eric, my little brother's jacob and chase, and public service is something i saw as a little kid growing up. my father was a police officer, and served locally on the dublin school board, and the model to me had really admired his service to our community, and inspired me to reach toward public service once i finished law school. and you came back home to my community here, but i also wanted to acknowledge some folks here that many of you have known tonight, and a reporter asked me earlier, so there is a lot of people here, and i said, yeah, these are not people who just showed up for a party. these are the best and in this campaign for over a year. i want to thank our campaign team, jordan, for serving as our scheduler, and dean wallace, who served as our campaign team. i want to thank josh schubert, and our poor o'fellow. i want to thank someone who has become like a big sister to me, you all know shannon boer. i want to thank our consultant, lisa tucker, who did that stage of song. and finally, 11 years ago, when i served with congresswoman coucher's office, i worked with another intern named melinda daley, who was the part right here. and melinda married c.j. daley. you were going to be making this decision, and i called c.j. with the crazy idea of running for congress, c.j. said absolutely not and run up the phone on me. you cannot. you cannot call back. he said, i think we can make this work. he is been on board for the very beginning. i want to thank you. but more than anything, i want to thank you, because when we had this idea that this district deserves new representation, that it deserves new energy, and a member of congress, who is going to show up to work hard every day in these tough changing times, many people disfounded us and told us we were crazy. we did not have a chance. and they told us, how are you going to find a million dollars to run for congress? how are you going to find the endorsements from everyone in your party that you are going to need? and guess what? we never found a million dollars. we never found all of the endorsements from the party. but what i found was you. and you believed in me. and together we found voters who wanted to change in congress. we found voters who wanted to go back to the days when ellen towsher served in congress, and it was not a bad word for reach across the aisle and work with the other party. voters here. voters are sick and hired at congressional agreement. and they want a member to go back there and work with anyone who is ready to work with them. that is what i hope to do. the results again. it is still early. they look very good for us, but they are a testament to the hard work that we put in day in, day out for the last year. if you look at the fun facts up here, there is no secret to how we got to this point. 65,000 doors we knocked on. 25,000 people at home. that is how we did it. we picked up the phone. we went doorstep to doorstep, main street to main street. we told them we wanted the job. we thought we could do it better. and so far right now it looks like they are rewarding us, the rewarding you for putting your faith in me. so i want to thank you all again. thank you for being here and never, ever doubt that they grew up people. united by a common goal to work together to bring change to make all the difference in the world. thank you.