[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 12 (Tuesday, January 23, 2024)]
[Senate]
[Page S209]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
BIDEN ADMINISTRATION
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, this past Saturday marked 3 years of the
Biden administration. After 3 full years under President Biden, the
question naturally arises, Is America better off? Are Americans better
off? For a whole lot of Americans, the answer is no.
In a December poll, 55 percent of voters said they are worse off
under President Biden. In a January poll, 46 percent of voters said
their personal financial situation is getting worse compared to just 28
percent who said it is improving.
A recent ABC News article noted:
In a dispiriting sign of the times, barely more than a
quarter of Americans say the American dream still holds true.
It is no wonder because perhaps the biggest legacy of the President's
first 3 years in office is a massive inflation crisis that has still--
still--not gone away.
Inflation may have descended from the stratospheric heights it
reached earlier in the President's term, but we are still stuck with an
inflation rate well above the Federal Reserve's target rate of 2
percent. And inflation actually ticked up again in December by a not
insignificant margin. The practical effect has been that a whole lot of
Americans have seen their breathing room disappear under President
Biden.
According to a recent analysis from the members of the Joint Economic
Committee here in Congress, a typical household has to spend over
$11,000 more each year to maintain the same standard of living it had
at the beginning of the Biden administration--$11,000 more each year.
That is a staggering amount of money. It is money that a lot of
families don't have.
So it is not surprising that 55 percent of voters say they are worse
off under President Biden. It turns out that when you are spending 20
percent more on groceries, 18 percent more on shelter, 35 percent more
on gasoline, and 25 percent more on electricity--and on and on--over
the course of just 3 years, you don't feel very prosperous. And I
haven't even mentioned how difficult it has gotten for many Americans
to achieve the dream of homeownership, thanks in part to rate hikes
that the Federal Reserve has had to implement to deal with President
Biden's inflation crisis.
Suffice it to say that the inflation crisis President Biden helped
create with his so-called American Rescue Plan has resulted in economic
misery for a lot of Americans.
The President will unquestionably be remembered for his massive
inflation crisis, but he will also be remembered for presiding over a
border crisis of staggering proportions, a crisis that, like the
inflation crisis, he had a large hand in creating.
From the day he took office, when he rescinded the declaration of a
national emergency at our southern border, President Biden made it
clear that border security was at the bottom of his priority list. And
over the 3 years since, he has turned our southern border into a magnet
for illegal migration, from repealing border policies of his
predecessor to misusing our asylum and parole systems, which are now
providing temporary amnesty to hundreds of thousands of individuals who
are here in our country illegally.
We have had 3 recordbreaking years of illegal immigration at our
southern border on President Biden's watch. Fiscal year 2021 saw a
recordbreaking 1,734,686 migrant encounters at our southern border.
Then fiscal year 2022 broke that record. Then fiscal year 2023 broke
that record. And if fiscal year 2024 continues on its current
trajectory, we will end up breaking the record yet again. December
reportedly saw a staggering 302,000 migrant encounters at our southern
border, the highest monthly number ever recorded.
To borrow an analogy from our colleague from Pennsylvania, that is
like having the entire city of Pittsburgh show up at our southern
border in just 1 month. And that doesn't count the ``got-aways.''
Of course, the overwhelming numbers we are seeing make it easier for
dangerous individuals to make their way into our country.
Between October and November alone, 30 individuals on the Terrorist
Watch List were apprehended attempting to cross our southern border; in
other words, roughly 1 every other day. Those are just, again, the
individuals who were actually apprehended.
Since October 1, there have been more than 83,000 known ``got-
aways.'' Those are individuals the Border Patrol saw but were unable to
apprehend. How many of them were criminals, terrorists, or other
dangerous individuals?
The truth of the matter is, we just don't know. But what we do know
is that the crisis at our southern border is leaving a gaping hole in
our national security, one that the President has spent a majority of
the past 3 years essentially ignoring.
His border crisis and his inflation crisis might be the two most
notable features of the President's first 3 years in office, but the
President is also leaving some other troubling legacies.
His hostility to conventional energy production and his devotion to
Green New Deal policies have put us on a dangerous trajectory when it
comes to our Nation's energy security. We are already seeing weaknesses
in our electric grid, and the President's energy policies are putting
us at risk of significant disruptions to our supply.
On the trade front, the President's almost complete lack of action on
meaningful trade agreements has meant declining market access for
American farmers and ranchers and threatens America's competitiveness
in the global market.
The weakness the President has frequently demonstrated on the
national security front, from his disastrous withdrawal from
Afghanistan to his attempt to revive President Obama's dangerous
nuclear deal with Iran, has compromised America's ability to deter
hostile actors on the world stage.
I could go on, but I will end it here. Suffice it to say that it has
been a rough 3 years for our country under President Biden, and it is
not over yet.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Padilla). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHMITT. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
____________________