Press Releases
McConnell Delivers Senate Floor Speech on Louisville UPS Plane Crash
November
5
,
2025
WASHINGTON, D.C.
–
U.S. Senator Mitch McConnell (R-KY) delivered the following
remarks today on the Senate floor regarding yesterday’s UPS cargo plane crash in his hometown of Louisville, Kentucky:
“I know that many of our colleagues will have seen the tragic news out of my hometown yesterday. And I’m grateful that their thoughts and prayers this morning are with the people of Louisville. Folks around Jefferson County need those prayers right now, and in the days and weeks to come.
“The death toll from last evening’s UPS cargo crash has risen throughout the day. For the families of these victims, and for the injured survivors being treated at area hospitals, life will never be the same.
“There’s a lot of grief welling up right now in Kentucky. This would be true even in the case of a single life lost. But as local first responders, state officials, and federal investigators continue their work today, I’d like to help our colleagues understand what makes this tragedy such a gut punch in a place like Louisville.
“During the day, Louisville International hums with thousands of passengers from across the country. But around the clock, Louisville is also a hub for global shipping and logistics. Business supplies, consumer goods, Christmas gifts… if it’s going somewhere in short order, there’s a good chance it’s passing through UPS Worldport in Louisville. None of this is possible without teams of devoted professionals.
“Louisville is home to logistics experts, warehouse workers, aircraft crew and maintainers. They take pride in their work, and their community takes pride in them. That’s why this crash cuts so deep. It’s about all of us. Today, Jefferson County schools and many local businesses are closed. Neighbors are mourning neighbors.
“So today will be a tough day in the Commonwealth. But the people of Louisville are grateful for the swift, life-saving efforts of our first responders from local police, fire, and EMS. They can trust in the prayers of their fellow Americans. And I want them to know that their representatives here in Washington are making sure that every federal resource they need is on the ground or headed that way soon.
“I spoke with Mayor Craig Greenberg this morning, and my team and I will continue to stay in close contact with local, state, and federal officials, including at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), in the coming days. But first and foremost, I’m keeping my fellow Kentuckians in my prayers, and I’d ask our colleagues to do the same.”
Permalink:
https://www.mcconnell.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/2025/11/mcconnell-delivers-senate-floor-speech-on-louisville-ups-plane-crash
Press Releases
Audio Statements
Video Statements
Newsletters
Photo Galleries