thank you so much for showing up. it is so important for us to make sure that we continue to recognize and to make sure america is paying attention to what happened three years ago. and what happened three years ago, something that honestly i never would have imagined. but now we live in the time when things that we thought were impossible have become reality. and we have to recognize what is at stake at this time. now that is why i am here. i am here because i showed up to work on january 6th three years ago. i showed up to do my constitutional duty. and i remember being there on my way to the capitol when we got in the work, telling us to go shelter in place, go find cover. and i am somebody as mengy. i worked in afghanistan, i spent time in iraq, but never could i ever have imagined that i would have to take cover at the united states capitol. and not only that, we are not only just taking cover, but taking cover because we had americans fighting other americans in the united states capitol that day. it was just such a surreal experience to be there. and i remember having to put my ear up against the door, the wooden door. as i am hearing footsteps going by, trying to figure out, you know, is that someone who is trying to protect me and help me or is that someone who might try to harm me? it is a situation that that even had to cross people's minds at the capitol on that day. and i just remember after the riot was quelled, we gathered back in. you know, we said, you know, we are going to have to stay here as long as possible. we cannot be deterred from doing what we needed to do that day, which is to certify the election. so we decided we would stay there. and we gathered back up in the capitol, we gathered back up in the house of representatives chained. now, walk through the center doors, the same doors that the president walks through to give the state of union address. and i am literally stepping over broken glass through the center doors because you might remember we had guns drawn on the floor of the united states capitol on the floor of the house of representatives. and i remember we gathered back up. and my colleagues started to give speeches about what had just happened. they started to talk about how is the darkest day in their career. and i was actually kevin mccarthy who said that, which he soon forgot. and we gathered a thing through that at that moment. there was a brief moment where i was thinking, hey, if ever something could come out from such a horrible day, maybe that this would be something that finally breaks the fever of this country. maybe this is something. i said, maybe this would be that defibrillator that finally gets our country back and did some type of rhythm, something that just shows us how far off we have gone off course as a nation. but just a few minutes later, my colleagues literally just pulled the same speech out of their pockets and they were going to give regardless what happened that day. they just gave that same speech talking about how the election was going. how the results need to be overturned. and it just i could not express you how much my blood boiled at that moment. that even what we had just witnessed at the attack on our capital on the sacred ground of our democracy, that was not enough to get my colleagues to recognize and be able to confront the truth of what happened and to be able to finally step down from their horrible lies that they are spreading. so i just left the chamber. i walked out of the chamber. i was so frustrated. i walked into the united states of rotunda. i do not know how many of you have been there in the capital, been in the rotunda, but the rotunda is such a beautiful space at the center of our democracy. and to see that they defiled and disgraced, to see the garbage and the debris, i just could not take it anymore. so i decided to start cleaning up and at least to my part to be on the try to restore that building to the beautiful state that it should be always in. i always felt that the capital building is the physical manifestation of our constitution, the physical manifestation of the article one of our constitution. so to the file and disgrace that building is to the file and disgrace our constitution. here i clean up and as mentioned, the photographs went around. i had a lot of people come to me and they started saying this phrase to me. then i thought, i took the heart. they started saying, you know, when i saw that photo of you cleaning the capital, they said, i felt like that line from mr. rogers of look for the helpers. and there was something that i took the heart. you know, i am a mr. rogers kid. i grew up watching it. and you know, it was something that i took the heart. look for the helpers. in these times of crisis, there are the helpers there. and when i went home a couple of days later, i went and saw my kids for the first time since january 6th. and my home was on, came up to me and he said, are you okay? and i said, yes. and he said, did something bad happen at work? and i had the really tough moment of trying to think about how do i explain to a five-year-old child? how do i explain to a five-year-old child what had just happened? and i decided to try to lean on that phrase. look for the helpers. i talked to my kids about how they were the helpers, the capital police that helped keep me and other safe. officers eugene goodman, someone who famously helped scott and divert a mob away from getting to the united states home. majority, the law and officer's sickness who gave his life to be able to protect us. i told my kids about the helpers i came from all over the country, the national guard, the others i came to be able to protect our cap. and i reassured my children that i would be safe there and that our capital building would be safe. and i thought that that would be enough. but when i returned to the capital and continued to see the challenges that we faced, continued to see how the lies and the big lie and all of that just continued to manifest in our country, it became clear to me that that is not enough. yes, absolutely for our kids, look for the helpers. but for us adults, that is not enough. we have to think through this moment where yes, we look to the helpers, but why are we in a situation where we have so many people in this country that do not want to do help, they want to do harm. people who are willing to literally attack and assault other americans, continue to try to push for their lives. that i serve with people in congress that are clearly not thinking about what is best for the country, they are thinking about what is best for them, what is best for their party, what is best to be able to hold on to power. that is what this is about. so when i think about this, i think about what whole are we to play. what is it that brought you out here today? i am so proud of you, i am so glad that i can stay alongside you today. because today we are doing the right thing, we are showing that what happened three years ago, that that was not just a fluke, that is not just something that we could just move on from. we have to make sure that we recognize that the same challenges and threats that they stuff three years ago, they remain. and we cannot give, let down our guard, we have to remain vigilant. and when we see that there are still people who are seeking to do harm to our democracy, we have to recognize it is not just good enough for us adults to look for the helpers, we have to be the helpers. we have to be the people that step up and say each and every day, not just on the anniversary of january 6th, but every day we will commit to protecting our democracy. i will do everything i humanly can to be able to protect this country, to protect this democracy, but i cannot do it alone. i need each of you to just continue to think about it. yes, you are here today, you are doing your part, but what are you going to do tomorrow? what are you going to do next week? what are you going to do next month? what are you going to do next year? all of us have to remain vigilant to make sure we stand up against this threat. our democracy is fragile and it is something that can crumble before we know it. this is the challenge of our generation. the challenge that we face at this point to make sure that we will always be there together saying that we will do what we can to protect this democracy today and every day. thank you everyone.