you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you christmas mister oops the hall niez right? welcome to the 13th inaugural ceremony for the prince george's county executive and the prince george's county council members. and it is indeed an honor for me to service your mistress of ceremonies for this celebratory occasion. in accordance with the prince george's county government charter on the first monday and the month of december during an election year, newly and re-elected leadership are to be administered the oath of office for the office of the county executive and members of the county council to be witnessed by and for the people of prince george's county. and this is indeed a significant and historic occasion for all in attendance. it is the first time in the county's history a woman has been elected to serve as prince george's county executive and for the first time since 1982, the county council now expanded to 11 members, includes two at large members. this is indeed the beginning of promise, growth and further prosperity for the people of prince george's county maryland. for they cast their vote of confidence in each of these individuals based on unique and personal reasons, with the understanding that each of these public servants will collectively represent the voice of all prince george's as one county, one team. today, prince george's county is adding a new chapter to its history book. and without further ado, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honor of welcoming and introducing prince george's county council members elect and the prince george's county executive elect who will be sworn in today. your standing, stay standing to receive them as i call their names. now i ask you please, and this is a hard request to hold your applause until i finish reading all of the names. representing the legislative branch of prince george's county government, prince george's county council members elect, mel franklin at large joined by his wife, monika franklin. ahold the applause, you are not listening. demarage to this side of the road. i was a former teacher. calvin s. hawkins, the second at large joined by his wife angie reese hawkins. thomas denurga, denurga, district one joined by his wife, lenora denurga. danny l. tobaris joined by her guest, christina toledo. danielle glarros, district three joined by her daughter, lillian glarros. todd m. turner, district four joined by his wife anita turner. joeline ivy, district five joined by her husband, glenn ivy. derek l. davis, district six joined by his wife, sherry m. davis. rodney c. streeter, district seven joined by his wife, lisa streeter. monika anderson walker, district eight joined by her father, dr. ronald lee anderson, and sydney j. harrison, district nine joined by his son, jarelle harrison. representing the executive branch of prince george's county government, prince george's county executive elect, angela also brooks, who is joined by her daughter, alexandra. now you may applaud. and now that everyone has graced the stage and been formally introduced, we shall officially begin the 2018 inaugural swearing in ceremony. you may all be seated. as a program note, i would like to acknowledge our sign language interpreter who is facing the audience. we also have spanish and french interpreters as well as closed captioning. let us thank them for their participation and services today. at this time, i would like to welcome to the podium, pastor john k. jenkins sr., pastor of first baptist church of glen arden, to deliver the invocation. let us pray. you turn to god our father, the somebody that we bow our heads and come before you this hour, this morning, for this great and grand occasion. it is our desire to pray, you are blessing upon the ceremony and upon these leaders, as they lead this community and this county. it is our prayer, heavenly father, that you would surround them with your wisdom and your grace. we pray, father, that as we pause for this day and this moment and they are inaugurated into their assignments, that they will be reminded god of your love for this community. it is our prayer, the name of the lord, that your name will be glorified. and i pray, heavenly father, in the name of he who has been raised from the day who died for all of our sins, i ask this in jesus name. amen. pastor jenkins, thank you very much for that uplifting prayer. now please stand for the presentations of the colors. pastor jenkins, thank you very much. pastor jenkins, thank you very much. we want to thank our public safety color guards representing the police, fire ems, sheriff and corrections departments for their joint presentation of colors. kindly remain standing for the national anthem performed by soloists, visalichio williams. we by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight, or the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming, and the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. oh say does that star-spangled banner yet wave, or the land of the free and the home of the brave, the brave. god bless that beautiful voice. thank you very very much. beautiful. next christian moran, a student and member of the student leadership team at rosa l. park elementary school in hyatt'sville, the lead us in the pledge of allegiance. christian. our pledge of allegiance of the united states of america and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under god, indivisible, we liberty and justice for all. thank you. good job christian, thank you. and we will now hear a total selection from the legendary oxon hill school choir. please be seated. show me how to love you. no, it is not that easy to live life down on my knees. one, one, there is more to see than with my eyes. but see sometimes can leave me paralyzed. i realized. it is my soul. the end of music against me. every time this hope it seems to die. and the voice is all around me, baby, that life. everything i sing now, please let go. you make it away. my soul is well. it is well. with my soul. with my soul. it is well. it is well. with my soul. it is well. it is well. with my soul. with my soul. it is well. it is well. with my soul. with my soul. with my soul. with my soul. my soul despite a minute it is not a flash can fall the weapons that i need i am with your love lord do not you want my love make a you make it away my soul what a stirring beautiful way to kick off today's inauguration ceremony at this time i would like to acknowledge special guests elected officials and those who have come from across the region to bear witness to today's installation ceremony. we are grateful for their presence here this morning as i call your name please stand and be recognized starting with senator ben cardin senator chris van holland congressman stenny hoyer congressman anthony brown lieutenant governor boyd ruffer come troller peter francho mayor muriel bowser mayor catherine q prince george's county saints attorney ayesha brave boy prince george's county sheriff melvin high and registrar of will sarita lee thank you for being here with us. we would also like to acknowledge the members of the judiciary present and to acknowledge former county executive paris glenn glenn denning we would like to recognize the chair of the prince george's county state delegation senator jim rosapep and members of the maryland state senate we would also like to acknowledge the chair of the prince george's county house delegation delegate michael jackson and members of the maryland house delegation and we would like to acknowledge all the former members of the prince george's county council here with us this morning and to acknowledge all the mayors and council members of the municipalities prince george's county and members of the democratic senate committee and members of the prince george's county school board your presence and support are greatly appreciated, especially given your very busy schedules i would also like to acknowledge the fantastic job the oxen hill high school jrotc cadets are doing today they have been helping with today's ceremony by assisting and directing you to your seats and i am also pleased to acknowledge our departing county council members and sincerely thank these dedicated public servants for their visionary leadership ingenuity and constituent services mary layman district one andrea c. harrison district five karen r. tolls district seven and obey patterson district at this time, i would like to welcome the honorable mahasim elamin newly elected clerk of the circuit court to the podium to administer the oath to the council members elect first to the podium to be sworn in mel franklin prince george's county council member at large and family members please join us and laws of prince george's county of prince george's county and that i will and that i will to the best of my skill to the best of my skill and judgment and judgment diligently diligent and faithfully and faith without partiality without partial or prejudice or execute the office of execute the office of county council member at large county council member at low for prince george's county for prince george's county according to the constitution according to the constitution and laws and laws of this state of this state and the charter and the charter and laws and laws of prince george's county congratulations. thank you so much. thank you thank you so much please join us on stage calvin s. hawkins the second prince george's county council member at large and your family okay i do solemnly swear do solemnly affirm to that i will support that i will support the constitution of the united states i will support the constitution of the united states and that i will that i will be faithful be faithful and bear true allegiance and their true allegiance to the state of maryland to the state of maryland and support and support the constitution the constitution and laws their and that i will that i will support the charter support the charter and laws and laws of prince george's county of prince george's county and that i will that i will the best of my skill to the best of my skill and judgment judgment and judgment diligently and faithfully diligently and faithfully without partiality or prejudice without partiality or prejudice execute the office of execute the office of county council member at large county council member at large for french georgia's county for prince george's county according to the constitution according to the constitution and laws and laws of this state of this state and the charter and the charter and laws and laws of french georgia's county. prince george's county. congratulations. thank you. his mom is in tears of proud mother. congratulations to all of you. now to take the oath of office thomas e. dernoga district one and his family members. okay. okay. okay. i, tom dernoga, do solemnly swear that i will support the constitution of the united states and that i will be faithful and virtue allegiance to the state of maryland and support the constitution and laws and laws thereof and that i will support the charter and laws of french georgia's county. and that i will and that i will to the best of my skill and judgment diligently and faithfully without partiality or prejudice without partiality or prejudice execute the office of county council member district one. so when i am in the state of maryland, i will support the state of maryland and i will support the state of maryland and i will be faithful and virtue allegiance to the constitution and law of this state and the charter and law of french georgia's county. congratulations. thank you. we had one of the council members go bang and i want to acknowledge that bang. please give up for county executive until a few minutes later. we are sure baker the third. thank you. your service well appreciated and acknowledged. next up for the op-office, denny el-teveris and her family from district two. i am just way up kind of family. okay. i am going to say hi to the state. okay. i am going to say hi to the state. hi. i am going to say hi to the state. i am going to say hi to the state. i am going to say hi to the state of maryland and i will support the constitution and law of this state. i will support the charter and laws and laws of french georgia's county and that i will to the best of my skill and judgment and judgment diligently and faithfully without partiality or prejudice. execute the office of county council member district two. for french georgia's county. according to the constitution and laws of this state and the charter and laws of french georgia's county. congratulations. thank you. next from district three, denny el-em-gleros and her family. thank you. do you want to swear? left hand on the bible. you see your name and you beat after me. hi. hi. the law of this state and the state of maryland. we are here to say that i will support the constitution and the united states and that i will be faithful and true allegiance and to the state of maryland and support the constitution and laws thereof, and law is fair of. the charter and law and laws of prince george's county of prince george's county and that i will and that i will to the best of my skill to the best of my skill and judgment and judgment diligently and faithfully diligently and faithfully without partiality or prejudice without partiality or prejudice execute the office of execute the office of county council member district 3 county council member district 3 for french george's county. for prince george's county. according to the constitution. according to the constitution. and law. and laws of this state. of this state. and the charter. and the charter. and law. and laws of prince george's county. of prince george's county. congratulations. thank you. next to take the oath of office from district four todd m turner and family. it is gonna smile. all right. good luck.dies. hi. hi, todd m turner. do solemnly affirm. do solemnly affirm that i will support. that i will support. the constitution of the united states. the constitution of the united states. and that i will be faithful and bear true religions and bear true religions to the state of maryland, to the state of maryland and support the constitution and support the constitution and laws thereof and laws thereof. and that i will support and i will support the charter the charter and law and law of french georgia's county of prince george's county and that i will and i will the best of my skill to the best of my skill and judgment and judgment diligently and faithfully diligently and faithfully without partiality or prejudice without partiality or prejudice execute the office of execute the office of county council member district 4 county council member district 4 for for french george's county, according to the constitution and laws of this state and laws of this state and the charter and laws of french george's county and laws of french george's county. congratulations. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. next to be sworn in, jolyn ivey representing district 5 and her family. thank you. do you have to swear at my phone? i can. i have a few seconds. okay. i will say i teach you. and repeat after me. i, i, jolyn ivey do solemnly affirm, do solemnly affirm that i will support, that i will support, the constitution of the united states, the constitution of the united states, and that i will, and that i will be faithful, be faithful, and bear true allegiance, and bear true allegiance to the state of maryland, to the state of maryland, and support the constitution and support the constitution and laws their own, and that i will support the charter and laws of french george's county, and that i will, to the best of my skill, and judgment, and judgment, without partiality or prejudice, execute the office of county council member district 5, county council member councilmember district 5 for prince george's county for prince george's county. according to the constitution, according to the constitution and law of this state and the charter and the charter and laws and press-storges county. and laws of prince george's county. congratulations. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. this is for you. we will take a minute. thank you. thank you. congratulations. next to be sworn in, derek l. davis representing district 6 and family. thank you. thanks. thank you. thank you. thank you. excuse me. excuse me. excuse me and susan. excuse me. okay. i swear. i swear. but now you will raise your right hand to say, i received it... after me? you did it, okay. hi. hi, derek leon davis. do solemnly swear. do solemnly swear. that i will support the constitution. that i will support the constitution. of the united states. of the united states? and that i will. and that i will be faithful. to be faithful. and bear true allegiance. and bear true allegiance. the state of maryland and support the constitution and laws there and laws there and that i will support the charter the charter and laws of prince george's county of prince george's county and that i will and that i will to the best of my skill to the best of my skill and judgment and judgment diligently and faithfully diligently and faithfully without partiality or prejudice without partiality or prejudice execute the office of execute the office up county council member district 6 county council member district 6 for prince george's county for prince george's county according to the constitution according to the constitution and law and law of this state of this state and the charter and the charter and law and laws of prince george's georgia's country. congratulations! you know, they are not official until they sign what is inside that envelope. so we have got to make sure they all receive the envelope. this, the oath will be administered to rodney c. streeter from district 7. welcome him and his family. okay. lieutenant bible, raise it right here when i say i, state your name and repeat after me. okay. i. i, rodney c. streeter. do solemnly affirm. do solemnly affirm that i will support. that i will support. i will support the constitution of the united states and that i will be faithful and bear true allegiance and bear true allegiance to the state of maryland and support the constitution and support the constitution and laws thereof and that i will support the charter and laws and laws of prince george's county and that i will and that i will support the lentils who would speak for us. faithfully without partiality or prejudice without partiality or prejudice. execute the office of. execute the office of. county council member district 7. county council member district 7. for prince george's county. for prince george's county. according to the constitution. according to the constitution. and laws. and laws of this state. of this state. and the charter. and laws. and laws. of prince george's county. of prince george's county. congratulation. thank you. next to take the oath. monique anderson walker representing district eight with her family. 박수. i, i, monique anderson walker, do solemnly affirm, do solemnly affirm that i will, that i will support the constitution, support the constitution of the united states, of the united states, and that i will, and that i will be faithful, be faithful, and bear true allegiance, and bear true allegiance to the state of maryland, and support, and support the constitution, and laws thereof and laws thereof, and that i will and that i will, support the charter, support the charter, and laws and laws of french dabetha, of french dabetha, and that i will and that i will, to the best of my skill, to the best of my skill, and judgment, and judgment, allegedly and faithfully, without partiality or prejudice, without partiality or prejudice. execute the office of, execute the office of. county council member district 8. county council member district 8. court of franches george's county. for prince george's county. according to the constitution. according to the constitution. and laws and laws. of this state, of this state. and the charter, and the charter. and laws and laws of french storges county. of prince george's county. congratulations. you a harrison and family. i i sydney j. harrison do solemnly swear you solemnly swear that i will support that i will support the constitution of the united states and that i will be faithful and they are true allegiance to the state of maryland and support the constitution and laws and laws and laws there are and that i will support the charter and laws and laws of french georgia's county of french georgia's county and that i will and that i will to the best of my school to the best of my school and georgia's county. i will the office of categories of county councilmember district 9 county councilmember district 9 for up fuji states and the charter and know abay partisan french george county. congratulations. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. four hours later. i am sorry. i am sorry. i am sorry. councilmember harrison, excited to get started at work. please congratulate all the newly confirmed sworn in council members and their families around of a cause for all of them. a big job ahead. great. great. great. great. great. great. great. great. great. great. great. thank you. good morning. what a beautiful day here in prince serges county. thank you all for joining us here today. let me start by congratulating my county council colleague. the psalmist said it so well. this is the day that the lord has made. let us rejoice and be glad in it. i am truly amazed by the tremendous favor god has bestowed upon our beloved county and as council chair, i am deeply humbled to stand before you on behalf of our new county council. being chosen to lead and serve this great county is a signal honor and we are all very proud and excited to celebrate our progress, this inaugural ceremony and our next four years together. to our wonderful citizens, elected leadership past, family members, honor guests, neighbors and friends, thank you so much for being here today. your presence and support on this joyful day means the world to all of us. none of us could do this job well without the love and support of our families and we want them to know we are forever grateful. our patients and understanding allows us as elected officials to focus on a life of public service. if i may take a moment of personal privilege, i want to thank my parents, my husband steve, our children lillian and evan who motivate me to be better every single day and are always available for hugs after a long one. our thanks also to the inaugural 2018 planning committee for this outstanding event. you have worked long and hard. you have worked long and hard during this leadership transition to make today a success. your tireless efforts are very, very much appreciated. we are also deeply grateful to our departing council colleagues who have served their second and final terms under term limits. the honorable andrea c. harrison. mary laman. obey patterson. and karen r. tolls. as well as our alcoining county executive, richard elbaker iii. together we worked over the last eight years to further the transformation of prince george's county into an economic powerhouse in our region, breaking ground on major new projects across this county, including a new hospital, and celebrating a multitude of grand openings. our collective leadership has given rise to a much stronger, safer and more robust prince george's county. the legacy of our predecessors and countless other public servants has laid the foundation we are blessed to build upon today. their invaluable contributions and commitment to this county we all call home is a beacon for all who are elected leaders in this great and awesome county. the 2018 election saw a historic number of women and people of color run for and win elected offices. and very shortly on this stage we will bear witness to our own historical first in prince george's county as county executive elect. and also, it will become the first woman to hold the seat of office. the council congratulates our county executive elect for successfully shattering the glass ceiling that others have been chiseling for such a long time. together in leadership we will propel our county forward to deliver the very best for all of our residents. this is truly a moment of profound change in county government, a moment which gives us the opportunity to take a deeper look at how we govern, how we empower and engage our residents and how we deliver for our communities. with a new and expanded council, we have a fresh and energetic team of lawmakers united by a positive vision for the county and her people and focus on the critical issues facing our county. we are eager as council members to make a difference in the lives of prince georgeians through our leadership and service. together we are bound to the unfolding story of prince george's county. having taken this oath and uphold the county charter, this council is committed to placing the best interests of our county first. our success, our success as a county will be measured by our ability to consider all viewpoints and balance all perspectives for doing a relationship that serves our county well. as these are shava said, we cannot seek achievement for ourselves and forget about progress and prosperity for our community. our ambitions must be broad enough to include the aspirations and needs of others for their sakes and for our own. four of us are returning to council to serve our second terms. myself and council vice chair todd turner, council member derek leon davis and council member denny tveris. most of our expanded 11 member local legislature however, our new faces on the council or familiar faces now in new places. we welcome council members tom dernogga, jolene ivy, monique anderson walker and sydney harrison as well as our two new voter approved at large members, council members mel franklin and calvin s hawkins the second. as the baton is passed and we run the next leg of our legislative agenda, this council will continue to build on legacy initiatives that transcend transition, housing opportunities for all, transformative economic development. we have created zoning regulations, a world class education for our young people, access to quality health care, refuge for those in need, regional cooperation and a balanced budget that speaks to our shared priorities. during the term this new council, we will see major projects move forward to completion and new places grow over the next four years. the new hospital, university of maryland, capital region health, anchoring downtown, print shortages at larger town center, will open its doors and transform healthcare delivery in our county and our local economy. sutland, sutland will be at the center of a renaissance anchor by development that was envisioned over 20 years ago when the honorable wayne kay curry led our county and we will take our first rides on the new 16 mile purple line light rail. working together we will build a print shortages county where lives and communities are transformed and economic progress is achieved. print shortages county is a competitive force across our region and our nation and the energy of this new 11 member county council and our new county executive in stores the best is yet to come. this new council looks forward to working with every stakeholder, civic leaders, religious leaders, businesses, nonprofits and neighborhood groups to identify the most effective ways to extend our partnership for the greatest mutual benefit of all. we also understand that for print shortages county to succeed our citizens must be confident that their voices are heard and that we are making the best decisions for the good of our residents and our communities. over the next four years as part of our mission we will employ initiatives to address the concerns of print shortages enhance our quality of life and yes together strengthen our communities. working together for an even better print shortages county will mean growing communities that we are anchored to strive to care for, feel proud of, celebrating a county where children and their families can live the filled lives and pursue their dreams and creating a place that our young people seniors and veterans can continue to call home. the tabestry that is print shortages county is full of astonishing beauty with riches that stretch from acochie to laurel and everywhere in between. our rural areas are beautiful treasures, our metro stations are just beginning to emerge with activity and there is abundance and opportunity waiting to be discovered and cultivated across this county from all our outstanding assets including the state university, print shortages community college, the university of maryland college park and joint base andreuse. our tabestry is also woven with a diversity that is hard to find in any other county in this region and the core of our strength, the core of our strength that we as us together is made up the people of this vibrant county. it is all of you, it is us. our creativity, passion and fearlessness sets us apart. we are living in critical times in our nation, fragmented by acts of hate and violence, a lack of civility and too often divided by racism, discrimination and intolerance. and georgians know there is no hope in the embrace of deep divisions. the same diversity we treacher as our strength in print shortages county, some inexplicably see as a threat. in our community we know it is our collective experiences and perspectives, share through many lenses that allow us to seek clearly and continue to progress. our immigrant community, from india, the philippines and syria, from cameroon, nigeria and liberia, from the dominican republic and jamaica to el salvador and mexico and from all nations in between are an integral part of the fabric of america and of print shortages county. no matter where you come from, no matter your native language, your race or your ethnicity, where you were born or when you arrived here, this is your county. and we welcome your immeasurable contributions to our collective community story. the quran leads us well on this point. and of his signs is the creation of the heaven and the earth and the diversity of your languages and your colors. indeed, in that are signs for those of knowledge. representing our community means making sure everyone has a fair, shot at opportunity and shares in the prosperity we are building here in this county. but changing impact, it is not by accident. it is vision. it is determination and it is courage that changes lives and creates generational change. prosperity enables critical investments in our communities and we must continue to ensure we advance equity and reduce disparity so that all print georgians move forward with the county's progress. every church, tarell and african-american activist champion, we must lift as we climb. there is no challenge before us that we cannot solve when we act as the community and make use of all of our talents. there cannot be any hidden figures if we are to capture the abundance and opportunity that is print shortages. imagine what can happen if we harness all of our talents for the veteran service of all. imagine what this county can be as we unite, magnify and create more possibilities with each moment that we act as one county. successfully shaping our county story and meeting our challenges from this day forward involves all of us. improving our quality of life and continuing to embrace and expand the progress in print shortages will take all of us. only together can the gifts of print shortages county be shared unwrapped by all. only together can we strengthen our community, our county, our families and realize our fullest potential. only together as one county can our tabstry, our story and our county shine bright with grateful hearts, the members of this council, humbly thank print shortage for your trust and confidence and for the privilege to serve. lifted by the momentum of this day, you can count on the energy, commitment and collective abilities of this council to work for you. may god bless you and god bless print shortages county. we thank council chair glero for that inspiring message on behalf of the entire council. now to bring us a prayer of inspiration, imam talib m. sharif of the nation's lask of washington dc will join us on stage. bismillahirrahmanirrahim. bismillahirrahmanirrahim. and that it was with almighty god's name, the merciful been in fact to the merciful redeemer. let us pray. almighty god, the merciful, the wise, the most high possessor of greatness, the giver of all that is good as your bounty exceeds our ability to measure and your blessings exceed our ability to count. we humbly besiege your divine providence upon this historic inauguration, upon this county and its council, with leaders determined to make significant advancements in bettering the circumstances affecting the present and future of this county. investing in the people, helping the least and as we are seeing with this body, for any time you invest in the people, you help lift them up to the point where they discover the best in themselves, their potential, their own worth, and self-equentely become not only a healthy power for resource to themselves but also to this great county. grant this body clear vision and legislative acumen as they navigate the waters of our county issues. grant them insight, wisdom and logic and bless them to follow the logic to its logical conclusion. grant them the quality of excellence in planning both short and long term that focuses on the right thing, the right way at the right time, with always the right disposition of always wanting the best for the space that we inevitably share with others and bless them to have always the right perception of our county. at first of all, this county is a gift from you and under you all, my god, we are responsible for how we treat everything. and as we heard in our pledge, one nation under god, indivisible with liberty and justice for all, in acknowledging you all, my god, who created us all and cares about us all equally. bless this leadership, bless this council to continue to be mindful and reflective of e-ploribus owner. out of many one, one nation, one humanity, one county, one common origin, dating back to adam, and we are all children of adam and from him, as we see represented in this county, the many wonderful, beautiful, diverse expressions of human life that have contributed to the beauty and strength of this county and to america. and may we find inspiration in our declaration that many are here supporting this national point, which declares, we hold these truths to be self-evident that all, no matter their status, ethnicity, sex, race or religion, are created, not accidents, created, equal, justice, recognize and sameness for all. and in doubt by their creator, recognizing you all, my god, the creator, with certain and alibi rights that cannot be taken away from them, and alibi rights. among these, life, the right to live, all life is sacred, liberty, the right to be free to progress and their pursuit of happiness. we thank you all, my god, for blessing us with a constitution that does not base itself upon the identity or classification of a race, religion or nationality. rather, it bases itself upon the life needs and aspirations of the universal person, the common type that is in every one of us the same with no difference. and lastly, all my god, you made all of us one human type. there are no two types of human. we all born, all babies of born human first. we have human organs and body parts that can be shared regardless of sex, race, ethnicity. likewise there are no two types of human souls. our souls, our common souls, they are not black, they are not white, they are not yellow, etc. but colorless, our souls that are not ethnic or not national but human. maybe one for our brothers sister, what we want for ourselves, maybe we build each other up and not tear each other down, maybe not shun each other. we want another, or maybe one another. rather, maybe we be brothers and sisters, we want another. and understand that it takes two sides to build a bridge. may our work of building reach both sides in the spirit of universal kinship and bringing communities and accounting together upon the inherent goodness of their human soul and the common value shared by so many and those members of this council and leadership. amen. thank you, imam. the time has come. it is now my honor to introduce angela also brooks, prince george's county executive elect. she is a proud and lifelong prince george who was raised in camp springs, maryland and now resides in upper marborough with her beautiful daughter, alex. angela began her rapid career path which spans over two decades as a public servant and leader in prince george's county government over 20 years ago. notably, her career is thematic and has indeed come full circle. beginning in 1997 as a prince george's county assistant states attorney. five years later, in 2002, she was appointed by the county executive to serve as education liaison. subsequently, in 2003, she was appointed as the executive director of the county revenue authority. in 2010, she took a leap of faith and launched her career as an elected official by overcoming a 2% name recognition against a field of candidates who had all run for public office previously and guess what? you got it. angela, by an overwhelming margin, was elected to serve as the county state's attorney, becoming the youngest and first woman to be elected to the office in prince george's county. a hallmark of angela's approach as state's attorney was to engage the community to prevent further crime. also brooks and her office have been a major factor in the record crime reduction of the county that is seen over the last four years and the 50% reduction in violent crime over the last seven years. in november 2018, angela was once again overwhelmingly elected as the eighth county executive for prince george's county as well as the first woman to hold that position. through her unifying and inclusive leadership style, angela will ensure that everyone has a seat at the table and voice in decisions that impact their lives. i would like to invite now the honourable sheila tillerson adams, administrative judge of the prince george's county circuit court and the seventh judicial court to the podium. she will now administer the oath of office to county executive elect angela also brooks. and again, the time has finally arrived. county executive, take your place. i, angela also broke, do solemnly swear, do solemnly swear that i will support the constitution of the united states, that i will support the constitution of the united states and that i will be faithful and that i will be faithful and their true allegiance and their true allegiance to the state of maryland and support the constitution and laws thereof. and support the constitution and laws thereof. and that i will support the charter and that i will support the charter and laws of prince george's county and laws of prince george's county and that i will and that i will to the best of my skill and judgment to the best of my skill and judgment diligently and faithfully, diligently and faithfully without partiality or prejudice, without partiality or prejudice. execute the office of county executive for prince george's county maryland. execute the office of county executive for prince george's county maryland. supporting to the constitution and laws of this state, according to the constitution and laws of this state and the charter and laws of prince george's county and the charter and laws of prince george's county. thank you. o tastes and see that the lord is good. blessed is the man that trusted in him. i have to begin this morning by saying thank you so much to god for the opportunity to stand before you today. it is only by god's grace and mercy that we are able to do all things. i would also like to thank my mother patricia and my father james for being the biggest supporters of me and my sister and for pushing us to always be our best selves. i would also like to thank my daughter alexandra the amazing for all of her love and support and patience. she has willingly shared me with all of you all since she was just five years old. there were mornings i had to leave twerly, nights i got home too late to tuck her in and weekends where she spent the afternoon with me listening to victims of crime or concerned citizens about issues that she was too young to even understand. this election cycle my alex showed maturity beyond belief. even in all of its difficulty as her peers and sadly sometimes as adults and things to her there were unkind during my campaign. like a true champion she kept her head up brought on straight a's and in her own words smoked a few competitors on that track. i would also like to thank my secret weapon the best big sister anyone could ever ask for. kimberly also brooks see more. my sister is a fierce lady and she is fought for me my entire life. while kim was a student at virginia tech i was also a student at duke university and a young woman that i knew had gone into my dorm room while i was gone took out an outfit and guess what later that night i saw her at a party wearing my clothes. well during a phone conversation made the mistake of mentioning that to kim and apparently i did not get the clothes back quickly enough because before i knew it kim had rented one of those itty bitty economy cars from budget rental. she drove from blacksburg to durham showed up on my doorstep and said where is the girl with the clothes. not only has kim been my treasure for each of my campaigns but she has been my very best friend. thank you so much kim. i also want to thank all of my extended family and all of my friends who have traveled from near and far to be here with me today. they have come from new york to texas from bermuda to switzerland and i am just so honored and grateful that you have taken the time and made the effort to be here with me today. as i stand here today as your new county executive. i want to thank county executive rashurn baker for all that you have accomplished over the last eight years. we were in a much different place during his first inauguration but he has led us with dignity and character and he has been a great friend and rashurn i would like to say thank you from the very bottom of my heart. thank you. i would also like to thank all of our outgoing county council members for the work that you have done over the last eight years. you have played a major role in our successes. i want to thank you so much for the friendship that you have extended to me and state's attorney and wish you well in all of your future endeavors. i would also like to acknowledge my friends and colleagues who are on the stage with me our new county council. and i would like to congratulate each of you and let you know that i am ready to get to work and i know that you are too. and while we acknowledge that there is still much work to be done, i want to let all of you in on an open secret. and that is that prince george's county is the crown jewel of maryland. now that may not have been a surprise to many of us in this room but right now i am here with all of you to make sure that the state, the region, the country and the world know who we are and what we are. because prince george's county is not on the brink. prince george's county is not around the corner. prince george's county is not all most there. ladies and gentlemen, prince george's county has arrived. but today we stepped out of the shadows and claim our past, our present and our future. today we begin fulfilling the promise of prince george's county together. i think prince george's have been laboring so hard and so single-mindedly over these past several years that we have not realized just how successful we have become. we have achieved record crime reductions with a 40% reduction in violent crime over the last eight years and 50% overall reduction in crime. this is the lowest crime rate we have recorded in at least five decades. prince george's we have never been safer than we are today. we are building a new $600 million state-of-the-art capital region medical center that will be the hub of our expanded primary and preventive care health options for our citizens. we fought hard and secured legislation that will contribute to the funding we need to provide a quality education for our children. as a result of our laser focus over the last eight years, we are finally beginning to turn the tables and the fight against domestic violence, providing more resources than ever before, helping to reduce the stigma of reporting and encouraging more faith-based and community engagement on this issue. and i want you to know how proud i am that we have achieved a 20% reduction in domestic homicides this year. this is amazing. it has not been easy, but it is been a true partnership between the government, faith community and citizens and it proves the power of our collective strength. and after many years, others now know what we have known all along. prince george's county is a great place to invest. we now have billions of dollars worth of investment, economic development projects coming down the pipeline. we are the economic engine of this state and this truly is the place to be. prince george's county is looking the mirror. we are a success. at the 2016 democratic national convention, senator cory booker said, hours is an even greater nation, not because we started perfect, but because every generation has successfully labored to make us a more perfect union. and it is high time to properly acknowledge those who did the laboring to make our county more perfect. like gladys' new spellman, it is time to acknowledge the work of floyd wilson, deborah marshall, carlton sickles and dorothy bailey. let us acknowledge royal heart, joanne bell and my good friend howard stone. let us pay our respect to all of the other servants that came before us, that labored before us to make prince george's county perfect and to fulfill our promise. my parents are a part of that generation that labored. and if you will indulge me, i would like to tell you a quick story about my dad, macalsyn brooks. when i was a kid, i used to love to ride along with my dad as he worked his midnight shift loading and unloading his delivery truck as a distributor for the washington post. my sister and i would be so excited to go to work with my dad for his one and two am shift that we would often sleep in our clothes overnight. here was my dad who i have to tell you, he is never been a stout man. with these 25 pound and 55 pound stacks of newspaper on each shoulder, climbing in and out of a truck all night long, ink and dust covering his skin and his hair. one night my dad said to my sister and i, you know what, i jump up and down on this dirty truck so you will never have to. my dad did that back breaking work because he wanted to make sure that we had the opportunity to go to college without worrying about how to pay for it. while i was in college, my dad's contract was not renewed and so he lost that job. it had a devastating financial impact on our family but he never complained and he was never deterred. he went and got a job at pohanka motor cars and sold cars to pay our tuition. and he was salesman of the year every single year. thank you dad for jumping up and down on that truck and walking up and down that car lot so that kim and i could realize our dreams. to my mom patricia, thank you for the example that you said for making me proud to be a woman, a servant and a fighter. you labor for decades as a receptionist and a phenomenal mother, making sure that kim and i understood the importance of a good education and that we understood that there is dignity in all work. we found out that my mother had breast cancer nine years ago and despite undergoing chemotherapy, she made sure she never missed a beat at work. she walked six blocks each way and the july sun with a wig on from the parking lot to her office occasionally sitting on the school steps to catch her breath. i was so upset about this and i said, you know, let me call please to your office to see if we can get you closer parking accommodations and she said to me, no, you know what, i am so grateful to have a job with insurance benefits so that i can get the treatment that i need. and she went on to say, you know, angie, there is a reason that god wants me to make that walk and so i will make it. thank you, mom. my parents, like so many of our families, sacrificed and labored to allow their children to realize their dreams and hopes and to build the prince george's county that we all enjoy, but they are not alone. thank you to some of my favorite people and you all know who you are, our seniors from all across prince george's county who have supported me and even lined dance with me and sacrificed and labored to make prince george's county even greater than it is ever been. to the veterans of prince george's county who comprised the largest population of veterans in the state of maryland. thank you for fighting for the freedoms that we enjoyed because of the sacrifices that you have made. the labors of all of our citizens from every walk of life, every race, creed, color, religion, and socioeconomic background from eagle harbor to soutland, from seat pleasant to laurel have made prince george's county into the crown jewel of maryland. my promise to them and to you and to the next generation is that we will preserve that inheritance, grow it and hand it off to the next generation. prince george's county, it is time for us to labor. growing up in prince george's, i did not always appreciate the rich history that our four parents established and i certainly did not learn that prince george's modern history dates back four centuries. it was in 1609 that british captain john smith, the chesapeake bay's first explorer, wrote the following about prince george's. heaven and earth never agreed better to frame a place for man's habitation, a fruitful and the lightsome land. this land which would become one of the original 13 colonies fueled an agricultural economy and a way of life that would one day lead to our nation's liberty. prince george's land was so abundant and fruitful in fact that in 1791 we seeded a portion of it to form the district of columbia and about that same time and for many decades prior the ancestors of many of us in this room were enslaved field hands. in fact slaves represented more than half the population of the county but even in those dark and oppressive times the spirit of prince george's prevailed. our county was a key waste station on the underground railroad in 1862 we won emancipation and set out to labor and to create for ourselves a county that would embrace humanity and dignity in all of its glorious colors. in 1941 john green established the columbia air center, the first black owned air point in the county on a field near crune. in 1959 just a year after being established nasa opened its first flight center right here in greenbelt maryland. we are home to the state's flagship public university, the university of maryland college park and the state's oldest historically black college, buys state university. and we are proud to have helped raise prince george's like kevin durant, congressman stinney hoyer, former county executive wayne curry and actress tarraji p. henson. now maybe i did not appreciate that history and that legacy because like so many of us we focused on the negative. we focused on how others perceived us and that affected us. we lost our connection with our past, with our promise and with the gift that we had been given. we lost our sense of pride. we did not talk about where we would been, how we would struggle to get there and where we were going. we did not talk about how our ancestors broke free of bondage and came to thrive. we did not talk about the greatness of prince george's or our institutions. instead we talked about where we were, how we were almost there, that our destiny was just around the corner that we were on the brink, somewhere along the way. we lost track of who we are, how valuable we are, how capable we are, how strong we are. but i am so proud to declare today that we do not need to compare ourselves to anyone. we are a model for others to follow. and every day of the week we loaned this region our workforce, our intellect and our labor. we are a strong part of the economic engine that drives our region. and for those who may not know, prince george's county is in the top 3% wealthiest counties in the united states of america. we are the driving force in maryland. the mayor bowser, i love you like a sister. and i am grateful for your friendship and proud of your vision and your leadership and proud of your devotion to all eight wards. we are sisters raised here to be recklessly proud of our hometown. so i know you will not mind me saying it, but prince george's write this down. we are not ward 9. prince george's is time that we stand up with our back straight with our chest out in our heads held high. stand up and be proud of who we are and where we have been. we can stand no matter what adversity we have faced. because when we stand on the shoulders of greatness, we will be amazed by the sights we will see in the heights we will reach. and we will see how far and how high we can go together. in that same speech of the democratic national convention, cory booker said, senator cory booker said, our respect and value, the ideals of rugged individualism and self-reliance. but rugged individualism did not defeat the british. it did not get us to the moon, build our nation's highways, or map the human genome. we did that together. the only way that prince george's county is going to fulfill its promise is if we do it together. the high calling of public service will require us to focus on the needs of people, all people, and to resist the temptation to act out of rugged individualism and the desire for political game or personal game. we must make bold, tough, and sometimes unpopular decisions that will not ask the question, what will it profit me today, but what can we build for our children's tomorrow? we are the promise keepers, and we have never set aside the wisdom of our seniors. we must cultivate and develop the spirit of service in our youth, and we will need the courage and determination of all of those in between to accomplish this. prince george's roll up your sleeves. there are certain promises that i have made to you, and if you are labor with me, i know we can keep those promises together. because when we labor, our focus on education will return where it belongs to students, teachers, and their parents. and we will create a pathway for every child to succeed without respect for their zip code, and they will get head start toward building universal pre-k for every child in prince george's county. when we labor, you will feel the power of your tax dollars, and we will deliver to you a government that is responsible, transparent, and accountable. letter will be removed, mediums will be clean, and code enforcement will be a priority. when we labor, our economic development plan will focus on revitalizing established communities and ridding the county of the food deserts that have negatively impacted some of our most prized neighborhoods and the people who call them home. and we will ensure that revitalization does not push people out of their homes, and that our seniors can age and place gracefully. when we labor, we will have a renewed focus not only on economic development, but also human development. and we will address issues we face with mental illness and addictions. when we labor, we will invest in transportation projects that help you get around our county and not just out of our county. so will you stand with me, prince george's? will you labor with me, prince george's? will you help me keep these promises, prince george's? that is what you all were in this together. we are in this together. and the only way that we will build the county we envision is if we do it together. i am pleased to say that i have amazing partners to do this. i have great colleagues on the prince george's county council who are sitting on the stage behind me. this is a day of significance for each of us. and i cannot wait to work with you to answer the call of service, honestly, proudly. and with the knowledge that we are toiling in the fruitful ground, tilled by our ancestors in order to produce something fruitful for our children. at the end of the day, we are all on the same team. team prince george's. team prince george's? i have got your back. mel franklin and calvin hawkins are new at large council members. i have got your back. tom dernoga, denis tavadas, danielle glarros, todd turner, joline ivy, derek davis, rodney streeter, monique anderson walker, and sydney harrison. i have got your back. and even though he could not be here today, i want to thank governor hogan for assuring me that his administration will support prince george's county. and i want to acknowledge all of the members of our federal and state delegations and the members of our board of education and thank them for their continued service and commitment to our county. together, we will fulfill the promises of prince george's. i want to end this address the way that i begin and end each day. and that is by giving thanks to the god who made it possible. today is a day that i have worked for and dreamed about for a long time. and my solemn promise to each of you that every day when i wake up and every night when i go to sleep, i will carry the hopes and dreams of your family with me. they will guide my actions and my administration will work hard together to ensure that we fulfill the obligation that comes with the awesome responsibility that you have given me. and it will be my greatest desire that every child growing up in my hometown will have the same chance to experience every opportunity that i have had. what a great day to be a prince george. prince george's county, thank you for placing your confidence in me. i will not let you down. may god continue to bless each of you and may god bless prince george's community. thank you. and again, ladies and gentlemen, my honor to present now the prince george's county executive, the honorable angela, also brooks, the leader of the executive branch of the county government. thank you for that riveting speech, especially the personal stories, the family stories that tell us a lot about how she became the woman and public servant here with us today. thank you for sharing those and thank you to your family as well. now please join me in welcoming rabbi saul oreski of the mishkan torah synagogue who will now deliver an inspirational prayer. dear friends, there is a hebrew blessing that is appropriate for this occasion. although it comes from jewish liturgy, it is universal. and i offer it today an honor of our new wonderful county executive, angela, also brooks. and our county council and all others who are serving our county. baruch atah arunai, elohenu melef olam, asher kijano bmitz votav, vizivanu, la asok, bitsorhe zibur. blessed are you, arunai arunai, ruler of the universe who has sanctified us through your commandments and commanded us to occupy ourselves with the needs of the community. today is also quite auspiciously the first day of hanukkah. last night we lit the first candle with the shammosh, the helper candle. tonight we will light two and so on until the eighth night we will use the shammosh to light eight candles. this teaches us two important lessons. the first is that we dispel darkness by spreading light. and just as the shammosh, the helper candle lights the others, we ignite and fuel each other's work with our care and our passion. the second lesson is that we increase light. we do not lessen it. it is our obligation to uplift the good that others do by adding our light to theirs. and not waste our precious time and energy merely tearing down what others have done. hanukkah means dedication, referring to the dedication of the temple in jerusalem by the macbes after they had taken it back from the defeated assyrian greeks. it was a victory of the few over the many. for all of us, however, today is a day of rededication. as those sworn in this morning dedicate themselves to the difficult job of serving the needs of the citizens of our county. though we are also few and the challenges presented are many, we too can and will meet and overcome them. let us unite today with hope and pledge to cooperate with each other in this holy work, drawing on the sparts of god within each of us to together a kindle one awesome light that will be a beacon towards greater freedom and opportunity for all. thank you and may god bless you today and always. thank you to rabbi arreski and now we will have another musical selection from the oxenhill high school choir. we thank you for sharing your beautiful voices with us this morning. hard to follow that. today we gather to witness the administration of the oath of office for some extraordinary leaders. this has been an invigorating morning that will lead to many new and historic chapters of progress in prince george's county history. the people have spoken. their leaders are in place, great expectations have been placed in each of you and in each of you, the people of prince george's county. great leaders, great leaders, they are ready to serve through good, bad and in different times as one county, one team to fulfill the promise of prince george's county. on behalf of the 2018 inaugural planning committee, thank you to each program participant, volunteers, county employees, maryland national capital park and planning commission, vendors, citizens, residents and to each of you here today for being a part of this memorable occasion in the county's history. i want to especially thank prince george's county executive angela also brooke and the prince george's county council for the opportunity today that i have had of being your mc, a chore that i have immensely enjoyed. may god bless america, may god bless prince george's county and each of you gathered here today. to close, please join me in welcoming pastor john k. jenkins, a first baptist church of glen arden back to the podium to deliver the benediction. shall we stand? now unto the god who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we could ask or think according to the power that works in us, to him be glory and majesty, domain and power both now and forever more. and let us all say amen. we would ask that the media please clear the center aisle at this time. again, media please clear the center aisle. ladies and gentlemen, kindly remain seated until a host or host us guide you to a seating row at the reception. as a reminder to the seniors on the arena floor, your shuttles will promptly depart from the north tunnel at 12.30 pm. again, that is the north tunnel at 12.30 pm. thank you for your patience and cooperation. oh, and if miss ronan is still on the stage, we would like to present her with a small token of our appreciation. on behalf of prince george's county executive, angela also brookes administration. thank you very much.