you . good morning everybody. i want to thank you for joining us today. i am john erzen. i am the deputy chief of staff for the county executive. and today you will hear from county executive also brooks and our chief health officer, dr. ernest carter, as they provide an update into the county's continued response to the covid-19 pandemic. and we will take your questions as soon as they are both finished, letting you know the latest about where we are in the county. and with that, i will turn it over to county executive also brooks. good morning everyone. i want to thank you for for being with us today as we discuss some important updates regarding covid-19 in prince george's county. i want to thank dr. carter for joining me again this morning and thank him and his entire team at the health department for the wonderful job they have done during this pandemic. and you will hear from him after i speak and he will give you a more up to date and more in-depth update on the health of our residents in just a moment. we are currently at over 22,000 confirmed cases of covid-19, 730 deaths because of this illness. and so we continue to send out our thoughts and prayers most especially to those who continue to suffer and so many who are grieving right now the loss of a loved one. in fact, i have many friends who also have lost parents and other family members. and so we just continue to remember them as they grieve the loss of their loved ones. i want to thank not only dr. carter and the health department team, but i want to thank all of our prince george's county employees who have just done a stellar job continuing to keep this government running and just working so hard around the clock. i want to thank my team. they are nothing short of amazing. i want to thank all the front line workers, our firefighters and ems and police officers and folks in our courthouse. just everyone who continues to keep us moving forward during this pandemic. and i want to also take a few moments just to tell you a bit not only about covid-19, but i am going to talk this morning about police reform work, the work group that we have formed, and also discuss a bit about our prince george's county forward task force. so we continue to monitor our data and metrics every day. and we have seen some good news. our testing has increased. i tell you, dr. carter and this team has done an amazing job of acquiring those test kits. we have now tested more than 19,000 county residents for the week of july 18th. to tell you what progress we have made, that is more than double the number of tests that we had just two months ago. so 19,000 county residents who were tested in a week. unfortunately, we have also identified a few concerning trends. similar to other parts of our state, we have seen a slight increase in new cases. these cases are particularly following the july 4th weekend. the holiday weekend, we have seen a 56% increase in cases over the last couple of weeks where we had a low of 581 cases, the week of july 5th, to 909 cases for the week of july 12th. and so we are closely watching the lab results as they come in. and we will continue to watch as that trend continues to make sure that it is headed in the right direction. we also have seen our hospitalizations increase from an average of 45 patients per day with covid-19 for the week of july 5th to 62 per day last week. our positivity rate, which we have to tell you, we are just amazed at how far it is come, how you may recall that we had a 43% positivity rate in april. we were able to bring that positivity rate all the way down to 5.3%. we did see a slight increase and went back up to 5.8%. and what this says, and i know that dr. carter will reiterate this, but it means that covid is still in our community and it is still spreading, and that we have to be very, very vigilant. we are very much on the line and we have to be really careful as we monitor that positivity rate. and so, the majority of our residents have done a beautiful job, i mean, an absolutely beautiful job of adhering to all of the advice and instructions that we have given them to wear the facial coverings, to social distance, to not host large gatherings, to be very careful. but we have also seen some who have been lax in terms of compliance. that is been some individuals and some of our businesses, which is why we created the covid-19 ambassador compliance teams. this includes more than 80 of our employees from across county government who perform unannounced visits to businesses to ensure that owners, employees and patrons are really complying with the covid-19 safety protocols that have been outlined by our county. the first visits offer an educational opportunity on the requirements in a warning. after we have warned you and given you that educational material, we are coming back with a fine. the second visit to a business that is not in compliance results in a $1,000 fine and a corrective compliance form must be submitted. and finally, on the third visit to a business that is not in compliance, that will result in that business being shut down and closed until it has a plan in place to come into compliance. and our team has completed a reopening inspection. and so we are dead serious about this. as you know, this is a matter of life and death. and so our teams have visited more than 200 businesses across the county. i am proud to say that the majority of those businesses are following the necessary guidelines and precautions. so far, we have not had to impose any of the $1,000 fines on any businesses, but we have had to close one business as a marshall arts facility that serves children because this business was unfortunately not practicing social distancing and did not have safe practices in place. we encourage our residents if they know or believe that a business is failing to comply with the prince george county covid-19 executive order. we want our residents to email us and let us know about these businesses that are of concern at covid compliance at co dot pg dot md dot us. again, that is covid compliance at co dot pg dot md dot us. and you can also call us at 301 888 36548 301 8836548. if they suspect that a business is not doing their part to protect our residents. now, we know everyone is anxious to get back to business as usual. we know that our residents have grown weary. the summer months are here. it is really hard to wear those facial coverings, especially when it is so hot and humid outside. it really is difficult for all of us. and summers also a time where we enjoy socializing with family and friends. but again, if we cannot say it enough covid-19. it is still very much a part of our community. the pandemic is not over. the pandemic continues and we need people to operate as if this is the case. and so it is important that you continue to wear those facial coverings that you practice social distancing. and in fact, yesterday, governor hogan announced that starting at 5 p.m. tomorrow, everyone will be required to wear a facial covering while indoors in public spaces and outdoors where six feet of social distancing is not possible. and so we want everyone to continue to be in compliance there. dr carter and our public health officials believe that we are not yet at the point where we have to begin to roll back some of the openings that we have done. we know we are watching and very vigilant. but we are not putting new restrictions in place. we are not rolling back the phases that we have implemented. but i want to stress that we want to avoid a setback in our recovery or potentially another shutdown. so we all have to do our best to make sure that the infection rate remains low and that we are very vigilant in listening to the advice that we have been given. now, while many of our businesses are doing the right thing and abiding by the restrictions that have been put in place by our executive order, we are unfortunately seeing and there is one in every crowd. some who are trying to circumvent the order by holding large house parties with hundreds of people in attendance. and these parties are unsafe. they could lead to additional spread of covid-19. in fact, they are almost certain to lead to additional spread of covid-19. and that is why we are taking swift action to stop parties like these from happening in april. the governor issued an executive order that delegated authority to local health officials to close unsafe facilities. this means that only the people who live there are able to be at that property. there are more parties with hundreds of people in attendance. and anyone who violates this order and this includes the owners of the property. any promoters who host the party and anyone who attends the party will be subject to being charged with a misdemeanor that carries a maximum penalty of up to one year in jail and a $5,000 fine or both. they are very serious. this again is no laughing matter. this is a very serious matter. we want we will use it on any property that is willfully violating the executive order and hosting these parties. and the parties again are unsafe for everyone involved. and so we want to make sure that we are doing our part not to allow the spread to happen. the contact tracing statewide tells us two very interesting things. it tells us the family gatherings and parties have been a major source of virus transmission over the last few weeks. in fact, approximately 44% of people reporting who report that they have gotten the covid virus have been at a family gathering. 44%. so this is where people are picking this up and 23% report having been at a house party. so 67% of all of our new infections are coming from large family gatherings and from house parties. what is really interesting about that is we have been talking about businesses and business compliance. the businesses in our community have done their level best. they are doing an absolutely amazing job of making sure that they are safe. and so we have to also do our part as well. and making sure that no matter how much we want to the large cookouts and parties are really unsafe for us. and we know now 44%. i just want to say it again of all of our new infections are from people who have been at family gatherings. so our executive order state stays the gut gatherings must remain at no more than 100 people with appropriate physical distancing and facial coverings. and it is crucial to public health and to our continued efforts to recover from this pandemic that we continue to adhere to this restriction. now while we continue to work through the pandemic and dr. carter and his team will continue to monitor the healthcare aspect of this. i want you to know that we are continuing our work as well through the prince george's forward task force that is working to address the impacts of covid-19 on all prince george and the impacts we know are just really unimaginable. some of what we have experienced in business on the struggle to recover educationally. i continue to mention the achievement gap that i am very concerned about. so education how how to recover how do we recover economically we will be looking at all of these areas to make sure that we are moving forward in our task force co chairs. our doctor charlene dukes and david velasquez and actually it is bill von haney who is our co chair along with dr. charlene dukes and i have to just say oh my gosh how amazed and inspired we are if i can just take a second to say. bill von haney who is co chair with dr. dukes came here at this press conference many of you saw him standing at this lectern talking and he had to submit to brain surgery just one week later and we were deeply concerned but i have to tell you i received the call last week from bill von haney i could not believe it he has more energy than anybody in this room and so he is recovering beautifully we continue to pray for him and he is very involved and continues to be involved in the work that we are doing with this task force he is committed to it. david velasquez be clear as second chairing this for bill von haney he is also doing an amazing job to in real time produce concrete recommendations that can be implemented in the immediate short and long term to launch to make sure that our county is able to move forward and so we are excited by the opportunities that we see as we have begun to identify them for our community the task force will have two public meetings in the coming weeks the first is on august 5th. and the second is on august 19th during these meetings which will be held virtually we will continue to outline our initial set of recommendations and they fall into three categories actions for today meaning what are the recommendations and guidance that is aimed right now at enhancing policy decisions that we have already implemented and in some cases offering additional policy recommendations that can be enacted by the end of the year again it involves everything from how do we tell a work. more efficiently what do we do in terms of government operations it talks about our business climate we have business leaders who are on this task force and so it is what actions should we take today. the second is visions for tomorrow and then a redefined future and so i am so proud of the work of our task force members they are doing a great job in providing us high quality recommendations that we will implement in real time. and so for more information about these meetings including how you can be a part of them and for more information about the recommendations you can go to www.princhtjorge'sfour.com. our prince george's county forward task force also wants to hear from our residents through an email path forward at co.pg.md.us and we will provide all of this information. i want to talk about two other quick topics one is a childcare update during this pandemic our parents have been hit especially hard and after our students have been sent home we know that our childcare facilities were not far behind and so some of our childcare facilities in our county fortunately we are able to receive grant funding through our small business relief fund those childcare facilities receive the total of $735,000 to maintain. they are businesses during the shutdown these childcare facilities across our county have used the funds to pay roll cover mortgages and rent pay utilities and buy ppe for childcare workers but we know that during these very critical times one of the areas that we are very concerned about that will have a tremendous impact on so many of our families is what happens in the world of childcare as families start going back to work we know originally before the pandemic we had 25,000. we had 25,000 childcare slots in our county and now we have approximately 14,000 childcare slots that means we had 1100 day care providers we are now down to approximately 635 so this area has been decimated really hit hard it is something that we know will impact our families and so in the coming days we are going to announce more information about how we will assist these families assist the fathers and mothers this is an area that we know will have long standing implications and so i am proud to announce that i have delegated $2 million in assistance for our childcare providers an additional $2 million out of our cares act funding to make sure that we are doing what we can to to really support our families and to support our children it is our hope that these funds will help these facilities to reopen remain open and provide safe and reliable childcare for all of our families and as i mentioned we are still working out the details but please stay tuned to our social media. we have a lot of social media pages at cex also books on facebook and twitter as well as our newsletter and our county government homepage my pgc.us for more updates to come will continue to provide information i want to talk as well about our election the upcoming election and to give a quick update on it the governor has announced that the election will operate as a normal election but with the absentee ballots being must request being mailed to every voter. so what that means i am sorry let me make sure i am clear about this is that the governor has announced that we will go back to a normal election and unlike what we did in june where the ballots were were mailed to the homes of voters he is now asking that absentee ballot request be mailed in to every voter and the voter has to request the absentee ballot. now i have joined with other county executives and setting a letter to the governor to ask him to reverse his decision and conduct the election primarily by mail we have already set the precedent for we want to do like we did in june to to during the primary we want to be able to conduct the election in the same way for us to be able to fully staff all of our polling locations and i want everybody to hear me as it takes 3,500 volunteers to do that 3,500 volunteers and that is just something that we are not going to do. so we are not going to be able to do in the middle of a pandemic many of the venues that normally serve as polling places such as senior centers churches and private halls have withdrawn because they do not want to serve as polling places during a pandemic and we know that most of those election judges are seniors and it is extremely unsafe to ask seniors to go into these facilities and host an in person election. so we conducted a survey and the survey we conducted revealed that only 34% of our trained poll workers indicated a willingness to work. so only 34% of the folks who we are usually able to rely on have said they are coming back they are not coming back to volunteer in the middle of a pandemic and for these reasons i continue to believe that it is not feasible nor is it safe for us to open 245 polling locations across the county and that we should instead focus primarily on mail and ballots as we did for the primary election. and so today in addition to what we have done with my colleagues from across the state i am also sending another letter to the governor asking him to extend the early voting timeline from october 22nd through november 3rd of this year i will also be asking him to allow prince george's county to expand to 15 early voting locations and to use only those locations on election day. we want to be able to install secure drop boxes at the 15 polling locations and i am also calling on the governor to abandon the idea of mailing ballot applications to residents and instead just mail the ballots. we have done it before we did it in june and we have seen that this idea of requesting an absentee ballot just does not work we can look at the state of georgia they spent five to 10 million dollars mailing applications for ballot and due to many of the last minute applications that they struggle to process voters had to go to the polls anyway and stood in line for hours and hours and hours and hours it just did not work and so during our primary election what we know is that it works to mail those ballots into the homes not only works but it increased voter participation we want to increase voter participation not decrease it and so using a primarily mail in ballots we saw the highest voter turnout that we have seen since the 2008 presidential election so for us it really worked. so us, which we are talking about spoke about the voting locations, mailing ballots to all register voters can ensure that they have the opportunity to vote and what is a critical election while also protecting public safety by minimizing crowds and long lines during the input person voting and so by mail this ballot to all of our voters maryland can continue to leave the nation and protecting the health of all of its residents and citizens and so at this time make sure you are registered to vote request your absentee ballot so take the time to request that absentee ballot. we are encouraging everyone to vote by mail. you can request your ballot be mailed to you right now without having to wait for the state to mail you that request. you can just go ahead and ask for it. just visit our local board of elections website at elections.mypgc.com. we will keep you updated on this, but it is my intention to continue to urge the governor that this is just not safe for prince georgeans. and again, putting many of our seniors' health and well-being at risk. and our poll workers have already said they are not showing up. so this is a much safer way for us to do it. i want to update you on also, lastly, on the latest with our police reform work group. the police reform work group has begun to study and review policies of the police department across a full spectrum of its operations, including hiring, training, and use of force policies. i want to thank our co-chairs, judge maureen lemazny, and also delegate alonzo washington for working on these important issues for us. they are doing an amazing job in leading us along with a very talented and diverse group of activists, those who are involved in criminal justice, and other professionals. and so i want to thank them with the help of the group. we have an opportunity to be safer and more equitable for all of our residents. i think we have a chance to make sure that prince georgeans county is a national leader on police reform. we are very proud, although we know we have a ways to go. we believe that prince georgeans county has made meaningful progress over the years, that we have had, for example, the eight-cant wait recommendations as a part of our general orders for more than a decade. and while we have also seen some other areas of concern, we are addressing them daily. we, for example, have established a partnership with the community college, prince george's community college to provide courses to officers to help them study for exams and improve their test taking to make sure that we are able to help everyone to take part in the promotional process. these programs began earlier this year. some of them have been interrupted due to covid, but we are going to continue them to make sure that equity is a huge part of what we do. so we are looking forward to hearing from our residents on these important issues. last week, we had the first full meeting of the work group where we heard from our community. and as we move forward, it is extremely important to get community input. the feedback we gathered from our residents helps us to chart a course forward for our police department. but i also want to say something else to make it very clear. and let me just be clear about this. this work is not work that i am new to. i served as the elected prosecutor in this state for, in this county for, for eight years. and holding officers accountable is something that i am not unfamiliar with. we have had to do it. and in the cases where it was necessary, that is exactly what we did. and so we, i have never been a person who is afraid to make a hard decision or to hold people accountable and we will not start now. and so the issues that we have, we recognize that we have issues and we are going to address every one of those issues. and i want to thank everyone who has engaged us in this process. this is important work. it is work that we will do together. but the thing that we are not going to do, i wanted to say a couple of things. we are not going to litigate a lawsuit in the media. we are not going to do that. one press conference after the next. you know, as you all know, a lawsuit, i was sued my second week in office. the hylaya lawsuit came out my second week in office. and that lawsuit is one that we take very serious. we have a council representing us in court, which is where the lawsuit should be resolved. the lawsuit was filed in court. it should be resolved in court. it should not be resolved in press conferences and on social media. and so we are going to make sure that there is an appropriate way to address these concerns. and we are going to do it there. and the same is true regarding personnel issues. i am not going to resolve personnel issues at press conferences. i am not going to resolve personnel issues on social media. i am not going to be. so this is just, you know, i think it is important to say that we, that there is a way to answer all of our concerns and to make sure that it is done in the appropriate venue. and so i am going to make sure the thing the public knows is that again, i am not afraid to make a tough decision. this is important to all of us. and we are going to make sure that we get it right. and we are not going to stop until we get it right in the reforms that have to be made. we are going to make sure we make them. i think they are important too, but i just want to make sure that it is done in the proper venue. so we will do that. so that is what we have to say about that. so i will end by saying that these have been some difficult months for us, but we have worked together. prince georgians, i tell you, there is nothing like prince georgians. they have done an amazing job just in every way. and i want to thank all of you for everything that you have done. the sacrifices that you have made, the way that you care for each other, the facial coverings that you have worn without us begging. nobody's had to convince prince georgians that they needed to wear the facial coverings or that they needed to social distance or go home. i mean, you all have done an amazing job and our numbers continue to demonstrate that. i want to thank you for your engagement on every issue from the health issues to the police reform issues. you just could not ask for any more. so i want to thank everyone for your engagement and we will get through this together. so at this point, i want to turn over the program to dr. carter. thank you. good morning. thank you, madam county executive, for your leadership and support throughout this pandemic. covid-19 is still very much around us. we continue to spread in prince georgian county. as a region, we have seen an uptick in cases, hospitalizations, and the infection rate. since the beginning of july, we have had at least two weeks of increases in new covid cases. we are getting close to seeing a thousand new cases each week. the last time we had a thousand new cases a week was almost two months ago. we began seeing the cases increase after july 4th weekend. we went from 581 new covid cases to 808 after july 4th. the next week after that, we saw 909 new cases. now this is in part due to the fact that we are doing a whole lot more testing. the more recent data show, we are doing somewhere around 20,000, close to 20,000 covid tests for our prince georgian county residents each week. this is our highest mark of the pandemic so far. more than 160,000 tests have been done for county residents to date. however, the increase in the new cases we are experiencing right now also shows a stubborn and persistent increase in community spread of covid-19. right now, almost 6% of those tests are becoming back positive. this is evident that physical distancing and other protective measures, both in the county and nationwide, have not been as robust as we should have had them. we must stay vigilant about avoiding crowds, stay in six feet apart and wearing a mask, also cleaning your hands, and making sure your surface is a clean. case in point. if anyone out there has been to a large party lately, we strongly recommend you come get tested. half of our new cases are people who are in their 20s and 30s. gatherings with family and friends is the most common way people are getting infected right now. you can get tested for free and without an appointment at one of the health department's testing sites across the county. you also do not need to be showing symptoms. you do not need a prescription and you do not need insurance. call 311 for testing location information or visit the county's website. as we test more, we are also tracing more. our tracing, a contact tracing operation continues to expand. we are training more people each week to get in touch with people who are tested positive covid-19. we are making sure those patients self-isolate for 14 days and they closely monitor their health. our contact traces then track down who else may have come in contact with that positive person. so those people can also quarantine and follow the same instructions. if you see on your caller id, md covid, please answer it so we can keep you and others safe. our hospitalizations are going up again. last week, an average of 62 people were hospitalized due to covid in the county. that is a 24% jump from the previous week with 50 people who hospitalized for covid. we are encouraged by the fact that our bed space in our hospital systems remain adequate. about 60% of the icu and acute beds are available in county hospital. the sustained bed capacity is due in large part to our great work of our hospital systems working with the health department and the office of emergency management and we cannot thank them enough. our partnership has helped maintain critical ppe supplies for frontline medical staff as well as building additional medical facilities on the hospital grounds to care for those with and without covid. ten of our fellow prince george's died due to covid-19 complications due july 12th to the 18th. the number of residents who have died from the virus has been below 15 per week for about a month now. but with increases in new cases and hospitalizations, the number of our community members, we lose me go up again. this is a really big concern for the health department. the county infection rate is still too high. the infection rate measures how many other people a covid positive person infects. right now, our infection rate continues to linger in the 1.1 range. that means each covid positive person in prince george's county is infecting on average over one other person. that puts us at high risk for an outbreak. we want the infection rate to be far below one as possible to slow the spread and we are working hard to get there. no matter what the numbers look like at a particular time doing this pandemic, the most basic protocol for preventing spread stays the same. at minimum, we must physically distance, frequently wash your hands, wear a mask when you are around other people who are not members of your household. if you go out to any public business or building, you must wear a mask. if you are in any outdoor area where physical distance is not possible, you must wear a mask. this essentially means if you expect to come in within six feet for someone who is not in your household, you must wear a mask. this is to be smart about your surroundings. avoid crowded areas in public and wash your hands as much as you can. i know i repeat this a lot, but this is the most important thing you can do. i am so proud of how our county has persevered so far. most of you are heating this important call to stay safe and be cautious about your travels. remember, you are safer at home. i do remain concerned about the emotional toll this pandemic has taken on all of us. covid has been so rough for so many families. over 700 prince georgians have died due to complications and more than 3,000 have been hospitalized. and that is very traumatic on our population. but the emotional experience has been even more harsh. we have watched the virus take our loved ones and we have not been able to see them when they are in the hospital. all of this stress then turns around to affect our overall health and well-being. to reduce the stress, make sure you eat right. i am starting with the basics. this means fruits and vegetables. and you know, other foods, but make sure you are eating healthy food. avoid foods that are high in sugar, salt, or caffeine because they can increase stress. drink a lot of water, especially doing these really, really hot days. it is plenty of sleep, which is very important. please avoid alcohol and drugs. throughout the pandemic, our hospital systems and our behavioral health partners have seen an increase in overdoses. this is really alarming. exercise is also a stress-reducer. it increases the body's ability to fight off stress with anti-anxiety hormones and it produces endorphins that can help you feel calmer. talk with people you trust about how you are feeling or call loved ones just to say hi or just to check in. it is going to take a village to beat this virus. you are not alone. no more than ever, we need to find creative ways to stay connected to each other and find the support and the care we all need to get through this historic challenge as a people. if you need help, please dial 211 and dial 1. i am confidence we will get over any future bumps in the road to recovery if we work together as a team. be on our best behavior and show how prince george's county can beat this covid-19. thank you. we will open it up now to any questions that you guys have. tracy. so what are you doing now, the residents, who are saying that the parts of the system that we are watching have been going on for more than a week and not three days, not the entire weekend, but a seven-year-old. so part of the reason is that this is a state that is between two. we need to use it to a real life. so we have taken action to make sure that we are closing down the parties at the broad water manchin. that should be known. we have to tell you very simply that we had to have in place the tools to enforce at that property. governor gave the responsibility to the health department and allowed health officers to shut down establishments that are not complying with the requirements and what it requires is that we go to those properties as i explained before we educate, we find and then we shut down. now our police have responded to this location and in fairness, they show up there and they are not always treated so well. in this day and time when everybody has a camera phone, you can imagine the peril that we put our officers in. we ask them to show up, we want them to enforce, but they show up, they are abused, cursed at and treated horribly. and some of them to be honest with you are afraid. in this climate, you go and engage in a crowd of 100 or so people and you do the job that people ask you to do and then you are mistreated. so the police have gone there. we had to come up with a smart strategy to make sure that we are now closing down that particular venue which means the people cannot come there in the first place. so what we have the authority to do going forward is to make sure that the party goers can never convene because it is too late once the party occurs. you come there, try to disperse a crowd with hundreds of people. it is a very dangerous proposition. i have to be honest with you. it is a very dangerous proposition. so we have instead used a different tact now to shut down that particular place. that venue is not allowed to host those parties so that when people come to the party now they can be turned away. and that is a much better strategy. but it is not the case. let us be clear that we have permitted this to happen. we have to enforce using the tools that we have available to us. but there is a very human dynamic also that again, you show up. and it is difficult to disperse a crowd of hundreds of people safely. and so the better thing to do is make sure they never convene in the first place. so i have to add the question. the question is, if you want to comment on the issue, you are saying that the public is not allowed to host places. that means on how they will be allowed to happen. no. if any of the public is, the public is a person who is still going to call and have conversation with the public. can you jump in front of that? can you play over the radio? yeah. yeah, no, that has nothing whatsoever to do with why those parties were convened, which is why that establishment is closed right now. it does not matter who owns it. if it is tommy broadwater or some other person, any establishment like that one that convenes now in an unsafe fashion like that one will be shut down. if they do not comply with our orders, and so it has nothing whatsoever, we do not care whose property it is. so i do not know where that came from, but it is certainly as far as we are concerned. there has been no instruction given whatsoever to respect who the owner is. it does not matter who it is. if you are not complying, we are going to enforce at that property. and then may i have further questions? i am sorry. can you reach out to the wrong part and do yourself? no. i do not reach out to any of these businesses. i let dr. carter, the health department and the police enforce. that is where it is appropriate. this is not personal. this is business. what we have to do is i did not reach out to him. he is not reached out to me. nobody's reached out to me for that matter for many of these businesses because we are going to enforce the law. if you could do 100 or under and the operator. no. this particular venue cannot operate with 10 people. it is done because it has not complied with our orders. and so it is been shut down. and that is how we are going to treat every business. we will give you the proper warnings. and if you do not adhere to those warnings, then we cannot operate your unsafe establishment. and then ask the promoter to eventually try to find out their locations. if you get up with those, do you get that that information? yeah. so we are keeping up with it as best we can. the truth of the matter is, come on everybody. really, this is not the time for, you know, there will be a time for it. this year in the middle of a pandemic is just not the time. virtual, most of us are doing kind of virtual gatherings and that kind of thing. but it just does not. it defies common sense and good judgment to host parties with hundreds of people. it is so irresponsible and so reckless and dangerous. and the thing about it is the party goers who are primarily in their 20s and 30s, many of them have the attitude that they do not get sick or die. but the truth of the matter is, yes, they do get sick. over 50% of our new infections are 20 and 30 year olds who feel, in many cases, that they cannot get sick and feel invincible, but they go home and give it to elders who die. so we have to be more responsible and really care about how we contract this virus and spread it on because you may not die of it, but somebody you love may. so this is very serious. and chevrolet? oh, wow. i got tested there this monday and i got my test result yesterday. we do not want people to have that experience, but i can tell you from my personal experience, i went back there this week and on monday to get tested to be honest before i go on vacation with my family and we got it back in 48 hours, so that is that experience. but i know that there are some who have had a different experience. as we hear that, we are following it up on it. i know that dr. carter is following up as well to make sure because we want people to get, it defeats the purpose not to get a quick test result. that is the whole point is that we want people to know, many of whom are asymptomatic before they spread it. but that is been the experience. dr. carter, do you want to add something? i am simply going to have a question and question all of that. i got to a bit of a mask. the answer is yes. so as you well know and you all have seen the news, the united states, the testing has gone up exponentially across the country. so the national labs in particular get overwhelmed. and so we have noticed that that was an average, seven point four days it was taken at one point of getting test results back. some people, two weeks, other people 48 hours. and it depends on the lab and where they were in their processes. we are really working really hard to press them to get our lab results. it does not make sense as to how many execs said, forget us to get lab results back to late. but it is a problem. it is a national problem. i just kind of wonder if there is a little bit more of a problem than that. i am sort of telling you the news and the vision of the moment. that is a good fact. what happens if all the time we go on the phone, you can imagine things like that, you want to turn it at the high number of examples. but do you have a major question? well, i will tell you that currently there is an ongoing investigation because when what happened, i will respond to this. but at the time in march, that was a raging pandemic going on. more than anywhere else in maryland, prince george's county actually experienced the highest number and had the highest infectivity rate at that time. and it was march. so there was a lot of things that were going on that people may have thought that they experienced. but what the health department did was follow the cdc guidelines. and we did the work that we knew we had to do. and the reason is, is because everybody in the health department, starting with me, knew we needed to save lives. and i have been in this business for 30 years. and all i have been concentrating on is trying to figure out how i can better save people's life. my father was in public health. my brother's a physician, my wife's a physician, his wife. and i am just telling you that what we did was everybody who surrounded me and they knew this, that we had to follow the principles of public health. that first one was to protect people's health. that was the first and foremost. and then we also had to, as part of our mission, to promote personal responsibility for prevention. and so we did everything, everything we were supposed to do during that period. but as, and i will let the county executive address this, as you will know, we are doing an internal investigation. and i will let her expand on a little bit more. so ms. max death hurt all of us. it is the worst case scenario that we would lose one of our employees who was there courageously working to save lives. and so it was worst case scenario for us. we are going to loss of ms. mack and we believe that it deserves an investigation. i want to know what happened. i know dr. carter wants to make sure that there is nothing different that we should be doing right now to make sure that we are protecting the health and safety not only of prince george but those who are working on the front line to make sure every day that this work gets done. so ms. mack and all of our colleagues at the health department are important to us. as dr. carter said in march, what we knew in march is very different than what we know today in july. and all of our workspaces, the way that we were working in march, is different than today because that pandemic occurred and we had never seen it before. so many of the rules that we have implemented, the policies that we have implemented, they have evolved since march. as we know better, we are going to continue to do better. but i want ms. mack's family to know that we are so very sorry for their loss. but their loss is also our loss that our health department lost, a valued employee that our county lost one and that we will make sure that we spare no time or expense in turning over every stone to understand what happened that led to her death. and to make sure that if there are things that we should adjust, we absolutely will do it to make sure that all of our workers not only are safe, but they have to feel safe to come to work. they have to feel safe and that is important to us. no, there is not. we were planning to try to face some back in the fall. we have now pushed that back. we do not believe it is safe to do so. so we are continuing to tell a work and to make sure that we are monitoring our situation, the numbers and such and we will bring people back when we believe it is safe to do so. well, unfortunately we cannot get into the lab and force certain timelines on them, but we are watching. and i think dr. carter can answer this too, but we are watching it and we try to use labs that we think are best for us. and so that is what we are selecting labs that we think are responsive, but in terms of getting in the lab and changing how the lab results occurs. this is a problem again that is happening nationally right now, is unfortunately as we see these surges that are happening across the country, we are increasing our testing. we are now up to 20,000 tests per week. that is a lot of tests. and so as we were saying, it is more than double what we were doing two months ago. and because of that, we are seeing some backlogs, but it varies. i am hearing some people have an experience, was 48 hours to 72 hours. and the instance is where it is longer than that. we are following up with the labs. we are trying to make sure that people get those results quickly because like we said, it does not make sense to get a lab result seven days, nine days after that point, it is too dangerous to do that. so i do not know, dr. cardiff, is anything additional to that? i mean, it is in what you mentioned before in the lab. no, but that would be good, we would. i do know that the state is working diligently to expand their capability. they have the ability to turn it over quickly, but they have not had the ability to handle the volumes. so they have been working to expand that capability. and once the testing, the labs build up their capability, we should be able to get back down to the 48 hour, 24 to 48 hour turnaround time. the governor has suggested that people go to the state, the vision state, go to the state line, and then go to turnaround to the university and the university. are you at the point where he has suggested that the people may be supposed to go into the state line? it will, it will, it just like everything else. if they shift over there, they will not have in seven days turnaround and share really will have. i mean, you understand. it is one of those things we just cannot control. so this, the food insecurity issue, as you know has been one i have taken up from the beginning of this. and we are so much in the thick of this, especially now as we see for example, the moratorium on some of the evictions will be lifted. we are seeing also that the $600 additional that you got in the unemployment benefits will soon be expiring. so we are very concerned about our families who are experiencing food insecurities. now, we have put together a really robust program that will provide those meals at least three times a week. we believe that we have the resources to follow through through the end of the year. but i am continuing to go out and to seek out even private funding to make sure that we are able to continue. i have, after this press conference, i actually have some calls today that we are actually encouraging people to make donations to stand up and deliver. and so anyone who hears this press conference and who has the ability to support us, please help us. these families are out hours long waiting in line for food. and we are going to make sure that we do everything we can to meet the need. and john is here. john erzen, our deputy chief of staff. john has been the person who is been in charge of stand up at delivery. let me see whether there is anything additional going to add to that. sure. thank you. ms. also brooks. just briefly, just on the stand up and deliver program, as the county executive mentioned, it is a program that we have stood up in the county executive's office and it is a partnership with the united way of the national capital area. and we are doing prepared meal distributions that we do twice a week and this week we are also starting the grocery box distributions. and the way that the program works, it really is a great model that allows us to work with local nonprofits and local restaurants and local grocers so that while we are helping them, you know, put their people back to work through this pandemic, they are also helping us, you know, to resolve some of this food insecurity. and as the county executive said, these prepared meal distributions and these grocery box distributions will be going on through the end of the year. right now we are able to sustain it. but certainly we need additional support. as the county executive mentioned, she is working on that and we encourage anyone who is able to support the program. you can find the information on our coronavirus site, on how to donate. you can also go directly to the united way webpage at unitedwaynca.org slash pgc delivers and all of the options are there on how you can donate to this program to help us continue to address food insecurity. and we are going to continue to work with all of our partners here both locally and regionally to continue to address this problem. so can i make a one final question? i wanted to ask around with a press conference. i would tell those questions, the promotion process, the rest of it. there was someone who made you a long-rack fall that was tired of watching, which you would have been able to do. so you know lawsuits, the criminal justice system is important. and i believe that people have a right to file grievances and that is the reason we have the justice system. and the county is responsible for responding to litigation and responding to those lawsuits. we will do so in the way that is most responsible. we want to resolve every one of those concerns in a way that is fair not only to the people who are filing them but to the county. and that takes time. it means that in some instances we mediate those. we are represented by the office of law and they guide us in our approach to each of those complaints. but i do understand that people are tired of hearing about the lawsuits. but it is important that people are able to bring their concerns forward and that we answer them. and i am all for that. that people have a right to have their grievances heard. now the thing that you heard me say here today is for example the lawsuit, the hille assault lawsuit was filed my second week in office. and it was relating to promotional practices that occurred before i was county executive. and it was filed in the court of law and i think that is where it should be resolved. i think what people are tired of is a press conference every week to hash out the details of a lawsuit when the lawsuit should be resolved in court. is filed in court appropriately so and it should be resolved in court. as i think the public is fatigued of every week turning on the television and hearing on the news or in a paper something more about the lawsuit that they know should be resolved there. so we want the lawsuit, we want the concern to be addressed. i will address the concern. the county has a responsibility to answer. if there is some discrimination that is occurring we want to address it. if there are practices that need to be changed we have a police reform commission that is reviewing all of our policies and practices and we will address whatever the concerns all but i think the public is fatigued of every week. we cannot resolve personal issues at press conferences nor should we. it is not the appropriate forum for it. we cannot resolve lawsuits at press conferences. it is not the appropriate forum. i think that is what the public is fatigued of. i think that is what the public is fatigued of.