good afternoon, everyone. we do apologize for the delay. my name is gina ford. i am the communications director for prince george's county executive angela also brooks. as you are aware by now, we were notified last night about our first positive covid fourth positive covid-19 case. and so today the county executive dr. carter are here to bring the latest details. so first you will hear from county executive also brooks followed by the prince george's county health officer dr. ernest carter and then dr. monica goldson the ceo of the prince george's county public school system. good afternoon, everyone. thank you all so much for joining us today as we share. so very important updates with our community. i first want to again by thanking all in county government who have worked tirelessly to make sure that we do everything we can to preserve the health and safety of prince george's. i also want to thank prince george's themselves for their patients who since yesterday have had to wait for us as we gather to to to be able to provide the most accurate and up date up to date information possible to our community. i want to acknowledge those who are standing with me this morning. i first want to thank dr. carter who is our chief health officer who you will hear from in just a moment. i am also joined by county council vice chair calvin hawkins. i want to thank him and the rest of the council for their support. dr. monica goldson who is our ceo of our prince george's county public schools is here and she will address you. ronnie gill director of our office of emergency management and they have been working around the clock as well as fire tiffany green who is here this afternoon. late yesterday evening we were notified by the maryland department of health that a resident of prince george's county tested positive for covid-19. this is the fourth confirmed case for our county. the individual is a man in his 60s who is currently hospitalized. i would like to ask that all of us together continue to keep him, his family and everyone impacted by this virus in their prayers at this time. our county health department is working with the state of maryland to conduct that investigation and we will provide updates to our community as we have it with more information. in reference to this latest case i can tell you that there are also potentially 12 firefighters who could have been exposed to covid-19. the department is following its policies and procedures to regarding self-evaluation of those firefighters and we will continue to monitor their conditions. in addition as many of you know prince george's county public schools was notified yesterday that an individual affiliated with eleanor roosevelt high school in college park academy had close contact with someone who traveled to a country under a high risk coronavirus warning and as in a precaution both schools are closed today march 12th and tomorrow march 13th for cleaning and sanitizing. students and staff will return monday march 16th. you will hear from dr. goldson in a moment but what i should say especially to all of our parents and students is that we will in every instance make a decision that we believe is in the best interest of all of our students and staff and that their health and safety is our first priority and that we will be making decisions that are out of an abundance of caution in every instance. our health department is conducting an investigation and gathering important information from the individual relating to the school and we will keep the public informed about that. there will be a telephone town hall tonight and dr. goldson will provide further updates about that town hall. as we saw yesterday covid-19 is becoming bigger and bigger issue. the world health organization officially declared this virus worldwide pandemic recognizing how quickly it has spread across the world. even more last night the mba officially suspended their season recognizing the potential impact and spread of this virus in large crowds and confined spaces such as a stadium. the good part for all of us is that everyone can do their part to contain this virus. the easiest thing to do is to take several easy everyday actions such as washing your hands with soap and water for 20 seconds and we are asking people to please cover your coughs and sneezes with a tissue or arm. i will let dr. carter discuss this in more detail but there are prevention methods and the one that we are really stressing today is social distancing. this is really important that we practice social distancing and dr. carter will talk more about what that means. i especially want to stress that these recommendations are especially critical for particular parts of our community. according to the centers for disease control and prevention, some of our residents are more at risk of potentially contacting covid-19 such as our seniors and those who suffer from chronic medical conditions. those medical conditions include long and hard disease as well as kidney disease and we advise those individuals to please take extra precautions. this means that if you do not have to go out in public, especially large crowds to please avoid it, we are asking that you also avoid contact with those who are sick and that you wash your hands often. also to have access to several weeks of medications and supplies. there are also some quick things that you can do to plan ahead in case you become sick including please stay in touch with others, develop a contact list of friends, family and neighbors and if you have a caregiver determined who can provide care if your caregiver gets sick and also always listen to your body if you are sick, call your health provider and discuss your symptoms. as a community, we must come together at this time most especially to look out for our seniors and others who are at risk to ensure they are safe and health. i cannot say it enough that our seniors truly are at risk in this and so we are asking all prince georgeans to follow some actions to support and take care of our seniors. let us just make sure that during this time we are taking care of each other. please reach out if you were able to check on our seniors to make sure that they are okay. consider for some of them who now will feel uncomfortable and who it quite honestly will be advised against places with large volumes of people such as the grocery store. it may be a good thing to check on those seniors to see whether you might be able to bring to them some of the groceries or medications or other supplies that they need in order to reduce their time in public and if you have a loved one in a care facility, monitor the situation and call in to check on them and the facility rather than visiting in person. so this is a rapidly evolving situation. it is very important that every prince georgeans stay informed. we will continue to provide you updates but you can do this in a number of ways. call our hotline at 301-883-6627. you may also visit our website at health.mypgc.us. backslash coronavirus. you may also follow us on social media at c-e-x also brooks. and we have a few other updates about these resources. first, our coronavirus hotline will now be open for extended hours including on the weekends from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. daily. we are actually and you but you can always call it the hotline but we are actually the first coronavirus center in the state to open on weekends. we are going to continue to do that as the need arises. in addition, i want to let the public know that we have unfortunately learned that there are a number of fake websites floating around on the internet to try to scam our residents and so we want people to be vigilant about that as well and to be very careful about the messages that you get on on social media. that is why it is important to really stick to as closely as possible websites like the one that the government posed or call our hotline to ensure that the accurate that the information you are getting is accurate and credible and to protect the safety of yourself and your loved ones. we have been printing fact sheets and other information to distribute and we will be mailing it out as well but we want to recommend that our residents please only call 911 for emergencies. please preserve that we are getting really inundated there but for general questions or concerns about the coronavirus you can call our hotline which again is 301-883-6627 and we want you to know above all that we care that the county government is here. we are working to ensure that every prince georgian is healthy and safe and that we will take appropriate steps at all times to provide to you the latest updates that you need so that you are aware of what is happening in the county. working together if we all do our part we really do believe that we can help to prevent the spread of this virus and contain it and we thank all of you again for for staying tuned and for doing your part to make sure that we contain this virus that we stop it and that we protect those in our community who are most vulnerable most especially i will say it and keep saying it please our seniors and those who suffer from chronic medical conditions let us make sure that we are reaching out to them and doing what we can to help. so at this point i will turn over the microphone to dr. carter who is the chief health officer for our county. thank you. thank you. good afternoon everyone. the coronavirus covid-19 is in our community. so we need to team up now. we need to make difficult but necessary adjustments to our lives and our activities. our county government residents businesses and other critical partners across prince georgian county must work together to defeat this disease covid-19. so far covid-19 has shown to be very resilient. the virus has rapidly made its way into the united states but more importantly it has shown to be a deadly virus. the latest data shows that the coronavirus mortality rate is about 15% for people who are 80 or older. i will say that again. the latest data has shown that the coronavirus mortality rate is about 15% meaning 15 out of every hundred people who are over 80 who get the coronavirus. it gets to them. we are also discovering people who are 60 or older as well as people who have severe chronic medical conditions are more likely to be very sick from coronavirus. as we continue to learn more about the virus this remains an evolving situation. our public health experts across prince georgian county and the world are working overtime to get more answers about the coronavirus. those answers will continue to give us the best guidance for how we can win the battle. but we cannot do this alone we need to come together as a county to do our part to keep ourselves and our neighbors healthy and informed. the cdc recommends people minimize close contact and avoid crowds. you have to use your best judgment when it comes to modifying activities and events. if this means canceling a postponing your event so be it. we must protect the health and well-being of our communities. that is where the major adjustments in our life begins. you will be hearing a lot about social distancing. this means limiting your participation and the distance you keep between folks when you are in a gathering. when out in public try to maintain a distance of six feet of more from others. whenever possible. avoid shaking hands and hugging you know prince georgians we love to hug. i know that is tough for us to do. but that is an important moment. social distancing will keep up will help us slow down the spread of the disease. right now we are anticipating an increase in cases in the county and the state. to reduce the spread we must reduce the number of people who get exposed to coronavirus. remember coronavirus spreads person to person. that happens when somebody within six feet of you coughs or sneezes and dispenses the respiratory droplets in the air. these droplets can land in your mouth or your nose of other people. are probably being in probably getting held into your lungs. as we speak the health departments experience and dedicated infectious disease control experts are working extremely hard to gather all the important information from our confirmed coronavirus patients and the people that they have been in contact and around lately. that means right now we are gathering information and we are making trying to determine what the risk exposure is in our county. we are monitoring the situation and we are receiving every update from the state in the cdc and we are communicating with our counties that are around us. one thing i have to emphasize we must continue to practice excellent and consistent personal hygiene. what is that? washing your hands often with soap and water at least 20 seconds. if you do not have soap and water use a hand sanitizer. if you do not have a hand sanitizer at least have a solution of 60% alcohol when you are washing your hands. cover your coughs and sneezes. try to keep your hand out of your face which is very difficult for me but i am doing it. avoid close contact with people who are sick. if you are sick stay home except to get medical care. it takes anywhere from two to 14 days to start feeling symptoms after exposure. these symptoms are fever of 100.4 or higher cough and difficulty breathing. if you develop these symptoms and if you have concerns you have been in close contact with a person known to have covid-19 contact a medical provider. please stay up to date with us through our website and social media accounts look out for each other. really look out for each other. yes covid-19 is resilient so are we as long as we take care of ourselves and each other. i would like to thank you and at this time i am going to hand it back over to dr. goulson. thank you. good afternoon. on yesterday i made a decision to close elinerozovald high school in college park academy for today and tomorrow so that we could sanitize and deep clean those two facilities. it was brought to my attention that an individual affiliated with those two schools had close contact with someone who traveled to a country under a high covid-19 warning. and so i made a decision as a precaution to make sure that those two facilities are cleaned. that does not mean that that person affiliated with those two schools had tested positive. in our effort to make sure that we also practice social distancing we have updated some of our practices and made changes. before we i share those things i want to share that on our main web page we have updated information about covid-19 so please feel free to check our website which is updated daily. we have asked parents to make sure that they check their school max online module to make sure that their contact information is updated as well as their emergency contact information that is located in schools. we have initiated scheduled hand washing at the elementary level every day and a constant reminder to our secondary students to frequently wash their hands. we have relaxed our attendance policy for students who are sick. we ask the parents to please keep them home and no need to get a doctor's note as that they please just create a note when they return from their illness so that we can contact them. we have canceled the following. no international travel or out of state travel. we are canceling international teacher exchange programs. out of state and local overnight trips are canceled. out of state and local conference attendance has been canceled. and out of state field trips including virginia and the district of columbia effective tomorrow will be canceled. we will continue to monitor field trips within the state of maryland on a daily basis. as stated earlier i will be hosting a tele-town hall tonight from 630 to 730 pm. parents and employees will receive a phone call at 630 so to join the call they simply just have to answer the call and follow the prompts. and if you are not a parent or an employee and you would like to join in please visit our web page so that you can get very specific call and number so that you two can join the tele-town hall. we will have a specific line to support our spanish speakers as well. as stated earlier i will continue to monitor our situation daily. i am a parent and an employee and a leader of the school district and always look at every factor involved with our 136,000 students and 22,000 employees. and we will continue to make decisions to make sure that our staff and our students remain safe. thank you. all right. with that we will take any questions. at this current time there is no evidence that this particular person traveled. so this is more than less likely and of course we are still in the investigation stage. but it seems like this is probably a community required. best way to get exported is honor investigation from the hospital community. that is not. could you talk to this please about the protocols now with the first responders who may or may not have that sort of contact. what does that call about? i will actually agree. okay so we may first say this. our friends work with county fire and invest department is ready to handle this incident. we lean forward in january to make sure that our policies and procedures were in place. we ensure that we have the ppe or personal protective equipment necessary for our firefighters to be able to run these calls and to be able to be successful. the policies and procedures that we fall following our normal infectious control policies and procedures. we are working with the department to make sure that we investigate the entire incident. all 12 of the firefighters have been contacted and at this time are being self-evaluated. if for whatever reason they experience any signs and symptoms that is directly related to covid-19 they will follow their normal procedures of notifying the health department and at that time we will evaluate it. are they getting self-evaluated? at this time all 12 firefighters are at home and they are supporting. at this time it is been investigated. it is an active investigation and it is changing daily but we are working with the health department to evaluate that and if at any point we decide that we need to expand it we will. there were three potential contacts. at this point the investigation did reveal that we did have some firefighters that were potentially exposed to the positive covid-19 patient. that is correct. what is the procedure for people being in shape? if they have symptoms and you know that is cough or if they have a fever of over 100-4 or if they have shortness of breath they should contact their physician. and they can notify us but it is their physician who has to make the determination of whether or not they should be tested. how is it they take you you know they take them into the lab you get dead like any other test. yes there is a swap yeah i am sorry. it is very simple. it varies that is number one. it can be 24 hours it can be up to 72 hours. you can imagine that the state labs are getting a lot a lot of tests right now. so it varies depending on you know the rate that they can turn around but for the most part they turn it around in about 48 to 72 hours. who has got to ask two questions. yes. first of all can you describe condition of the individual with their serious whatever that is possible. the second thing is on this testing issue as a local official. is testing providing you the data and you need to determine whether or not community spread is occurring. well the date from the data from the test. well no actually the investigation will tell us about whether it is community spread or not. okay that is number that is one and the other one you asked me. so it is a characterized condition in the individual who is been diagnosed with. i cannot because i honestly right now have not seen the medical record. i know it is serious. it is not it but i do not know what where you know whether it is whether he is coming getting better and better or whether he is getting worse and worse. we that is under investigation at this time. can we use the trial serious condition? i would not. i would not use it at this time because not until i get confirmation from the medical facility and we did not what we what we came to find out was that he was hospitalized and that you know and he this is an individual who we have to and because he is a senior we have to take a really close look at. so when they call when they let us know we will let you know. okay dr. the last use force. i am sorry. spawning events. youth schools that are school related. leads all that kind of stuff. what is going on in the schools is going to know that. thank you for that question. we actually are now reviewing our athletic and performance events for our students. what i can tell you is the maryland state department of education. we are in the process of playoffs at this time and those will be closed athletic events that will be housed at the university of maryland in towson today through saturday. only those athletes and their parents will be able to attend. and based on that information we will be in consultation with the county government to determine our next steps. my goal is to be able to give our community information related to that by this evening's tele-town hall or tomorrow morning. right. in the next course, the campus system did close. what was that process like? i do not know why the decision and what it looked like after. would it be on online courses? would it be? it looks like home and campus for the government. that seems to be the most common question that we receive is what would happen. and in our case really, honestly, we would have to have a more heightened number of cases where we honestly thought that we needed to seclude our students and our staff in a location to help to reduce the exposure rate. we are not at that point at this time. we are in constant conversation with our community partners, meaning our health department, our county executive daily, and my team meets every evening so that we can assess every situation that is brought to our attention. but in the event that we have to close for approximately two weeks, and i say two weeks because that is the amount of time that we have been told could potentially lead to exposure of self-quarantine time. our staff will provide instructional practice for our students to receive at home, but we will not be implementing remote learning. and the reason for that is because i have 82,000 students who are in front of reduced meals, and i cannot guarantee that every child has technology and has access to the internet in order to continue that instructional program. we have received direction from maryland state department of education in the event that that does have to happen, then we will have to be in the position to make that time up, either extending the school day upon our return or extending the school year. well, first let me say the distinction between universities and public school system. our universities have many students who come from across the nation, not only the united states but several countries, and i understand they are heightened in concern and empathize with their needs of want to make sure that they keep those students safe. i also know the communities that my children come from and where they live and reside. and as i stated earlier, i have 60% of my population who is on free and reduced meals. so we are in constant conversation with the capital area's food bank to make sure that in the event that i do have to close. i want to make sure that those students and families still are being fed. we provide breakfast, lunch, and dinner in many of our schools, and so for me to automatically, quickly, quickly to make that decision does not allow parents an ample time to make sure that they get the supplies that they need so that they can continue to protect that child at home. and lastly, just want to reiterate what our dr. carter has stated, the population that is most prone are seniors. i have the opportunity to serve 136,000 students, and though 8,000 of them are seniors, they are seniors in high school. they are not senior citizens. and so it is my goal to continue to protect them and the seniors and my teachers who serve them. and at this point, we have no indication from our health department, our county executive, and other agencies that we are at a point that we need to close the school system completely. okay, thank you everybody. i am sorry, if you have a question, you were calling about sunday, your attention to the school has been thousands of students at press, or calls, calls, where it passes. what is the message for teachers? so we just finished, we concluded a conference call that we actually had with over 100 pastors this morning. and dr. carter was on that call and he said some very important things. we are first of all in a different phase. i think that is important to take away from this particular press conference, because that we are in a different phase in terms of the transmission of this virus. and the reason that we believe that is because the fourth case here is distinguishable from the first three. the first three cases that were positive in our county are individuals who we could trace, travel outside the region, outside the country. the fourth case is a different case. it is different because we cannot, as far as we know, trace travel. this is a gentleman who for the most part, stayed home, did not have, did not travel a lot. and so we are concerned. we cannot trace at this moment, like we could with the first three. and so this means that we are in a different state. and so what we said to our pastors and i will allow dr. carter, if you would like to elaborate on this, is that we have to take extreme precaution at this point. we are advising, especially for older, our older residents and for those with chronic medical conditions, that we advise that those individuals take precaution, including remaining out of large crowds. we believe that it is risky and extremely dangerous to do that. and so we are advising, especially our residents who suffer who are older or who suffer from those chronic medical conditions, lung conditions, heart disease, kidney disease, that it is inadvisable and dangerous to be in large crowds. that is the guidance that i have gotten from our chief health officer from the centers on disease control, who give this guidance right now. and like i said, we believe you move from one phase to the next where it was important for us to give this information now, given that the fourth transmission was one that was very different from the first three where we could chart travel or something else. and this one is a little different. so dr. carter, i agree with everything the county executive i think that this particular positive case gave us pause because we cannot find exactly this person had a travel history. and when i say we cannot find, he we found out that he has not been traveling and if there is any possibility he had, we are still investigation. but the probability that he traveled was very very low from our initial investigation. remember, we have only had a few hours. but we feel like this particular case is different and that is why we had this time come forth and the county executive was absolutely correct. this is a shift in how we start to approach things. i think that is why when i was talking we have to do this together. this is not a health department dictating. this is not what the health department is doing for you all. this is what we are doing together. this is a social responsibility as part of my mission. and that third layer of my mission says i have to make sure that everybody in this county takes responsibility for prevention, disease and accidents. anything that could cause them to have to be unhealthy. so i am going to be pushing to make sure that we do that. so i thank you. that is all. is that it? anything else? thank you all.