good morning. i am muriel bowser. i am the mayor of washington, dc. i am joined today by the prince george's county executive, angela also brooks, our neighbor. we are also joined by the chiefs of police for the metropolitan police department and the prince george's county police department. we are here today in marvin gaye park. we are on our border between washington, dc and prince george's county to talk about how our jurisdictions are working together to address disturbing spikes and gun violence, specifically as it relates to car jackies. we are particularly concerned about how many young people are involved in these crimes. on our side, in the dc side, mpd made 132 arrests for car jacking in 2021. and out of that 132, 85 of those arrestees, of those arrested were under 18. we know that the stats in prince george's county are similar. the county executive will talk about the 152 arrests made for the same offenses with 86 juvenile being part of that number. and when we share a border, we know that crime does not recognize borders. we also know that our kids involved in crimes in dc and in prince george's county are crossing the border. dc kids in prince george's, prince george's kids in dc. we have talked in the past about how this pandemic has upended our ecosystem and upended our communities. and it is obvious to that crime has been impacted. part of our work with teens and adults is to reengage or use, make sure they are engaged at school, after school activities, sports, and work. and all of those things to make sure they are staying on the right track. we have been successful in scaling up our d.y.r.s. programs and our human services programs. and you have heard the chief talk to you already. we are also making sure and looking for increased ways to ensure that everybody is being held accountable through our public safety and the justice ecosystem. and so i want to be very clear that when we talk about accountability from every part of our, every part of our system, we are not going fingers or placing blame, but we are asking everybody to step up and step up like we are going to talk about doing today. so that is why i am saying to pay attention to any new laws being considered or the ones that is on the books, pay attention to prosecutions and sentencing to make sure that when young people use guns, that the outcomes we know can be tragic and we have to prosecute and hold young people accountable if they are not following the law. and while we are also always interested in creative sentencing solutions, and in fact we have invested in a lot of diversion programs. deferred sentencing agreements that do not include services and supervision just do not make sense. so we want our communities to be safe for everyone for the vast majority of our children who are doing the right thing each and every day for moms, brothers, kids, grandmums that are going back and forth leading their daily lives to be safe. and so that is what we want to be focused on, every part of our ecosystem doing what it needs to do to keep our community safe. with that, i want to turn over to our county executive from prince george's county and our friend and neighbor angela also works. good morning everyone. i want to first begin by thanking mayor bowser for being here today and thank her as well for her leadership and for the amazing partnership that we share. i am so grateful for it. and we are here today as she mentioned to talk about an issue that has become so serious, not only for prince george's county, but we are here because this issue also is very serious in washington dc, along with other communities all across the country. as the mayor mentioned, carjacken, along with other violent crimes of up in the washington metropolitan region, we have seen an increase in carjacken since the pandemic began in 2020 and in 2021, carjacken's continued to rise. even more troubling as you refer juvenile arrests have outpaced adult arrests. children between 12 and 17 years old are responsible for a significant portion of the increase in carjacken that we are seeing both here in the district and in prince george's. these young people committing carjacken are not from one place. young people from washington dc and prince george's county are crossing line to commit offenses contributing to a rise in violence all across our region. this is an extremely serious issue, which is why our county is committed to working with mayor bowser and the district to fix this rise in violent crime. preventing crime, and you have heard this already, by children, children committing crime is not just one person's responsibility. as we work in government with the courts, the police department and each other, we cannot hope to solve this problem with these tools alone. what the numbers tell us is that our complex and interconnected society, our ecosystem is damaged. and when an entire ecosystem is damaged, we need everyone involved to come to the table to fix it. the blunt truth is that our children are angry. many of our children have been emotionally traumatized. and as we well know, hurt people, hurt people. to depravity, the sheer depravity that we are seeing in the crime to be committed are a reflection of what these children are experiencing both at home and in the community. they must be healed and they must be held accountable. and as we repair their ecosystem, then we will be able to see our children here. be clear, the government cannot do it alone. these police officers who work so hard day in and day out cannot do it alone. the courts cannot do it alone. we need everybody to step up. these families have to step up. the children's parents have to step up. the community has to step up. and we need our faith, leaders, everyone in the community has a responsibility to making sure that our children are healed. and prince george is what i can tell you is that i have been working directly with our courts to create a strategy that will help address this problem. i want to thank judge tillerson adams, who is our chief judge, and thank the system for working with us. what we understand is that our children have rights. and we want to keep them out of the judicial system whenever possible. but as adults, we have a responsibility to protect them from entering a life of crime. and we have a responsibility to ensure that our neighborhoods are safe. as elected representatives of our community, we have a responsibility to protect our residents. be clear, are you have rights and so do their parents, their grandparents, uncles, and the rest of our community. parents should be able to drive to work without worrying about having their car stolen. these children's grandparents should be able to pick up food without fearing for their lives. no one has happened to prince george's county. we had an older man who went to a gas station. he was a costidere. he was a car jack. he was stabbed. and not only was he stabbed up about his upper body, he was stabbed in the eye and lost his eyesight. no one should be able to have to go through this. and so we are, we have after me, handed car jackers as young as armed car jackers, 12 years old. and so we understand that our government has an obligation to promote both justice and freedom. we have talked a lot about justice, meaning that we want to make sure that what happens is fair and transparent and that the rights of our children are respected. and we demand to have freedom. the freedom to go to the grocery store without being a costidere. freedom to drive into your driveway in the in the in the front of your home without being attacked. the freedom to go about your daily life. and so we want both justice and we want freedom. and as we work on crime prevention strategies, we ramped up our focus now on reducing violent crimes committed by our children. this past spring and summer, we work to engage our youth. many of whom have been deeply impacted by the pandemic. we also wrote summer passport experience and our summer youth enrichment program provided our children healthy, constructed outlets and safe opportunities to socialize. now we are ramping up efforts also to reduce violence and to engage our youth and young adults through our county's hoping action anti-violence project. and i want to thank pastor tony lee and the community of hoping all of our faith leaders who have come together to help us in this effort. we launched this program in late october of last year. and this will help prevent violent crime through our focus on targeted care designed to interrupt cycles of violence that we have seen far too often in our youth. the program will use four strategies. we are working with peacekeepers, incredible messenger, messengers to prevent violence before it can start. we are combining diversion and reentry services which offer first time and recurring non adjudicated youth offenders assistance along with the state's attorney's office. we are using community and school-based wraparound services to offer aftercare for our children after school enrichment programs mentoring our food insecurity. we are dealing with case management and access to in-school peer support groups. and our fourth strategy is a work group called the violence prevention task force. this task force is currently being formed. and what is membership is that the youth will meet and identify areas of critical need. and work to develop short and long-term strategies to reduce violence. this group will also help us identify the concerns and needs of our families, including the needs at home. and we understand why this is so important. you cannot heal children without also healing their families. and so we are going to be asking that task force to look at the needs of parents to find out what our mothers need, what their fathers need, what their families and what their support systems need to be successful. we are currently accepting applications for this task force. and i encourage all of our residents in prince george's council to step up and apply help out and help us. we are also in the process of reviewing grant applications that we have received from nonprofits and community organizations for hope and action. these groups will partner with us to provide greater programming for our youth. and so what we are doing is everything in our power. i know the mayor is doing everything in her power as well to reverse, arrive, and violent crime, and to provide our youth a safe and stable place to grow up. but understand this, mayor bowser and i cannot stand here and coordinate. we cannot work with this with the police community and with others without the also the work of our communities without the collaboration and cooperation of our community. the truth of the matter is that this will not be resolved at the police station. be clear, it will not be resolved at the courthouse. it is not going to be resolved alone by the government. it will require our entire communities to get involved. parents, families, community leaders, this is how this will be resolved. and we wait for it to be resolved at the courthouse. it will never happen. if we expect it to happen at the police station, it cannot happen. this cycle must be broken in our communities. and that is the reason that we are here today is to ask everyone in our community to continue to be engaged in this. the mayor and i will continue to work together. we will continue to work with our chiefs of police and we will hear from today. we are going to be working with everyone. but this has to end. it absolutely has to end. and again, we must heal and hold accountable the young people who are committing these activimes. thank you so much. and i believe in here we have chief conti. good morning, everyone. you know, this morning before coming out here, i was really kind of reflecting on the issue that we were building with. and i have been talking with chief of the first year of his county about some of the things, some of the tactics that we were to really build a path. and we are going to talk a little bit about that today. but, you know, i really have to give credit to the mayor and the county executive because it really cannot be put in more purpose than what is already been said. we have to be able to hold people accountable. we have to give services. we have to do all of that. but we have to hold people accountable for the actions that they are committing in our communities that impact me, it impacts everyone that is up here and it impacts all of you and all of you who might be watching this. you know, i have a saying, people respond differently depending on their proximity to the pain. when it happens in your block, in your neighborhood, it is your mother, your brother, your sister, your father who gets car jack, people respond differently. and i have been on this police department long enough to recall back in the early 90s when car jacking was an issue in our city. and in many cities across the united states. and as a result, i believe it was a death that occurred in howard county as a result of a car jacking where changes came about then. and what did those changes look like? those changes came in the form of holding people accountable. those changes came in the form of not letting people be out in community who are committing car jackings. not letting them be in community. how often have community members heard me say, people cannot car jack if they are not out in community. and as i have looked at the stats from chief of z's from prince george county and what we are seeing here in the district of columbia, it is exactly the same thing. it is the same thing. over a hundred kids in the district of columbia arrested for car jack. over a hundred kids arrested in prince george county for car jacking. where do young people write now? are they receiving the services that we hope that they should receive? where are they now? they are in community. i assure you they are in community. and when they are in community, it becomes very difficult to ensure that accountability happens the way that it is supposed to happen. let me tell you something. playtime is old. this is not a video game. this is not a game where we have planned chicken and we are not going to figure out what it is we need to do here. the mayor and the county executive have already stayed with. we got to come together and everybody. this is not a spectator sport. everybody has a responsibility here. community members have a responsibility. courts, judges, the police department, people who prosecute case, all of us have a responsibility. i am pleading to the community as a father, as a responsible father. i do not allow my children to cut up in the house and do things and then i send them outside. they may go in their room. they may have to sit down for a while, but there is accountability that comes along with the love that i give them as a father. we have to challenge ourselves. are we really showing our children love by allowing them to car jack, put a gun in somebody's face, and then send them back out in community and we call that love. if that is love, i do not want no part of that. and you should not want a part of that. we should want better for our children. and sometimes the reality is that our children are in not so good situations at home. that is the truth. and when they are not in good situations at home, why are we so in a hurry to put them back in a situation that is not good for them that allows them to car jack people. last year we had 456 car jackins in our city. and yeah, we can arrest people and arrest people and arrest people, but are the children receiving the things that they need, the healing that they need? is that happening? and if it is not one night, we have demonstrated leniency. we said, we arrest less people. we do all these things. things are going to get back when we have arrested less people. we have increased the number of kids that have been arrested for car jacking to the one outpacing the number of adults that have been arrested. look back, i challenge you. look back and look at what the penalty is for adults when they car jack. why is that penalty what it is? why did car jackins go dormant for so long? if it calls for commitment, then it causes for commitment and commitment in the form of sitting somebody's young people down because when their friends see them car jacking and they are back out in community the next day, what is the motivation for their friend not to do what they do? like i said, playtime for games is over. and we all have to come together and take this issue for the serious issue that it is. and not wait until there is a loss of life. oh, i see him the recall, we had a loss of life last year with respect to young women who project a man last year. last year, i formed the car jacking task force in the district of columbia last year when we called this issue out last year. and here we are a year later. what has changed in the system, what we know that has changed in the system is that the number of arrests has been and went up. but the rest of the system, we must look at that to see where are their opportunities for improvement as the mayor mentioned. this is not an exercise and finger point. but if we can sit here or stand here and say that we all do not have a responsibility in this, then we are fooling ourselves. we are fooling ourselves. it is not going to get corrected by a government program or the police locking everybody up. it is going to take all of us to get things the way that we want them to be. so just really quickly, a couple of things i want to talk about. the car jacking task force, the metropolitan police department started last year. we are building out that out and we are expanding our car jacking task force because it has demonstrated at the very minimum that we can connect cases that we can take people into custody and we can lock them up for the car jackens that they commit and commit. first thing, in addition to that, we are committed to increased collaboration to address the regional issue through cross-border initiatives with our partners here in press jordas county. as chief of ziz now looked over the people who are being arrested and you look at the number of people who are being arrested in the district of columbia and also being arrested in press jordas county, it is the same kids. it is the same kids. but you cannot go into a dc code or press jordas county court and talk about what they did over in the other jurisdiction. there should be fundamentally there is a problem with that. there is a problem with that and we have to make sure that collectively that problem is being addressed. the other part is the cross-border initiative. many years ago we did a cross-border working with our partners at press jordas county police department. the chief not reviving that, but we want to have metropolitan police officers and press jordas county police officers working the borders of the district of columbia because oftentimes what we see are young people committing crimes and they head straight for the board. they head straight back to home base, home base being in dc or home base being in press jordas county. so we want to shore up our partnership there and make sure that we have a very robust intelligence sharing strategy. some of the specific tactics and things that we will do behind the scenes obviously we want to talk about those things but i will assure the community that we will work at with press jordas county and spare no expense what we expect to do and the things that we need to do to hold young people accountable and make that information public. make that information public about the rest that have happened and what is happening with those arrests and why would suggest that community members do is follow these cases through the system. if you see somewhere along the wild with things and not being held accountable as they should be then that should be a question that community is raising. are the penalties and are the things that are happening with this particular individual with this particular incident that happened or just in general is it does it marry up with what you believe should happen when a person carjacks somewhere. i know what it is for adults. right now we are talking about young people specifically because of the sheer numbers of them. the sheer numbers of them and the reality is right these cases they are not really they have not been moving through the system. so those are the key things that i wanted to touch on really quickly. i got a little excited up here because you know i am just really passionate about this this issue and i am going to i am you know i am going to i am going to i am going to just turn turn these comments over and not worry about it but if you take away nothing else that i say i am appealing as a parent as a daddy first as a daddy first what do you want for your child. what do you want for your child because see here's the other sad reality that people will not talk about see i get to see it the chief get to see it when these young people progress through these crimes and we are not holding accountable i end up standing over top of when they did and how can we help them that right i end up standing over talking because they did because the average person that is arrested for homicide in the district of columbia 11 times they have been arrested prior to their homicide and in many cases the victim is the same story so when we want to jump when do we want to jump in and help do we want to jump in and help on on the front end of this thing or do we want to get in you know again when chief conti has to stand up with chief disease at a press conference and talk about the sad life that is been lost and all that kind of stuff when are we going to start taking this thing seriously it is a collective effort and i appreciate the community support to make sure that we are holding people accountable when these types of crimes are committed in our communities thank you so much chief conti i think you you heard chief conti and the passion that he speaks with and i think it was a well-warned chief of the leaders that i stand beside here i do not know how i could say any words to reiterate more the importance of standing here today to talk about this issue at hand i heard my county executive talking about the rehabilitation and sometimes you have to rehabilitate people on the inside and today show that they can live properly among us on the outside and i heard the mayor talk about it is not thing of point and it is not thing of point but it is what chief conti said about accountability so when will we hold everyone to the same accountability in which we are here and that is an important statement to make first i will cover some some issues here or some items and then i will expand on it and i want to first start by thanking my county executive miss angel also brooks the dc mayor bowser and my friend and compadre chief conti but a partnership and exemplary leadership on the critical issues addressing violent prime especially card jackens they have outlined our jurisdictions are seeing an increase in card jackens and unfortunately more and more juvenile are committing these violent crimes in 2021 alone we had 393 card jackens 393 card jackens 12 year old card jackens we arrested 66 adults and 86 juvenile so far in 2022 that trend continues more juvenile arrests than adults and this cannot continue our communities deserve to be safe and the juvenile committing these crimes they deserve a brighter future but they also deserve accountability in prince george's county to tackle his growing number of card jackens we have established our card jacking in addiction units when our first arrived here we noticed that card jackens were on the rise and even as far as last week i was looking at some statistics and i went back to the 90s and in the 90s it said we had a card jacking problem and that was interesting and then it got to the mid 2000s and it said we had a card jacking problem and that was interesting but what was not noted was the numbers after that that said that we resolved those issues then and even now we can resolve these issues now through hard work and resolve through that determination when we centralized our card jacking investigations team and assigned the team of talented detectives and leaders who are strictly dedicated to reducing these crimes through these cases and we are seeing some success since september that unit has made more than 90 arrests the unit could not close this many cases without a strong relationship with our partners at dc police i am from texas so let us call out here yeah they gave me some handw almost but they did not seem to be working the see how this collaboration works the communication between our agencies is around the clock and effective in addition to our card jacking in addiction unit the pgpd's gun intelligence unit is hard at work to investigate each arrest for those who commit gun crimes or the commission of gun crimes and our county and in our jurisdictions the unit is focused on neighborhoods with see an increase in shootings and violent crimes involving guns the unit's job is to identify the shooters and build cases for state or federal prosecution since september they have also been tasked with reviewing firearms and cases in the county and following these cases throughout the judication in 2021 pgpd we recovered 1,399 guns and made 941 arrests so arresting is not the problem arresting is not the problem the community often calls upon us to make a arrest and we have done that you called upon us to make less arrests and we have done that so what is the next step in resolution we realized that we want to arrest our way out of any issue but we remain committed to supporting programs like the office of community first the police athletic and activities lead things like my county executive mentioned with hope and action with past belief and inside of this are stats that would sound astounding except to police chiefs like me and chief conti cajacans in prince jarges county in 2019 we had 93 cajacans and 21 juveniles were arrested and 2020 we had 263 cajacans and 77 juveniles were arrested in 2021 i mentioned we had 393 cajacans and then we are arrested 86 juveniles out casing adults and so far can add those together we went over 100 arrests for juveniles we have had just 11 so far this year of juveniles involved in cajacans which seems to be an amazing statistic except to people who see this every single day the people you see behind you we are no stranger to these to these numbers the juveniles that we are seeing involved in these cases young people who have no fear of the consequences that are involved meaning they have no fear of accountability at prince jarges county and washington dc we share more than just the border we share a joint future a collaborative mindset and we seek a safer place to live and work and play to shop to be entertained in that safe environment our collaboration on our cross-border initiative resulted in the successful apprehension of suspects involved in the cajacans of the candidate for dc council without that collaboration we would not have arrested that individual and led us to more information involving homicides that is where the projection goes cajacans to homicide chief con tni and the leaders you see before you we will continue to work with our criminal justice partners and an accountable way in this system to keep focusing on accountability so we can share the common resolve to keep our residents safe by working side by side and we will interject our sales and what i call this vicious cycle and this vicious cycle that often revolves around poverty being born in a certain situation in a certain part of town and getting a certain education which is poor and attending a poor school and getting a poor job and then introducing your kids inside that cycle while we introduce programs to help you become accountability and on the other side then we interject our sales and not just standing here singular and alone and by ourselves that we must enjoy our other partners that revolve in this system that we are just one cog in this wheel and that one cog in this wheel from policing to the state attorneys and district attorneys through commissioners to judges to ngos from from from charities to people in the community for re-entry for rehabilitation that if we do not act as a collective fist as a collective entity and a collective ecosystem then we we will fail so again we stand here to call on that accountability from young people that they will see consequences to their actions for taking a gun and put may gun to someone's face and taking their property without consequences without fear that we will hold accountable our partners in this criminal justice system that we go 100% to what we say we do best and with that i will conclude thank you so much. thank you. i want to thank all of the speakers count and the county executive and i will take a few questions with the chiefs. also before i do that i want to thank all the men and women of both departments who are working under outstanding leaders to to make sure that we are keeping our community safe. so what what i heard and all of the comments who said we need everybody to step up in their lane and and do our jobs we also need to focus on how we heal our young people and hold them accountable and then that is the basis of real love and commitment to their future so i will start here. channel nine. all right megan ripper-streer from channel nine. chief county mentioned that for a while you did not see a lot of car jackings in dc and now that that member has spread to juveniles and outpacing two to one do you think that older people are putting younger people up to these crimes because the punishment is not severe for juveniles as it is for adults. chief. certainly there could be a case of that you know a one-off but in general no it is not that. i mean we have seen young people who commit car jackings just for the fun of committing the car jacking. they have friends who see them do it they do it we have had young people committing car jackings and while they are being pursued by the police they are live streaming themselves laughing right at as they have committed their car jackings so i do not think that it is a thing of people putting up other young people up to it i think that we have a system in place right now that allows people to young people to engage in this type of behavior and the consequences have been very many. brad bell is channel nine. hey where where is the failure? i am also brooks i mean in princeton or just county there is one judge that handles all of the juvenile cases we are hearing stories of the same juvenile being arrested over and over and over again for car jackings. where is the failure you are talking about accountability cogs in the wheel chief is a crazy abuse whose it well you know it is hard to say that there is any one part of the system what i have said is that the entire ecosystem is broken i think the act speaks for itself all of it is broken you know we have children who are not only committing one offense after the next you heard the chiefs say that they have no fear that they mock the system we also know that hurt children hurt other people and so we know that there is a responsibility to share by all of us the government has a role to play in terms of making sure that our children have places to live better safe and they that they have the food that they need that we make the mental health care available to them that the programming's there we also have to make sure that our parents have the tools that they need to support their young people and the community has responsibility parents have a responsibility the court system has responsibility after being arrested and made also to make sure that these children are held accountable to state attorneys everyone in the ecosystem has a role to play and so you say which part of it is is broken all over if you ask me and i think the act speaks for itself when we anytime we see these numbers increase in the way that they had and the sheer depravity of the cases i mentioned that one case of a person who lost his eyesight that depravity that i tell you i have not seen and i have been system for a long time i started in 1997 at the process this is increasing in a way that is alarming and should be very alarming everyone has to step up and do that every day i do not think i can see it any better than what my county executive said i know you know that brad you are asking things that you already know that i am gonna say but this is what i would add to it that would be just a little bit different it is a true failure and i will system that we sit in circles like this but yet the accountability is here the accountability is only here when we get true accountability then our other partners that are in the system will be challenged for their actions would be challenged for their actions that means something because the police are challenged our leaders here challenge so who else gets challenged in this system and held accountable for the results that is all i can add to it i think that is it yeah question for the mayor and the chief the dc side of the people mind um you know chief potty you have spoke about changes that held people accountable can you be more specific to the laws that you see have changed that are no longer holding especially juveniles accountable and on the legal side what if anything can you do to address that and then my other question is on the dual task force we know that you have involved in working together the oig's office has one addressing the same issue so what exactly is you so a couple of things thank you for your question so for the part about what change with the law it is not so much of what change with the law with the adults we know that there are things that are already in place there is no legislative change there but the the issue that i see is how is that a young person carjacks somebody today and in very short order prior to their trial and we know that you know with the covid restrictions and so forth that could be a ways on that that young person is back out in community that is a problem and i think that there is an issue there that we really have to examine right whether the case is prosecuted not it so we have we have had those discussions right but a decision is made at some point what is going to happen with this young person i think that is kind of part of what the what the chief is talking about right i mean we lock them up and it goes to the next phase they say okay uh next phase what are we gonna what are we gonna do here we are gonna you know we are requesting that this person be held or decision is made at that point should this person be held or what should this status be and we have to have an examination of the entire system to really kind of get to the root of it in terms of the the second question that you answer yes we have you know collaborate i think the big takeaways here for much fall to police fun and prince george county and the mpd sign the house we are expanding our carjacking task force we are embedding someone on the prince george county side and we are also going to be doing our cross-border initiative while police officers are actually working together there is some things that we kind of got to work through whatever in terms of you know legally what that entails or what our limitations may be but that is a an important part of this because the kids are going back and forth across the lines and we cannot do what we do and be effective at what we do if that partnership does not exist and right now it is really not formalized it is more you know hey this officer over here knows this also over here in the county a car jacket happens a six d officer picks up the phone and calls an officer in the county kind of thing and we have to be more formal than that so the expansion of the task force is a big thing for the much-polyte police department because that has shown the work and then again like i said the cross-border initiative piece will embed in somebody with the poster of this guy hi i am casey with doc news i have two quick questions for the mayor the first being president biden is going to new york city tomorrow to address guns we have seen a crime surge in cities across the nation is it a gun issue specifically is there something else going on and i can ask my second one after the answer i am going to keep you for that sure so we have talked to quite a lot about a guns and the easy availability of guns guns crossing borders going up and down 95 going in and out of dc for maryland and virginia and the very easy access that our young people are are having to go with guns and the chief can tell you how many of these projects think that they are saying probably the majority of them involve a gun so we know and speaking of accountability we have a focus on dealing with all people who are using an illegal gun in a focus on making sure that the courts are getting those cases through and that people are being held accountable at the point where where they have a gun we have worked across the board with the atf as well as the united states attorney's offices and in neighboring virginia counties to focus on limiting access to guns more quickly you said that there is no reason to point fingers and discussing the recalls as or who is to blame for this crime and hard jackings but the ag seems to as you went to twitter over the weekend and said that you are indeed claiming the prosecution side what is your reaction to that i do not i am not going to go back and forth with like politics because what we are doing right now is way more serious than that and somebody mentioned i think it was the chief mentioned that we all are held accountable by our bosses and my bosses are the people that district of columbia and i have been to too many meetings where they are concerned about public safety as the county executive said the the fear and anxiety are here and our residents i have not heard a little bit in some areas around around project in robbery attempts and so i know my job is to take to the people of the district of columbia what we need we need our metropolitan police department to have all of the resources they need to deploy strategically and effectively where they can make a difference in communities that is important it is also our responsibility to provide services and we have so many programs and services i heard the list of the county executive listed a community group asked me the other day what can we do to help that does not involve the police help connect people and families that you know need help to programs and services that are out there to help them because we have a lot of those programs and services to help everybody we have also been very focused in the district on working with the superior court we actually we would like to provide services to justice involved young people that the courts are providing now we want that responsibility so we will continue to work with the courts in an arrangement so that we are supervising young people that have been involved in crime and not the courts but it is also true that not every person not every young person should be in a diversion program i think what you heard in the chief chief's remarks is the idea that everybody should be out of the system and at home to rehabilitate well if the family cannot help their young person rehabilitate it is as a responsibility to make sure that young person is rehabilitating now we should also point out new beginnings no new beginnings is is our place where committed you are rehabilitated it is an opportunity if you ask me and this this message is not for you as far as judges it is an opportunity for a young person to get on the right track to get school to get counseling and to be out of an environment where they might kill or be killed that is an opportunity any other questions yes good morning i am james wright with the washington informa newspaper i have a question for either executive also books or chief of zis okay in prince george's county you have municipalities these municipalities have police departments what role if any are they going to play in terms of this card jacking effort well let me say we were really closely with our municipality chiefs and we have been for many years a decade what we are doing now is strengthening our information exchange we have many police officers in those municipalities who can help us with these things but what i was told as far as about three weeks ago in our last meeting is that they needed more information and better statistics in order to help them we have already addressed that by giving information in almost real time two goes municipalities but we have not strengthened the bonds in many years and we are working to strengthen in those bonds without municipalities they play a very vital role and without those police chiefs and their leadership in action prince george's county and our police department and our county would not be as successful as we have been just tell james that was a good question because there are a lot of resources that can be brought to bear on on this problem i know that the chief calls on federal resources as well including the atf da they made a recent very important arrest involving you know people died because of this bad road some of the streets so well they are all bad but they do not okay mark yeah i hear you guys saying particularly on the dc side you know about diversion not working in all these juveniles you seem to be saying that they are re-offending and that is what i want to know do you have data can you show us that these kids who are arrested once put in a diversion program not sent to new beginnings or someplace like that sent back into the community are then re-offending because we hear you kind of implying that at least i am through that from what i am hearing but is there any data that actually supports that yes let me correct you on one thing i did not say diversion does not work diversion can work is just not appropriate for every situation and there has to be appropriate supports in that diversion so we have very successful programs that we have supported in our department of human services and there have been there is also supervision of young people who have already been committed on the court side so diversion can work supervision certainly should be working and we need to make sure that all of the supports are there but it is also not appropriate for for every case in mark you do know that we are limited in what we can say about useful offenders the chief may be able to say something and some you know i just want to add one thing and you know what this is just a blunt answer well the truth of the matter is we are not here to celebrate how successful we have been in these programs because if we were successful we would not be here talking about it we are talking about 300 in prince george's in 193 par jackings primarily committed by children and so we know that we have programming we know that some of the programming works but the truth of blunt truth is if it was working as well as it should have we could be here having this press conference and so we have to do we know that the children that the juvenile system well aim is to rehabilitate children they are not being rehabilitated because they are out in our community farming our residents terrorizing them traumatizing them and they have been traumatized themselves and so whatever we are doing the point of this is that it is not working nearly well enough and as the mayor said i am hearing from our residents as well they do not feel safe and these crimes are no longer being committed just in gas stations and a convenience store these children are in people's driveway farming them and so it is just at a point where it is it is not working and that is why they are ringing this bell today and saying that whatever it is we are doing clearly it is not working nearly well enough or it is not working well enough for us and we have to do different and do better and everyone has to do better all right let us take a few moments and we will take a look at it in the comments you know how many more of you know how many of the programs we have seen for that numbers how many juvenile suit prosecuted 70% of the 100 that you were arrested i have asked his office they have not been able to give me the data how many of those rest ended up in diversions you know how many end up in diversion and how many reoffend yeah i am not sure the number that actually ended up in diversion mark but i am sure he will be able to provide that to you i will tell you what my gut tells me i will tell you what my gut tells me as i look at the bailing as i talk to chief is decent compared names in the law enforcement service their children let us just say let us just say have none of them reoffended if none of them reoffend the fact that between and press drulges county and dc we have over 200 young people that committed a car jacket is staggering to me and it should be to everybody there are instances where there have been young people as we look back over the case look back over the last couple of years some of them have been repeat offenders in terms of what that exact number is maybe we can share that that information specifically a little later but the other thing that we are seeing when i look at for example and this is what we have talked about this yesterday i am looking for example in dc here's one of my kids that committed a car jacking in dc and that same kid get arrested by chief of z folks over in press drulges county are you able to go in the court and press drulges county and talk about what happened in the district of comahmoud when we arrested the kid the car jacking if he did not car jacking in the press drulges county and that is a problem right that is that that in itself is a problem beyond beyond that just not whatever happens on the judicial side of things that is not my lane so i am trying to kind of steer clear that but with respect to the young people that we are arresting the other piece of this which makes this a little murky to kind of talk about it some of the young people mark that we arrested that we arrest the second go around we have not even talked about the ones that get arrested for the stolen autos you know why they get charged with stolen autos let us talk truth for a minute right and you look at those numbers why they get arrested for stolen autos and not car jacking because if they car jack somebody they got a gun in somebody's face in the mask form the victim cannot identify them so when we do catch them we cannot charge them with car jacking but we will charge them with the stolen car so when i look across the county borders okay how many my kids have been arrested over in prince george's county but still in the stolen car those numbers i think i want to say it is up somewhere around like 38% of kids right but i mean it is a problem and people are trying to focus in on the one-odd so this and that the bottom land problem 200 kids between dc and prince george's county arrested for car jacking should be alarming to everybody whether they repeat a fender or not repeat repeat offenders that is a glaring problem but the fact that they did it one time the fact of the 13 or 14 year old one time thought it was okay to put a gun in somebody's face and take their car we have to look at what we are doing here and as the county executive the mayor and the chief and all said it is a holistic look at the system mark what is everybody doing and are we doing this is best we can in that space let me add someone that is because i think i want to add that because he asked question and the answer is yes we can we can show you statistic after statistic of juveniles who have been arrested multiple kind of time 10 11 12 times so much that we put that into some kind of matrix where we can understand the juveniles who keep re-offending without consequence so yes we can show you that so again alex bound then when are we going to enjoy the rest of the system to say what are you doing at what point are you going to be held accountable at what point would that juvenile reach out to us because we have been doing so much reaching and at one point will we say enough is enough we do not need to further victimizing people in our residents and our cities and our county my name is manzla oh thank you i am a community member from up in capital view so i am acutely aware of this cardiac and problem having witnessed too in my own neighborhood but i am here to talk about a connected issue here we are on marvin gaye trail and if you look around or you follow it down to the end you will see that we have a playground that is completely falling apart but also a playground where there was a murder and maybe the middle of june july right there in front of it so we have both a failure of our young kids for the most basic things safe places to play and a failure to get the youth in our community connected to the services so that they can not engage in criminal activity right there where our children want to play so what i wanted to add is you know what can we look forward to from your office as far as addressing of course the playground itself but also disarming community well we are very engaged in this community i think you know in when i just wrote has a lot of the investments we have made right here at strand what we have made in our public housing i will take a look at the park have some dgs officials here and we will we will work on that but if you are asking me about who killed somebody in that park i wanted the police to address that because we again if somebody died there we should want to make sure that that victim has justice and that we are cleaning up everything in the community but thank you for that question we will simply think the second question was here and then you yes yeah and katie met lauren with the washington post i am just wondering if maybe both of you can address what work is being done currently to work with the state's attorney's office those prosecutors and most jurisdictions to sort of mitigate this or address what the chief just said about which is the juveniles are being arrested over and over and over again and we have a regular coordination with our criminal justice partners called the cjcc the prime justice coordinating council where not only members of my administration on the executive side including the attorney general for the district who is responsible for use prosecution but also federal partners and our courts which are also our federal partners so we are doing some ongoing on going talks about how to make sure all parts of our ecosystem are working better we have also added some work to that in the deputy mayor for public safety is here with an initiative that is focused on people of all ages who we think need more intent services through our building blocks initiative and as they get those intent services we hope that we prevent them or stop them from engaging in crime as i was standing here i mentioned to the chief like even our regional coordination which is also these folks or us and we are talking all of the time but i think following some numbers and providing some public feedback and what we are doing together we will work on a way to do that so someone to the mayor we are working with our state attorney's office we have a criminal coordinating committee we also have regular requirements that involve the state attorney so we have been in communication with the state attorney and the state attorney's office our state attorney did form also the card jacking task force in the government is participated also in that card jacking task force and so we are all in regular communication and we will continue to do so judge tell us and adams has convened a group we were able to meet last week we are going to include the state attorney also in that group or we meet not only with the police department the courts this sheriff's office and everyone will be continuing to sit at the table and to come up to with solutions on these issues but these are real serious issues and again everyone has a role to play and they are going to all just hold each other accountable to play our serious roles thank you all extra thank you jenny gaffer with the main news news news one of the clearly raised me by advocate and also my dear commencement this upcoming election has been that your administration has not really seriously invested in non-police methods of that interaction we have not been sort of included given a few of the two long-to-company so planning around this stuff and the state's position with violent contractors and credible method there is have not been adequately professionalized given the resources to really you know be part of this work and i am curious what your response is to that with regards to both the position of project and also just violence for brother well um i do not know what you call a 58 million dollar investment in one year i do not know what you call doubling on the office of neighborhood safety and engagement in a time that it is been in place to think five years now to today on doubling its resources and professionals and creating an entire government agency but what i call it is a real investment in techniques that we are hopeful will work over time even the main proponents of these techniques say that it takes time well we have been willing to put the district tax payers dollars into that hope and what that means is that we are hiring people that go across neighborhoods that we have identified as most serious crime we have created a structure for intense services for individuals who have identified as being most likely to commit crime and be victims of crime and we put all of those resources out into the streets including working with our nonprofit partners with providing grants and services all right thank you everybody