[congressional record volume 169, number 158 (thursday, september 28, 2023)] [house] [pages h4826-h4837] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] department of state, foreign operations, and related programs appropriations act, 2024 the speaker pro tempore (mr. gimenez). pursuant to house resolution 723 and rule xviii, the chair declares the house in the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the further consideration of the bill, h.r. 4665. will the gentleman from indiana (mr. yakym) kindly take the chair. {time} 1852 in the committee of the whole accordingly, the house resolved itself into the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the further consideration of the bill (h.r. 4665) making appropriations for the department of state, foreign operations, and related programs for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2024, and for other purposes, with mr. yakym (acting chair) in the chair. the clerk read the title of the bill. the acting chair. when the committee of the whole rose earlier today, amendment 64 printed in part d of house report 118-216 offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. burchett) had been disposed of. amendment no. 65 offered by mr. burchett the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 65 printed in part d of house report 118-216. mr. burchett. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. ___. the salary of kelu chao, deputy chief executive officer of the united states agency for global media, shall be reduced to $1. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 723, the gentleman from tennessee (mr. burchett) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from tennessee. mr. burchett. mr. chairman, this amendment would reduce the salary of the deputy chief executive officer at the u.s. agency for global media to $1. the deputy chief executive officer at the u.s. agency for global media is also responsible for rehiring setareh sieg, who knowingly misused taxpayer dollars and lied on her resume. whistleblowers come forward to shed light on the rampant misuse of taxpayer dollars, and the deputy chief executive officer at the u.s. agency for global media is responsible for rehiring the individual that did so. there should be no place for this conduct in public service, and i am requesting the salary of the deputy chief executive officer at u.s. global media to be reduced to $1. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, i rise in strong opposition to this amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, once again, i just have to say how despicable it is to target dedicated public servants and to threaten their livelihoods. the names are going to be dragged, as you know, through the political mud, and that is not fair. these people are public servants. this public servant has had 40 years in the public media. she facilitated getting staff out of afghanistan and has overseen the expansion of usagm's audience to 410 million people. once again, if you have an issue with the policy, let us discuss that. why in the world do you want to continue penalizing public servants who are representing the administrations that they serve and our country, of course, and their dedication to the united states and their careers? mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. burchett. mr. chair, if misusing public federal tax dollars is part of our policy, i suggest to you that we need to get a new policy. [[page h4827]] this is what is wrong with this country. it is wrong when we tell our children, well, it is okay for these folks up here to steal because they are in the federal government. that is why nobody trusts us up here. we can cover this up with flowing words, but the reality is it is wrong to knowingly misuse federal tax dollars. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i will conclude by asking the question again with regard to who is willing to go into public service if their names can be dragged through the political mud, like the other side, the majority, is doing today. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. burchett). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee will be postponed. amendment no. 66 offered by mr. burchett the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 66 printed in part d of house report 118-216. mr. burchett. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. 9002. none of the funds made available by this act may be used for the art in embassies program of the department of state. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 723, the gentleman from tennessee (mr. burchett) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from tennessee. mr. burchett. mr. chairman, this amendment does one thing, it would prohibit funding for the art in embassies program. at a time when the government is nearing a shutdown, we do not need the state department spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on paintings and sculptures. during the shutdown at the end of 2018, the state department spent $84,000 on a bob dylan sculpture. mr. chair, i submit to you, i did not know bob dylan was a sculptor, his real name is bobby zimmerman. he did have a song out when he became a christian for a while that was called ``gotta serve somebody.'' we need to be serving the taxpayers up here, and obviously we are not. we are $33 trillion in debt. the state department can continue its work without expensive art throughout our embassies. the government needs to cut its budget, and there is no better place to start than on unnecessary and high-priced art galleries for the state department. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. {time} 1900 ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to this amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, this amendment would eliminate funding for the art in embassies program. this program, established by president kennedy 60 years ago, recognizes that art is a powerful tool of diplomacy. it offers ambassadors the opportunity to engage other nations in a different type of dialogue and connection. many of the artists featured in this program are homegrown american artists. the bill already includes restrictions and reporting on the art in embassies program to maintain oversight and accountability. this program is a public-private partnership, and eliminating its funding is just ridiculous. let me just mention the shutdown because we are waiting. democrats are not causing this shutdown. to use waiting for a shutdown or about to have a shutdown as an excuse for eliminating funding for the art in embassies program is just downright disingenuous. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. burchett. mr. chair, i submit to you what is disingenuous is the fact that most of this art is never viewed by the public or the people coming in. it is put in the embassy back offices. it is not out front. it does not show anything about this country other than we are hiding this stuff in the back for the well-placed embassy employees, and the rank-and-file ones never even see it. i submit to you this is obviously another boondoggle. we need to start somewhere. this is a good start, mr. chair. i yield back the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from maine (ms. pingree), the distinguished ranking member of the interior, environment, and related agencies subcommittee. ms. pingree. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to this very shortsighted amendment. as the chair of the congressional arts caucus, i strenuously disagree with the idea that this funding is wasteful or nonessential. frankly, i think the amendment demonstrates a real misunderstanding about the nature of diplomacy. the art in embassies program was established 60 years ago by president john f. kennedy. president kennedy knew something important: art is a bridge. it forges connections, and it starts conversation that we may not otherwise be able to have. in addition, it is one of the best ways to reflect our american values, ideals, and our culture abroad. over 20,000 participants globally have taken part in the program, which has presented exceptional works by american and host country artists in over 200 diplomatic properties around the world. it has also engaged over 200 american artists as cultural envoys, participating in workshops, collaborative art projects, and public events, all to strengthen ties with local communities. the program does all of this on a shoestring budget, primarily facilitating donations from artists. it is not a frivolous expense. it is a tool of diplomacy just as valid as any bilateral meeting or negotiation. it reflects our vibrant democracy. i urge members to oppose this amendment. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. burchett). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 67 offered by mr. burchett the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 67 printed in part d of house report 118-216. mr. burchett. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. 9002. none of the funds made available by this act may be used for the special presidential envoy for climate. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 723, the gentleman from tennessee (mr. burchett) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from tennessee. mr. burchett. mr. chair, this amendment does one thing: it prohibits funding for the special presidential envoy for climate. this envoy has provided no discernible value to the american people. i remind you, he is nonelected. i do not believe he was even confirmed by the senate, but secretary kerry uses his position in this special envoy to fly around the world in private and heavy-polluting jets so he can attend the coronation of king charles iii on the taxpayers' dime. somebody please remind me how this is helping the american people or even addressing his climate concerns. i submit to you it is making them worse, according to their statistics and facts. he recently stated the american people would need to contribute trillions of dollars to fix the climate. trillions [[page h4828]] of dollars. mr. chair, this is nonsense. this special envoy should not exist. i am asking to prohibit any funds for it. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, i rise in strong opposition to this amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, climate change has resulted in lives upended in texas and florida and has led to extreme flooding in california, vermont, and throughout the country. these amendments today really give me a lot of angst. it seems like we have so many climate deniers putting forth amendments which really do not believe there is a climate crisis. this crisis poses threats to the stability of countries, heightens social and political tensions. it adversely affects food prices and availability, and this is according to our own military. i will say it again, our own military has said this. the need for foreign assistance will only increase if we do not address this significant driver of crises around the world. no country can solve the climate crisis alone. this requires a multilateral effort. secretary kerry is lending his energy, talents, and experience as he collaborates with other countries to address these concerns. his relationships with foreign leaders are a benefit to the united states and our efforts. again, we should be thanking people who are serving the american people, not demonizing them for it. funding the special presidential envoy and its office is a requirement if we are to protect national security, strengthen the economy, and leave behind a safer planet for our children and our grandchildren. again, if i were a child today, i would be terrified about the future and what it holds for me in terms of whether we will actually have a planet for them to inherit. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. burchett. mr. chair, i submit to you that having a multimillionaire fly around in a private jet does very little for the image of global climate issues. i also submit to you that he has no scientific background. he has not been elected nor has he even been ordained by our u.s. senate. i submit to you that this is not a good issue, and tying the hands of this country while the folks in india, china, and some of these other countries continue to pollute, to me, is counterproductive. mr. chair, i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from florida (mr. diaz-balart), my friend. mr. diaz-balart. mr. chairman, i thank the gentleman for yielding but more importantly for bringing up this very important issue. i think this particular czar, envoy, is really emblematic of a serious issue. here we have a person who travels the world, as the gentleman has mentioned, in jets going to royal coronations, royal weddings, lavish receptions in elite capitals around the world, and then lectures the rest of us and pats himself on the back. i thank the gentleman for bringing this issue up. that is why in this bill we prohibit funding for all special envoys that are not authorized in law or that have not been confirmed by the senate. that eliminates 33 positions and their associated staff. this is potentially the most dramatic example of wasteful spending, of virtue signaling while, frankly, wasting taxpayer money. i commend the gentleman for bringing this to our attention. it is difficult to find a more obvious example of waste than the one that we are dealing with here, so i strongly support the gentleman's amendment, and i also thank him for emphasizing it, for bringing this issue forward. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, let me just say a couple things with respect to secretary kerry. he could be doing other things with his life, quite frankly, yet here he is trying to address this climate emergency, which is real, and he is trying to address this on behalf of our country and for future generations. i really feel very ashamed of what is taking place here on this floor, especially as it relates to our public servants who are really trying to lead, trying to lead not only our country, but lead on a global scale to make sure that we have a planet for our children. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. burchett. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. burchett). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee will be postponed. amendment no. 68 offered by ms. tenney the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 68 printed in part d of house report 118-216. ms. tenney. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. ___. the salary of robert malley, the united states special envoy to iran, shall be reduced to $1. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 723, the gentlewoman from new york (ms. tenney) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from new york. ms. tenney. mr. chair, i rise today to introduce my amendment to reduce the salary of special envoy to iran robert malley to $1. while president biden has made a series of bad political appointments, rob malley, the special envoy, may be one of the worst. before even joining the administration, rob malley had a history of legitimizing organizations like hamas, a u.s.-designated terrorist group. he has blamed israel for palestinian terrorist attacks, and has helped negotiate the disastrous 2015 iran nuclear deal. despite his history, the biden administration appointed mr. malley to be the special envoy to iran. not only did mr. malley tarnish the great work of previous envoys like brian hook and elliott abrams, but malley was working to circumvent u.s. law by striking a deal with iran without first disclosing the contents of this deal to congress. the iran nuclear agreement review act, otherwise known as inara, requires deals with iran must be disclosed to congress, whether in writing or not. however, mr. malley worked for years and, according to some reports, reached an oral agreement with iran, yet still nothing has been disclosed to congress. in june, envoy malley was placed on unpaid leave due to an investigation into mishandling of classified information, which case has been referred to the fbi for criminal investigation and prosecution. was malley handing over state secrets to iran? we still do not know, and the administration is refusing again to update congress. most concerningly, a recent bombshell report revealed that three top aides to malley were part of an iranian government network. that is right, the special envoy to iran's self-appointed top aides were potentially compromised iranian assets. this is beyond incompetent. this could be criminal. it could be treasonous, and it is the very definition of harming u.s. national security. while mr. malley is currently on unpaid leave pending an investigation, he cannot be allowed to return to his post. for that reason, i urge my colleagues to support this amendment. {time} 1915 unfortunately, my co-lead on this, mr. ogles from tennessee, is not able to be here. mr. chair, this amendment is simple. the american people should not be forced to support a top-level government official who surrounded himself with foreign assets from a designated sponsor of terrorism. if you care about u.s. national security, you should support this amendment. if you oppose a corrupt nuclear deal with iran and oppose the despotic iranian mullahs, you should support this amendment. [[page h4829]] if you oppose state sponsors of terrorism having premier access to the u.s. government, then you should support this amendment. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to defund rob malley's salary and make it clear that this house stands against compromised foreign assets. mr. chairman, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, i rise in strong opposition to this amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, once again, let me repeat this. it is really despicable to target dedicated public servants and threaten their livelihoods. in this particular case, the amendment is targeted at someone on leave from the department. none of us have the information to judge the situation. as the state department has said, it is a personnel matter, and it needs to take its course. it is not a matter for congress. again, if my colleagues have an issue with the policy being pursued, then let us discuss that. we should not penalize public servants who are representing the administration that they serve and who have dedicated their careers to the united states. let me just remind you that the iran nuclear deal did stop the enrichment of uranium in iran, and the world, quite frankly, is less safe because of the previous president who pulled the united states out of the jcpoa. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from new york (ms. tenney). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 69 offered by ms. tenney the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 69 printed in part d of house report 118-216. ms. tenney. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be used to move the united states embassy in israel to a location other than jerusalem. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 723, the gentlewoman from new york (ms. tenney) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from new york. ms. tenney. mr. chair, i rise in support of my amendment to prohibit any federal funds to be used to move the u.s. embassy in israel out of jerusalem. in october 1995, congress passed the jerusalem embassy act. this bill passed this chamber by a vote of 374-27 and passed the senate by a vote of 93-5. that is overwhelming. members spanning the political spectrum from speaker gingrich to senator john kerry voted for this bill requiring the president to move the u.s. embassy to its rightful capital in jerusalem. however, presidents clinton, bush, and obama waived this provision every 6 months, often claiming that such a move would jeopardize the peace process between the israelis and the palestinians. this did nothing to support the peace process, as palestinian terrorism continued to target israeli citizens. finally, in 2018, president trump fully implemented this law and moved our u.s. embassy in israel to jerusalem, the undisputed capital of the state of israel. while some of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle expressed opposition to this move, it would be ludicrous to have our embassy outside the capital of one of our greatest allies. the fact of the matter is that we cannot go back. we cannot allow the biden administration to move the embassy out of jerusalem again. this amendment should not be controversial. again, this was originally passed in 1995 on an overwhelmingly bipartisan basis. mr. chair, i urge all of my colleagues to support this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, i rise in opposition to this amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, this amendment would prohibit funds to move the united states embassy in israel out of jerusalem. the previous administration made the decision for the united states embassy to be located in jerusalem, and that decision is in effect. let us not change our focus on keeping the government open on october 1 by taking time to debate matters that really are not issues. these matters are not open. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. tenney. mr. chair, at this time, when israel faces some of its greatest threats such as iran and palestinian terrorism, we must stand resolute with our greatest ally in the middle east, israel. any attempts to relocate the u.s. embassy in jerusalem would delegitimize israel's sovereignty and would be counterproductive to encouraging peace negotiations. any theoretical negotiation with the palestinians must revolve around the fact that jerusalem is the undisputed capital of israel and has been since ancient times. some of my colleagues have argued that this amendment is unnecessary since president biden does not intend to move the embassy. if that is the case, then my colleagues should have no problem voting for this amendment. mr. chair, i urge all of my colleagues to stand with israel, our greatest ally in the middle east, and support this amendment. mr. chairman, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, once again, this is a total waste of time. we are trying to keep the government open so that people's lives will not be disrupted. i do not know why we are doing this, but i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment and to focus on keeping this government open, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from new york (ms. tenney). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. tenney. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from new york will be postponed. amendment no. 70 offered by mr. roy the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 70 printed in part d of house report 118-216. mr. roy. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title) insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds appropriated by this act may be used to implement any of the following executive orders: (1) executive order 13990, relating to protecting public health and the environment and restoring science to tackle the climate crisis. (2) executive order 14008, relating to tackling the climate crisis at home and abroad. (3) section 6 of executive order 14013, relating to rebuilding and enhancing programs to resettle refugees and planning for the impact of climate change on migration. (4) executive order 14030, relating to climate-related financial risk. (5) executive order 14057, relating to catalyzing clean energy industries and jobs through federal sustainability. (6) executive order 14082, relating to implementation of the energy and infrastructure provisions of the inflation reduction act of 2022. (7) executive order 14096, relating to revitalizing our nation's commitment to environmental justice for all. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 723, the gentleman from texas (mr. roy) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from texas. mr. roy. mr. chairman, i thank my friend from florida for all of his work on this legislation and the underlying bill. [[page h4830]] i offer an amendment that would prohibit any of the funding made available in the state, foreign operations, and related programs appropriations act from being used to carry out president biden's executive orders on climate change. now, i do want to pause for a minute before i describe my amendment to thank the gentlewoman for our work together in trying to address ongoing authorizations for use of military force that have long since come and gone and that congress needs to ax. congress needs to dispense with the 2002 and 1991 aumfs that no longer, i think, are relevant, and i appreciate working with the gentlewoman to that end. i hope we will see some movement on that at some point and would ask leadership, at least on this side of the aisle, to follow through and bring a vote forward. the senate has dispensed with `02 and `91, and we need to address them here. i would note, in response to the gentlewoman with respect to what she said to my colleague from new york about averting a shutdown and what we are doing here, what we are doing here is trying to move bills through regular order. now, i have conceded that i wish this were july or august or earlier in september, but we are, in fact, doing our job. only four times in 50 years--and i am 51 years old, so four times in my lifetime--have we managed to move 12 appropriations bills through on time. that is absurd. we are not going to do it this time. we are not going to get 12 bills through on time, but what we are trying to do is restore muscle memory in this place to actually do our job of getting appropriations bills out of committee, onto the floor, debated, passed, sent to conference committee, and do our work of actually legislating. it is an important thing, and we should do it. again, i would have done it earlier, but here we are. we ought to finish the job. if we do our job, and we do our job tonight, hopefully, the house will have moved legislation that will fund upward of 73 percent of government. that is a good thing. we can move forward with figuring out how to get the rest of our work done. we can have a debate. if there is any kind of a shutdown, i want my constituents and the rest of the american people to understand that it is because the president of the united states and the senate majority leader, a democrat, are choosing to shut down government rather than shut down an open border that is damaging the united states, undermining our security, endangering our citizens, endangering migrants, empowering cartels, and empowering china, rather than doing their job. mr. chairman, 304,000 encounters in august, 11,000 in eagle pass 2 nights ago, thousands of americans dying from fentanyl poisoning. they say, okay, well, why bring up amendments? because we are trying to move forward this bill, which deals with state and foreign operations, and we have an administration that while also ignoring securing the border is using the state department and all the functions of government to advance a radical climate agenda that is undermining our national security and empowering our enemies, empowering china by pursuing more technology that is created by china rather than advancing things like american natural gas. i believe it is important, and i am offering this amendment to say let us not have funding to carry out the executive orders of the president that are marching forward on things like empowering john kerry to jet set around the world, to go around saying, oh, let us go combat climate change while i fly in my fancy jet. meanwhile, india and china are pumping out coal faster than we can even talk about it. there are 1,100 coal-fired plants in china. they are building two a week. we think somehow that we are going to convert our entire internal combustion engine fleet of cars in this country to evs and solve the problem when, in fact, it will, at most, dent co 2 by about a percentage point. let us get real. let us have policies that actually advance the cause of america. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, i rise in strong opposition to this amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, president biden's executive orders on climate change were issued to ensure the united states' focus on the climate crisis remains front and center. this is a climate emergency. it is clear from the science that the most existential crisis the world faces is from the growing climate crisis. without intervention, our warming planet will continue to have negative impacts on our country and throughout the world. climate-related foreign assistance can help developing countries adapt to the impacts of climate change, such as rising sea levels, droughts, and floods, and build an energy grid that is constructed for the next century, not the last one. this is not something we can wait to worry about. this is an emergency, mr. chairman. rising coastlines and hazardous temperatures mean that there are countries that might literally not exist in a generation because of the changes that are already happening. once again, i was in egypt at the cop27 conference. this is all we heard about. this is an emergency. let me just say: the need for foreign assistance will only increase, and my colleagues know this, if we do not address the changes that we are seeing in the climate now. yes, to my friend and colleague, every now and then there are glimmers of hope on bipartisanship. i enjoy working with you and hope that we can get the repeal of these aumfs to the floor, but let me just say we have to find where we can find common ground, and we are working to do that here in this body. when it comes to shutting down the government, the president is not trying to shut down the government. i mean, every single hour there is a change in the goalpost from your side, not from our side. we just want to keep the government open so that people's lives will not be impacted. we are trying to figure it out, but we have to have a partner in trying to figure it out. hopefully, we will be able to pass a continuing resolution until we can get this resolved, hopefully, in a bipartisan manner. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. roy. mr. chair, my democratic colleagues claim they are saving the world by pursuing renewable energy. they always neglect to mention the important part. the congo produces 70 percent of the world's cobalt, a key component of the ev batteries they promote. these mines are powered by what npr, that bastion of conservatism, described as modern-day slavery. let us stop this foolishness. let us focus on putting america first, and let us make sure we end president biden's executive orders. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman, finally, let me just say our young people are watching. our young people are relying on us to address this emergency in a way that is going to make sure that they have a planet to live on when they grow up. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. {time} 1930 the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from texas (mr. roy). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from texas will be postponed. amendment no. 71 offered by mr. davidson the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 71 printed in part d of house report 118-216. mr. davidson. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: [[page h4831]] at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. ___. the salary of victoria nuland, acting united states deputy secretary of state and under secretary for political affairs, shall be reduced to $1. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 723, the gentleman from ohio (mr. davidson) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from ohio. mr. davidson. mr. chairman, this amendment would reduce the salary of victoria nuland to $1. she is currently the acting u.s. deputy secretary of state and the under secretary of state for political affairs. presidents have come and gone. victoria nuland remains at the state department. she last served in four administrations as a pillar of the state department. normally, such a long period of service would be marked with gratitude, so why propose to effectively remove her? president eisenhower cautioned us about people like victoria nuland who would put their own interest at odds with america's interests. we have come to call them endless wars or an ``america last'' foreign policy, but eisenhower called it the ``military-industrial complex.'' she is exhibit a on how america could actually get in fewer wars if we cleaned house at the state department and had a more focused foreign policy. officially, the state department is supposed to promote america's interests. if anyone at the state department has represented the neoconservative consensus that has left america less free, less safe, and more burdened by debt over this last generation, it is secretary nuland. she hangs the american people out to dry while escalating tensions and pushing through regime change everywhere she can find an opportunity. from 2003 to 2005, nuland served as the principal deputy foreign policy adviser to vice president dick cheney. she championed the iraq war and created the case for regime change and nation-building, though the official threat was weapons of mass destruction and ties to terrorism. from 2005 to 2008, during president bush's second term, nuland served as u.s. ambassador to nato where she concentrated on strengthening allied support for nato intervention in iraq, dramatically expanding the scope of nato. in 2011, nuland became the state department's spokesperson under hillary clinton. yet again, she cheered for another regime change, this time in libya. her campaign led to toppling the government, the murder of muammar gaddafi and an enormous and ongoing refugee crisis, frankly one that continues out of iraq, as well. similar to the effects in iraq, this intervention turned a once- stable libya into a failed terrorist state. what was nuland and the uniparty's response? well, in the words of hillary clinton, ``we came. we saw. he died.'' they left out the part about chaos and instability. rather than a solution to create and promote peace, they have promoted chaos and disorder. immediately after, her newest narrative to justify, a regime change in syria began. we still have u.s. troops in syria, though that is a more effective way to fight isis than the way we fought for nation-building in iraq. in 2013, nuland was sworn in as assistant secretary of state for european and eurasian affairs. while she could not get brigades of armor deployed to syria like she did in iraq, she swiftly started destabilizing things in ukraine. she used this position to meddle in ukraine's elections, manage violent protests on the ground, facilitate a coup, and in addition, she began to campaign for nato expansion. in 2017, nuland played an active role in spreading actual disinformation via the steele dossier, whose claims had no factual basis. nuland has never been held responsible for any of these actions. instead she has been elevated as the face of washington's uniparty foreign policy agenda. wherever she goes, war follows. sadly, those wars have been in conflict with america's national security interest. she spent her time in the biden administration as an avid supporter for regime change in russia. in addition, she has been vocal about her desire to transform nato into an offensive treaty that projects power around the world. her actions have yielded disastrous results for the american people, and it is far beyond time that she is held accountable. this amendment is a great place to start. i urge my colleagues to support it, and i urge the biden administration to part ways with secretary nuland. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i rise in strong opposition to this amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, ambassador nuland has proudly represented the united states for 33 years and has been confirmed by the senate several times. mr. chair, if i were about to make a decision about my career, what i am hearing today would be really upsetting. i definitely would not make a decision to go into the foreign service, because my whole life could be destroyed if i made that decision. it is really despicable that we are targeting public servants, threatening their livelihoods, and really making these amendments a disincentive for people of great talent to serve our country abroad. it is really a shame and disgrace. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. davidson. mr. chair, i appreciate my colleague's comments. frankly, i hope that is the message that is received. if you came to serve the united states government to advance your own interests instead of the nation's, i hope you choose not to go into the foreign service. that is exactly the message i want to send to victoria nuland and everyone else in the state department. frankly, i hope we go far beyond this and eliminate whole sections and floors of the current staff there. this amendment is a start, not a finish line. mr. chair, i urge all of my colleagues to support the amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from ohio (mr. davidson). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from ohio will be postponed. mr. diaz-balart. mr. chairman, as the designee of the gentlewoman from texas (ms. granger), i move to strike the last word. the acting chair. the gentleman from florida is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. diaz-balart. mr. chairman, i rise to discuss a very serious concern about the lack of cooperation from the government of the bahamas. it is something that concerns me and congressman graves, my colleague from louisiana. i greatly appreciate the gentleman's concern and his impassioned and relentless search for answers that unfortunately still remain after a horrific tragedy that happened to one of his constituents. obviously, i share his concerns, and i am grateful that he is standing up. i am prepared to work with him so that we get the answers that he deserves, that his constituents deserve, and that all of us are entitled to. again, i thank him for bringing this very important issue to the attention of the house. this is something we will continue to pursue. mr. chair, i yield to the gentleman from louisiana (mr. graves). mr. graves of louisiana. mr. chairman, i start by thanking my friend, chairman diaz-balart for his hard work on state and foreign operations appropriations legislation. i know he and his staff have worked tirelessly over the last several months to get this bill in the position it is in now, and i thank them for their hard work on this. mr. chairman, earlier this year, may 24, my constituent, cameron robbins-- [[page h4832]] along with probably hundreds of other high school graduates from the baton rouge area--went on a trip to the bahamas to celebrate his high school graduation. tragically, cameron went overboard on a sunset cruise a few hours after arriving. mr. chair, i think we got the first call around midnight. we were on the phone until 4 a.m., working, literally overnight, waking up admirals and captains and all kinds of folks from the united states coast guard, and working with the royal bahamas defence force to ensure there were appropriate search-and-rescue efforts to find cameron. regrettably, mr. chairman, despite the efforts of the united states coast guard and the royal bahamas defence force, cameron's body was never found. you can imagine the tragic impact on the family, on the students, and on the entire community. mr. chairman, the bahamian government is our friend. we are allies. we are obviously very close, and we have close economic relationships. the police in the bahamas conducted a very extensive investigation. they interviewed students who were nearby to find out what happened. they interviewed the captain of the vessel; interviewed everyone who was involved. mr. chairman, you can imagine the family at this point. we simply asked: could you please just share your investigation report? that is it. just share the investigation report. the family just wants to learn as much as they can about this tragedy. i am going to say it again, mr. chairman: cameron's body was never recovered. unfortunately, the bahamian government and the royal bahamas police force have not provided anything, have not provided any answers. we sent our coast guard over to do search-and-rescue missions. we had surface ships, we had helos, we had aircraft over there. the bahamian government has provided nothing. they have been totally unresponsive. they have not responded to me, and they have not responded to the state department. mr. chairman, i include in the record a letter to prime minister davis of the bahamas. congress of the united states, house of representatives, washington, dc, september 4, 2023. hon. philip e.b. davis, prime minister of the bahamas, harold degregory complex, freeport, grand bahama. dear mr. prime minister: your direct help is needed to acquire the police report on cameron crossley robbins (dob 1/ 11/2004), a united states citizen who went missing off paradise island on 24/5/2023. mr. robbins and his family are constituents who i represent. while on a boating excursion aboard the pirates revenge an accident ensued that caused cameron robbins to go missing. we are aware that the royal bahamas police force interviewed most of the passengers and crew of the pirates revenge, among others. we believe the royal bahamas police force and the royal bahamas defence force have comprehensive, helpful information regarding the incident. as you may know, the royal bahamas defence force initiated search and rescue efforts, then quickly requested the support of the united states coast guard to lead the search and rescue, which they did for three days until the royal bahamas defence force called off the search. the united states coast guard has provided us all the information they have gathered regarding the incident and search. we believe the royal bahamas police force has the authority to share their report with the robbins family, and we therefore respectfully request that you do everything in your power to help provide the family with the police report. i am sure you agree that it is inconceivable how any of this information should remain inaccessible to the family. thank you in advance for your courtesy and cooperation. it is greatly appreciated. sincerely, garret graves, member of congress. mr. graves of louisiana. mr. chairman, i do have an amendment that would restrict funds for the bahamian government contingent upon their cooperation of simply sharing information and discussing this with the chairman and the ranking member of the state, foreign operations, and related programs subcommittee. mr. chair, i will not offer that amendment right now, but i would ask the chairman and the ranking member to please work with us on this matter. i will say it again. the bahamian government is our friend. they are our allies. however, this is a tragic situation. i would ask the chairman to put himself in the place of the parents, and work with us to help us get the information that the family is looking for. mr. diaz-balart. mr. chair, i again thank the gentleman for bringing this forward. it is important that everyone realizes that we are going to continue to work on this. there needs to be transparency and we need to get answers. the gentleman has my commitment that i will do everything and anything that i can to work with him to get those answers and to make sure that the family of this american who was lost much too soon understands that everything has been done to get those answers. mr. chairman, i thank the gentleman for bringing this to the floor, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the chair understands that amendment no. 72 will not be offered. amendment no. 73 offered by mr. steube the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 73 printed in part d of house report 118-216. mr. steube. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), add the following: sec. _. none of the funds made available by this act may be used to provide assistance to the united nations educational, scientific and cultural organization (unesco). the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 723, the gentleman from florida (mr. steube) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from florida. mr. steube. mr. chairman, the united nations educational, scientific, and cultural organization, also known as unesco, is incredibly corrupt and mismanaged. this organization has a long history of anti-american bias and anti- israel bias. they have even honored countries like china that consistently violate human rights. my amendment ensures that no taxpayer dollars go towards funding unesco. we must ensure that funds appropriated by this congress are used in the interest of the american people. why on earth would we give american taxpayer dollars to organizations that hate america and favor our adversaries? president trump was right to remove our country's membership in unesco. it is unconscionable that the biden administration has chosen to rejoin unesco and, with that, pay over $600 million in back dues. funding unesco is the opposite of america first. this congress should not provide a single dollar to organizations that seek to disparage america and their allies. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i rise in strong opposition to this amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. lee of california. mr. chairman the united states once again became a proud member of unesco this past july. this decision was a huge achievement. it involved several years of negotiation, and it absolutely is in the united states' interest, something only the united states should be able to decide. {time} 1945 it is wrong to let another party make that decision for us. debates currently at unesco range from protection of world heritage sites to the evolution of artificial intelligence to the responsibility of nations to respect media freedoms to the equitable access to education, and importantly, the toll of the holocaust. the united states should be part of these discussions, making sure that our values are reflected. we are fighting for our values. already since we rejoined in july, we have been able to successfully advocate for the direct participation of israel in a recent meeting in saudi arabia--a diplomatic achievement in everyone's interest. [[page h4833]] participation in international institutions like unesco are in the best interest of the united states of america. i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. steube. mr. chair, we need to put america first. we need to fix the spending problem that we have here in washington. we have $33 trillion in debt. when i was first elected to congress only 5 years ago, we had $21 trillion in debt; now we have $33 trillion in debt. we are running a $2 trillion deficit every single year to give money to an organization that is anti-american and anti-israel. it is not putting america first. it is not putting the taxpayers' dollars to good use in this country. mr. chair, i ask members to support my amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, putting america first actually means our relationships throughout the world in terms of what we invest in and how we raise our concerns and our values and what we do to bring the world together in peace and security. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from florida (mr. steube). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from florida will be postponed. amendment no. 74 offered by mr. perry the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 74 printed in part d of house report 118-216. mr. perry. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available for the united nations relief and works agency. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 723, the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. perry) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from pennsylvania. mr. perry. mr. chair, let me say from the outset that i certainly appreciate that the bill's drafters prohibit assessed contributions to the united nations relief and works agency, also known as unrwa. now, that is a nice-sounding name. unfortunately, what the organization does is not so nice. this amendment applies a bill-wide prohibition on making any ``funds appropriated to otherwise made available by this act'' for unrwa. the issues with unrwa have been well established and well known in this town and around the globe. they effectively turned a blind eye to terrorists storing weapons at their facilities in 2014 and hired staff with ties to terrorist organizations. further, and almost maybe even more disturbing, the curriculum of unrwa's schools, which uses the textbooks of the host government or authorities, has long contained materials that are anti-american, anti- israel, anti-semitic, and supportive of violence--direct violence. it just cannot be understated, and that is not histrionic. that is not hyperbole. that is what it is. as recently as 2022, watchdog organizations found that unrwa educational material still contains anti-semitic and otherwise objectionable material even though it has been brought up time and time again. yet we keep paying for it, and they keep doing it because they do not care. why would they care? we keep paying for it. not one more dime of our taxpayer money should go toward an agency that has continuously promoted hatred toward this country, toward our taxpayers, toward the things we believe in, and toward our allies--in particular israel. i absolutely urge support of this amendment. i do not quite honestly understand why we have to do this. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i rise in strong opposition to this amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, stripping palestinians of food, housing, healthcare, education, and opportunities to strengthen their livelihoods only threatens to ignite further unrest, instability, and distress. such a cutoff would not only affect the west bank in gaza, but lebanon, syria and jordan, as well. now, along with our ranking member delauro, i have visited unrwa schools, and i can tell you that these young people are grateful to america for our support. yes, our absence, of course, invites other countries. i want these young people to remember who supports them and who is looking out for them. this bill already puts oversight and accountability requirements on unrwa before funding can be made available. a total suspension of aid would make it much harder for unrwa to make sure that these controls are in place and to do proper monitoring, while at the same time cutting off essential services to the palestinian people that currently are only provided by unrwa. this is morally wrong. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. perry. mr. chair, oversight. i am sure there is always oversight. there is going to be oversight again with this bill and the next bill and with the authorization, the state department authorization. the oversight and accountability have not gleaned any results. i have been in the hearings. i have seen the textbooks. i am sure the gentlewoman from the other side has seen them, as well. as long as we keep paying, they are going to keep doing it. we can provide all the oversight we want to, but no one is going to be held accountable. you know how i know that? because they have been doing it, and no one has been held accountable. i am sure they are grateful. i am sure the students are grateful to receive the textbooks. i am sure the population is grateful to receive our money as they thumb their nose at us and do things that are antithetical to every single person in this country that is paying the bill. it is long past time that we say enough. if you are not going to respect and appreciate what we give you appropriately, then we are not going to give it to you until you can get your act together and stop espousing violence to the very people--biting the hand that feeds you. that is what it is. it is biting the hand that feeds you, mr. chair. until they are willing to do that, there is only one way to send a message--and that is to quit funding our own demise. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. a couple of facts. one, unrwa reviews all host country textbooks used in its schools to ensure consistency with the united nations' positions, educational appropriateness, and unesco standards. secondly, unrwa has a zero tolerance policy with regard to staff neutrality violations and takes all such violations seriously, including those raised by organizations. investigations are launched with involved staff members placed on administrative leave pending investigation. where allegations are found to be true and, thus, contrary to unrwa's regulations and rules, appropriate disciplinary measures are imposed up to and including dismissal. like any other organization which we provide resources to, unrwa has accountability mechanisms in place and, in fact, follows up with regard to any charges that the gentleman has raised. the damage that is going to be done through this amendment is a damage that is really damaging, first of all, to the children who benefit from unrwa investments from this country, but it is also damaging to our leadership as it relates to being a real leader in terms of our efforts to seek global peace and [[page h4834]] security. that is what this bill really should be about. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. perry. mr. chair, let me just tell you what i think is damaging to our leadership: having our allies see us pay with our hard-earned tax dollars for their adversaries to promote violence toward them. i think that is damaging. if i were those allies, i would be questioning how that is helpful. now, i am glad that my colleague brought up the fact that the textbooks are checked and that we should know what is in them and there are constant reviews and so on and so forth. mr. chair, we cannot trust the textbooks in our schools in our own towns in this country. you think we know what is going on in the middle east with the money we are paying for theirs? i suggest we do not. as far as consistency and educational appropriateness, let me remind everybody, this is the same organization that pays stipends for people that go kill jews and americans. they pay stipends for that. so, of course, it is culturally appropriate. it is educationally appropriate. it is consistent. it is consistent with their message of hatred, and we are paying for it, and that is why we should end this now. mr. chair, i urge adoption of the amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. carson. mr. chair, i rise today in opposition of the perry amendment no. 74, which prohibits any funds from being made available for the united nations relief and works agency (unrwa) through the fy 24 appropriations for the department of state, foreign operations, and related programs (sfops). the subcommittee for state and foreign operations has, in a bipartisan manner, supported the biden administration's decision to reengage with the united nations relief and works agency (unrwa), including its inclusion in the fiscal year 2023 bill of additional funding from previous years for food assistance to refugees in the west bank and gaza. it is imperative that we put aside political agendas and instead make policy-based decisions that benefit our national security and humanitarian core values. like other reengagements with the united nations (un) system, the department of state's strategic partnership with unrwa is clearly demonstrating the benefits of u.s. financial support. earlier this year, ambassador thomas-greenfield told un security council members, ``at this moment of heightened tensions, we must be sure to support unrwa, which serves as a lifeline to palestinians and plays an important stabilizing role in the region.'' four out of the agency's five fields of operation are in crisis: ranging from the aftermaths of a terrible natural disaster, a seriously deteriorating security situation, and unprecedented financial and economic collapse. continuing unrwa's life-saving humanitarian and human development mission on behalf of palestinian refugees requires more, not less u.s. support. this cruel amendment deprives innocent people of food, healthcare, and education. it robs refugees of any hope for a better life for them and their children. unfortunately, mr. chair, when i make the argument for palestinian existence and basic human rights, it is sadly not compelling enough for some members, so let me also make the case from a national security perspective. this amendment undermines our national security--not only for palestinian stability, but also israeli stability in the region. let us think gaza: how is israel safer if we choose to deliberately starve palestinians or deny them healthcare? how is israel safer when 300,000 girls and boys are no longer in school? ending the unrwa mission in gaza alone will result in recruitment by extremist groups among gaza youth, who are already facing 70 percent unemployment. this is not a good amendment from any standpoint and for any party. let us think lebanon: unrwa educates 40,000 lebanese girls and boys, its health system has almost 600,000 annual patient visits, and it aids the most desperately poor, living in a place where people give serious consideration to crossing the mediterranean despite knowing the chances of surviving the trip are, at best, a coin flip. let us think jordan: our other ally, the hashemite kingdom of jordan, which is comprised of approximately 50 percent palestinian jordanians, strongly supports the unrwa mission and has taken a leadership role in trying to stabilize unrwa's long-term financial situation. finally let us think israel itself: israeli security officials recently told the international crisis group that ``unrwa's demise and the corresponding collapse in services would wreak havoc in the west bank and gaza, or--just as importantly for israeli interests--in jordan and lebanon, presenting israel with unprecedented new security challenges.'' earlier this month, i led, with senator sanders, a bicameral letter signed by over 50 members of congress and senators to ranking member risch, calling for the release of his individual hold on previously appropriated and enacted funds to unrwa for fy23. this abuse of congressional courtesy is unacceptable; no one senator or member should be able to indefinitely hold monies that we as a body have voted to appropriate. i not only call for an increase of funds to unrwa for fy24, i strongly oppose the perry no. 74 amendment, and i call on my colleague in the senate to release the fy23 funds immediately. the far-right attack on unrwa is not evidence based. instead, it will cause more instability. the united states, as a nation of refugees and immigrants, should be leading by example, and not voting to cruelly cut off desperately needed humanitarian assistance that unrwa provides. i urge all my colleagues to vote against this dangerous proposal. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. perry). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from pennsylvania will be postponed. the acting chair. the chair understands that amendment 75 will not be offered. amendment no. 76 offered by mr. ogles the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 76 printed in part d of house report 118-216. mr. ogles. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available in contravention of the notice entitled ``in the matter of the designation of the islamic revolutionary guard corps (and other aliases) as a foreign terrorist organization'' issued by the department of state on april 15, 2019 (84 fed. reg. 15278). the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 723, the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from tennessee. mr. ogles. mr. chair, april 15, 2019, under the leadership of president trump, the islamic revolutionary guard corps was designated a foreign terrorist organization. that is important because the irgc is guilty of killing and injuring thousands of americans. they maintain the largest inventory of ballistic missiles in the region. they have developed a range of unmanned aerial vehicles, uavs. they support terrorists in yemen like hezbollah and hamas, oftentimes in violation of international sanctions. they wield considerable influence on the government of iraq and frequently threaten the very existence of our ally and our partner, the state of israel, like they did earlier this month. the president of iran just used the u.n. general assembly as a backdrop for calling for the assassination of an american citizen or american citizens and cited the elimination of soleimani, the former head of the irgc, as justification. iran will employ all tools and capacities in order to bring justice, they said, to the perpetrator and all those who had a hand in soleimani's killing. these are the words of an enemy, and we should spend no funds in overturning that designation. this should be a bipartisan bill. it should have a vote. mr. chair, i urge adoption of this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. diaz-balart. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition, although i am not opposed to the amendment. the acting chair. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from florida? there was no objection. the acting chair. the gentleman from florida is recognized for 5 minutes. [[page h4835]] mr. diaz-balart. mr. chair, i rise in strong support of this amendment, which would prohibit funds, as the gentleman said, to delist the iranian revolutionary guard corps as a foreign terrorist organization, very simply. i would note that section 7041 in our bill contains substantially the same limitation, one of several provisions designed to counter iran's nuclear program and its terrorist activities around the globe. {time} 2000 in addition, the bill provides funding to enforce a future agreement, any future agreement, related to the nuclear program of iran until such an agreement is submitted to congress and receives the advice and consent of the senate. it is not that complicated. let us be clear. with the administration's just recent decision to waive sanctions and facilitate a transfer of $6 billion to fund the mullahs in iran, the world's top state sponsor of terrorism, this debate, this issue, could not come at a more timely moment. i applaud the gentleman for bringing this issue. it is an issue that all of us should be on the same side on, as he mentioned, because we have to continue to counter iran. mr. chair, i strongly urge the support of this timely and important amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. ogles. mr. chair, i support the chairman, and i want to put a finer point on it. in front of the u.n. general assembly, and i continue, they will ``not rest until that is done,'' that being death to americans. ``the blood of the oppressed will not be forgotten, and the ropes of the guilty will bring them to justice.'' these folks intend to kill americans. these folks intend to topple and attack our ally, which is israel, and i will not stand for it. i stand before you, mr. chair, and ask adoption of this amendment. i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle--this should not be a partisan issue. we are talking about the lives of americans. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. ogles. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee will be postponed. amendment no. 77 offered by mr. massie the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 77 printed in part d of house report 118-216. mr. massie. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), add the following: sec. _. none of the funds made available by this act may be used to transfer cluster munitions to any foreign country. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 723, the gentleman from kentucky (mr. massie) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from kentucky. mr. massie. mr. chair, i rise in support of this bipartisan amendment. this amendment is very simple. it states that: ``none of the funds made available by this act may be used to transfer cluster munitions to any foreign country.'' mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. diaz-balart. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentleman from florida is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. diaz-balart. mr. chair, i respectfully rise in opposition to the amendment, which would impose a blanket prohibition on the transfer of cluster munitions to any ally or partner abroad. although the bill contains a longstanding limitation on the use abroad of u.s. cluster munitions, it does permit the transfer of these weapons where the dud rate is 1 percent or less. the bill also allows the transfer of related assistance where the purpose is for demilitarization or permanently disposing of such munitions. this amendment, however, goes beyond the restrictions in this bill. it would ban the transfer of those weapons to any foreign partner under any circumstances, whether to respond to a conflict potentially in the korean peninsula, to support taiwan, or in the event of a communist chinese invasion or other unforeseen potential issues. i say this respectfully: it would, i think, unwisely tie the hands of our military in any potential future conflict. for those reasons, i respectfully urge defeat of this amendment. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. massie. mr. chair, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from california (ms. lee), my friend on the other side of the aisle. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i rise in support of my colleague's amendment, and i thank representatives massie and mcgovern for offering it. cluster bombs are some of the most inhumane weapons on earth. the united states should not use or stockpile these weapons, and we certainly should not be transferring them to any other nation. cluster bombs undermine our efforts to promote human rights and dignity everywhere. at a time when we are trying to mobilize the world in defense of human dignity in ukraine, our cause is undermined by the continued existence of these weapons in the united states' arsenal. cluster munitions leave bomblets spread over an indiscriminate area, often lying undetonated for generations. unexploded cluster munitions have maimed or killed countless civilians over the last few decades, including an outrageous number of children. we are still spending millions of dollars to clean up cluster munitions used in southeast asia decades ago. we cannot be complicit in their further spread. nearly 125 countries have banned their use by signing onto the united nations convention on cluster munitions. for years, this bill, the sfops bill, has carried language severely limiting their transfer to other countries. the acting chair. the time of the gentlewoman has expired. mr. massie. mr. chair, i yield an additional 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from california. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, let me reiterate that nearly 125 countries have banned their use by signing onto the united states convention on cluster munitions. for years, the sfops bill, our bill, has carried language severely limiting their transfer to other countries, but this has not proven to be enough. a complete ban is overdue, and i am proud to support this amendment. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support it. mr. massie. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. diaz-balart. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. massie. mr. chair, i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from nevada (ms. titus), my friend on the other side of the aisle. ms. titus. mr. chair, i join my colleagues in support of this vital amendment to avert more widespread harm to civilians in areas contaminated by unexploded ordnance. we should ban these cluster bombs and the transfer of them to other countries. thousands of communities across southeast asia, the caucasus, and eastern europe face lingering dangers from landmines and explosive remnants of war dating back to world war ii, the vietnam war, and the indochina wars. many pacific island nations are still contaminated by unexploded ordnance following world war ii battles between japan and the allied forces. cluster munitions have continued to be lethal decades after they were originally deployed. laos, the most heavily bombed country per capita in history, has suffered an estimated 50,000 civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war since 1964. cambodia and vietnam have seen over 64,000 and 105,000 casualties since 1975, respectively. if you have visited these countries, you may have encountered little musical groups on the streets of the victims [[page h4836]] of these cluster bombs. as you heard, what is really tragic is about two-thirds of those who are injured or killed are children. the land in ukraine that has been contaminated by explosive ordnance has increased tenfold and now takes up 30 percent of the country, representing an area the size of florida or twice the size of the entire country of portugal. there is a reason why a vast majority of the international community, our allies, have banned cluster bombs. it is time for the u.s. to follow suit. mr. chair, i am pleased to support this amendment, and i thank my colleagues for bringing it. mr. massie. mr. chair, over the past year, our country has been engaged in a proxy war with russia. we are on a path to a hot war where we will be directly involved if we do not change that path now. it is shortsighted to use cluster bombs there, to transfer those munitions. it will represent an escalation in the war that could draw us further into that conflict. i agree with my colleagues on the other side of the aisle. it is a good idea not to transfer these to any other country. now, some have said to me, on previous amendments here on the floor, that they think we should not be limiting our military. i want to be clear. this amendment does not limit our own military. what it says is we will not transfer these munitions to other countries. i think that is wise, and it is the prudent thing to do. we should not be providing them to any other country, certainly not under the guise of world peace, because they last, as my colleagues have said, for years and years in many cases. mr. chair, i urge adoption of this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from kentucky (mr. massie). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. diaz-balart. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from kentucky will be postponed. amendment no. 78 offered by mr. burgess the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 78 printed in part d of house report 118-216. mr. burgess. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. the total amounts appropriated or otherwise made available by this act for providing foreign assistance to the following countries are hereby reduced as follows: (1) for guatemala, by $908,773,200. (2) for honduras, by $560,732,400. (3) for el salvador, by $251,362,800. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 723, the gentleman from texas (mr. burgess) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from texas. mr. burgess. mr. chair, i want to speak in support of my amendment to h.r. 4665, the department of state, foreign operations, and related programs appropriations act, 2024. this amendment would reduce foreign assistance to three central american countries based on the number of unaccompanied children from each of those countries that were referred to the office of refugee resettlement custody in the previous year. mr. chair, for the last 5 fiscal years, the united states has provided more than $3 billion of foreign assistance for central american countries. for fiscal year 2022, the department of homeland security referred almost 130,000 unaccompanied children to the office of refugee resettlement. forty-seven percent of those children were from guatemala, 29 percent from honduras, and 13 percent from el salvador. eleven percent were from other countries. on average, providing care for an unaccompanied alien child costs the office of refugee resettlement $500 per day, with the average length of stay in orr custody being 30 days. this means the average total cost of care for an unaccompanied alien child in orr custody in fiscal year 2022 was $15,000 per child. in aggregate, it was nearly $2 billion to take care of these unaccompanied alien children. mr. chair, this is a crisis that only continues to get worse in 2023 because of the very dangerous and volatile open border policies of this administration. we know the deal in washington. if you want to make something important to someone, you make it about their money. i want these countries of origin to take better care of their citizens so that they do not undertake the dangerous irregular migration to this country. for 5 years, i have tried to push this point, and those countries have done nothing to make it less likely that a child will undertake that dangerous path to come to the united states with irregular immigration. passing this amendment sends a very strong message. we need to incentivize these countries to better serve their children and better serve their future. this amendment will provide a real, tangible, monetary incentive to those countries to combat factors that are driving irregular migration. mr. chair, i urge everyone to vote for this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to this amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. lee of california. mr. chair, i cannot even imagine the dire straits that would lead me to send my child on their own on a perilous journey to face an uncertain situation at the united states border. no one does that willingly or without exhausting every other alternative. i have been to the border many times. i was born and raised in el paso, texas, a border town. i talk to everyone i meet and ask them about the circumstances and why they left their homes. ninety-nine percent said they did not want to leave where they lived. no one wants to leave their homes. for this amendment to suggest that countries are intentionally sending their youth away or that somehow this desperation would be improved by taking away the education, anticorruption, or nutrition programming that this assistance pays for is ignorant at best and cynical at worst. the gentleman's amendment cut three times the assistance we provide to guatemala. that is three times for the last full programming year. it cuts double the assistance for honduras and guatemala. it is un- implementable, and it is really very cynical and dangerous. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. {time} 2015 mr. burgess. mr. chair, i would only point out that the american taxpayer is being hit twice in this exchange. one, they send tax dollars to other countries so that those countries can take care of their own children, but they do not spend the money on the children. they spend it on other things. then, the american taxpayer has to step up again and be charged again for the care and feeding of that child while in the custody of the office of refugee resettlement. i wish this amendment were not necessary. i wish those countries would take care of their own citizens so it was not necessary for them to undergo irregular migration. for over 5 years, i have been trying. it has not helped. this is the way to get their attention. mr. chair, i urge support of my amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from texas (mr. burgess). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. diaz-balart. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from texas will be postponed. mr. diaz-balart. mr. chair, i move that the committee do now rise. the motion was agreed to. accordingly, the committee rose; and the speaker pro tempore (mr. [[page h4837]] massie) having assumed the chair, mr. yakym, acting chair of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union, reported that that committee, having had under consideration the bill (h.r. 4665) making appropriations for the department of state, foreign operations, and related programs for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2024, and for other purposes, had come to no resolution thereon. ____________________