[congressional record volume 167, number 215 (tuesday, december 14, 2021)] [house] [pages h7816-h7820] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] joint resolution relating to increasing the debt limit mr. beyer. madam speaker, pursuant to house resolution 852, i call up the joint resolution (s.j. res. 33) joint resolution relating to increasing the debt limit, and ask for its immediate consideration in the house. the clerk read the title of the joint resolution. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to house resolution 852, the joint resolution is considered read. the text of the joint resolution is as follows: s.j. res. 33 resolved by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, the the limiation under section 3101(b) of title 31, united states code, as most recently increased by public law 117-50 (31 u.s.c. 3101 note), is increased by $2,500,000,000,000. the speaker pro tempore. the joint resolution shall be debatable for 1 hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on ways and means or their respective designees. the gentleman from virginia (mr. beyer) and the gentleman from texas (mr. brady) each will control 30 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from virginia. general leave mr. beyer. madam speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and insert extraneous material on senate joint resolution 33. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from virginia? there was no objection. mr. beyer. madam speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. madam speaker, i am pleased that today the house will take action to protect our nation's full faith and credit. s.j. res. 33 will ensure that the united states continues to be a nation that pays its bills, period. without today's action, for the first time in our history, the united states government could default on its debt obligations because of the debt limit, and this would be ruinous for u.s. workers and their families. it would trigger a financial crisis on par with that of 2008, resulting in catastrophic economic damage with millions of jobs lost, businesses shuttered, and a banking system in chaos. at a time when our recovery is strong but uncertain, we risk the loss of six million jobs, an unemployment rate of nearly 9 percent, the elimination of $15 trillion in household wealth, and a decline in real gdp of 4 percent. nonpartisan moody's analytics economist mark zandi predicted that following a default, a global market panic on the scale of the 2008 financial crisis would ensue. j.p. morgan chase ceo jamie dimon predicted that such a default could ``cause an immediate, literally cascading catastrophe of unbelievable proportions and damage america for 100 years.'' if the united states were to default, it would likely prompt a lasting downgrade of the country's credit that would drastically increase costs for mortgages, car loans, student loans, credit card bills, and other borrowing. this would threaten the livelihoods of the very people we are here to represent. i want to be very clear. raising the debt ceiling is not about incurring new debts. we are simply ensuring the federal government keeps its existing commitments, that it pays the bills we have already racked up. by raising the debt limit, we are meeting our existing obligations to members of the military, veterans, and recipients of medicare, medicaid, and social security. in fact, 97 percent of the debts currently necessitating an increase were accrued prior to the biden administration, many of which were passed with bipartisan support. this includes emergency pandemic relief measures, increased defense spending, and continued government operations. madam speaker, the time to act is now. treasury secretary yellen has issued a dire warning: without congressional action by tomorrow, the government will be left with insufficient funds to finance government operations. over 50 million seniors could stop receiving social security checks for a time. troops would go unpaid. millions of families who rely on the monthly child tax credit could see delays. our current economic recovery would reverse into recession, with billions of dollars of growth and millions of jobs lost. as the 2011 debt ceiling crisis shows, even narrowly avoiding a default costs [[page h7817]] the country billions of dollars. while raising the debt ceiling does not, on its own, create new debts for the united states government, a failure to do so certainly would. congress has addressed the debt limit 79 times since 1960 to prevent default; 30 times with a democrat in the white house, 49 times under a republican president. in fact, under president trump, congress took action to address the debt limit three times and did so without drama. today's action should be no different. i urge my colleagues to support this measure to lift the debt ceiling, continue paying our bills, and ensure our continued economic recovery. madam speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. brady. madam speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. in 2018, democrat leader nancy pelosi, leader hoyer, whip clyburn, and 116 other house democrats voted to default on the debt, shut down the government, and refuse disaster relief to devastated communities across america like mine. one even said, republicans control the house, the senate, and the white house; responsibility to govern rests squarely on their shoulders. well, right now the democrats control the house, the senate, and the white house. responsibility rests squarely on their shoulders. make no mistake, democrats have known this day has been coming for 2 years and did absolutely nothing. they passed no budget, passed no appropriations bills, and they did not spend a moment in bipartisan outreach to address the debt ceiling. i agree, congress should not play political games with the debt ceiling, but neither should it ignore the future financial crisis at risk of accelerating if president biden and congressional democrats pass their nearly $5 trillion socialist welfare plan. despite its desperate bid to shift blame for this debt ceiling crisis democrats themselves created, increasing america's national debt is necessary to make room in the so-called build back better bill for trillions of wasteful spending and special interest handouts for the wealthy and big business. make no mistake, the debt ceiling is not merely about paying for past spending, it is about making room for new wasteful spending, trillions that will pour more fuel on the inflation fire that marks joe biden's presidency, the highest rate in decades, that has robbed families of their real wage gains from the past 3 years. although the president and democrats in congress continue to deny that inflation is real, this is now a crisis for families, and especially seniors on fixed incomes. their claims that this costs zero has been debunked by the independent congressional budget office and multiple organizations, and fact-checked as false and misleading by the washington post. and democrats' insistence that future permanence will be paid for begs the question they refuse to answer. how? everyone knows there are only two ways to raise trillions of dollars more: tax middle-class families or rob from entitlement programs like social security, medicare, medicaid. the truth is, the democrats need this debt ceiling to fund special interests, give tax subsidies for luxury electric vehicles, and tax windfalls to millionaires, while the middle class gets nothing, or even a tax hike. {time} 2340 they need this debt ceiling to give tax breaks to trial lawyers, local media corporations, and pay 1.5 million workers more to stay home than go back to work. democrats need a quarter of a trillion dollars to lift the salt cap so that two out of three millionaires will get a huge tax break. meanwhile, for working families, inflation grows worse. main street businesses continue to struggle hard to find workers, and many parents will pay over $1,000 a month more for childcare under build back better. these are president biden's priorities. congressional democrats, these are their priorities. the question to america is, are these your priorities? the answer is no, which is why so many americans overwhelmingly question the competence of president biden and democrats to lead this country. i urge a strong ``no'' vote on this bill, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. beyer. madam speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. brady. madam speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from ohio (mr. davidson). mr. davidson. madam speaker, it is not compassionate to bankrupt america. that is exactly what this plan does. it equips this country with more debt to pay for the past debt with no plan to pay for the future debt. the only thing is more debt. it is a debt bomb, and it is something that this body has an obligation to stop. this country is on auto pilot for a crash site, and the only plan is to keep riding on auto pilot right into the crash site. the whole point of the debt ceiling is to force this body to do its duty and to come up with a plan to not default. the only question is not whether we default tomorrow, which we should not, of course we should pay our debts, but we should not default in the future either. and unless we come up with a different course of action, this is going to ride all the way to the crash site. i will oppose this, and i encourage all of my colleagues to do the same, and we should continue to oppose it until there is a plan to avert the crisis in the crash that is coming. do not bankrupt america. mr. beyer. madam speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. brady. madam speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from alabama (mr. palmer). mr. palmer. madam speaker, i thank the gentleman from texas for his leadership. a lot has been said about the congressional budget office scoring the build back better bill, that it increases the deficit by $3 trillion, putting truth to the lie that the bill is paid for. it is not. what the american people need to know is that there is another cbo report that was released earlier this fall that should be front and center of this debate over raising the debt limit. here is what that report says about the direction america is heading. according to the cbo, by 2051, america's debt-to-gdp ratio will be over 200 percent. in other words, our debt will be twice the size of our entire economy. that cbo report said a growing debt burden would increase the risk of a fiscal crisis and higher inflation, as well as undermine confidence in the u.s. dollar, making it more costly to finance public and private activity in international markets. the cbo reported that, with growing debt and rising interest rates, net spending for interest more than triples relative to the size of the economy. a new york times article reported that the cbo warned that such high debt levels will lift borrowing costs, slow economic output, and raise the risk of a fiscal crisis. the committee for a responsible budget warned that the nation's long- term output was an air raid siren that can be heard for miles. it said the mounting debt will make it harder to address income inequality and to make needed infrastructure improvements. apparently, my democratic colleagues are deaf to that siren. now my colleagues want to raise the debt limit by another $2.5 trillion so they can continue down the path of reckless spending with no regard for the consequences for our nation's future. that is the wrong path. that is the dangerous path. and that is why every member should heed the warnings and vote ``no.'' mr. beyer. madam speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from california (ms. pelosi), the speaker of the house of representatives. ms. pelosi. madam speaker, i thank the gentleman for yielding me the time, and more importantly, for bringing this important legislation to the floor. now we say that with many bills, and let me tell you, madam speaker, what this means to america's families. america's families, as they gather around the kitchen table and figure out their priorities and how they are going to pay their bills is what keeps them up at night. we must lift the debt ceiling to cover the expenses already incurred. it is important to note over 95 percent of it occurred during the trump administration, under 4 percent of it during the biden administration. but sadly, republicans have not only abandoned the responsibility they have [[page h7818]] in all of this, this is what it means to you. for families, a default could mean millions of american jobs eliminated, trillions in household wealth erased, reducing the value of the dollar and an immediate reversal of our strong economic recovery-- six million jobs already under joe biden--and having a terrible impact globally for decades to come. just the discussion of not lifting the debt ceiling a number of years ago when the republicans in congress were refusing to do so lowered the credit rating of the united states of america. our constitution says and it makes clear the validity of the public debt of the united states authorized by law shall not be questioned. i point out this other fact. if you have a car loan, if you have a mortgage, if you have a student loan, if you have credit card bills, any other borrowing, your interest rates will go up unless we lift the debt ceiling. so this has a direct impact on the pockets of the american people on the prospects for their success. let us be clear, republicans want less money in the pockets of the american people for whatever reason. i do not know what the middle class and working families ever did to them for them to want to exact this toll on our economy, on our standing in the world and what it means globally, but very importantly when you are discussing your finances over the kitchen table, understand that if your interest rates go up it is because the refusal of the republicans to lift the debt ceiling. i close by saying the full faith and credit of the united states should never be questioned. the health of our economy should never be threatened. the financial security of our families must never be gambled. i urge a strong ``yes'' vote for this legislation so that we strengthen our economic recovery, spare families the pain of a catastrophic default and uphold our duty in the constitution of the united states to uphold the full faith and credit of the united states of america. madam speaker, i urge an ``aye'' vote, and i thank mr. beyer for his leadership on this issue and mr. richie neal, the chair of the committee, as well. mr. brady. madam speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. madam speaker, sort of a gentle reminder, 2018 democratic leader nancy pelosi, leader hoyer, whip clyburn, and 116 other democrats voted to default on america's debt to shut down our government at the same time and refused disaster relief to devastated communities across america, including in texas. and as they said, republicans controlled the house, the senate, and the white house, and the responsibility to govern rests squarely on their shoulders. and another gentle reminder to the american public, our democratic friends have known this day has been coming for 2 years. this is a crisis that they created. did not bother to pass a budget, did not do their appropriations bill, no bipartisan outreach. waited again and again for this cliff and created this crisis. it has been frustrating to watch this go on. and, too, i know middle-class americans, one out of every three, will see a tax hike in the build back better bill, but two out of three millionaires get a huge tax cut. a quarter of a trillion dollars of this debt ceiling, a quarter of a trillion dollars of this increase will go to millionaires and billionaires and other wealthy americans. {time} 2350 not to mention the heat your home tax on middle-class families, the toddler tax on middle-class families, the made in america tax on our main street businesses. what is now clear is that president biden is a pay-cut president. even as most americans work hard to get ahead in their careers and their workplaces, they are now falling behind every month of this presidency. they have lost 3 years' worth of real wage growth, went backward in getting ahead. and just since spring, americans are losing an average of $377 a month in real purchasing power. who is the party for the middle class and working families? not democrats, who are robbing--inflation--from their paychecks. adding another $5 trillion to the inflation fire will only cause prices to continue to grow faster than paychecks. the middle class is on the hook for democrats' handouts to the highest earners, including their government checks to the top 1 percent and the biggest corporations, lavish subsidies for luxury electric vehicles, and tax cuts for the wealthiest. over half of families with two kids who pay for childcare will be forced to pay a $27,000 toddler tax each year under the democrats' washington takeover of childcare. all this hurts american workers and their families, the poor, and the seniors. we ought to stop this economic strain. we ought to stop this economic suppression. we ought to stop this attack on middle-class and working families. we ought to make progrowth tax reform permanent. it lifted millions of americans out of poverty, brought jobs back from overseas, and, for the first time, started to shrink income inequality. madam speaker, you may remember, in 2019, families in america, their household income grew more in 1 year under president trump and the republicans than in all 8 years of president obama and biden combined. we believe there is a smarter way to help american working families, but i know this: democrats are wrong to fight for $5 trillion of social spending that will send jobs overseas, limit choice in childcare, worsen healthcare, and lower paychecks by flaming inflation longer and making the worker shortage worse. madam speaker, we cannot afford this pay-cut presidency. i once again urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this measure, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. beyer. madam speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. madam speaker, very briefly, it seems my republican friends would like to make this debate about the bipartisan infrastructure bill and about the build back better bill despite the fact that these were wildly popular with the american people. listening to my republican friends, it sounds like we are in a desperate country instead of one that has created 6 million jobs so far this year, an all-time record that has 6 percent gdp growth expected this year. our unemployment rate is 4.2 percent. it has recovered faster than any time in american history. we are about to fund daycare for american working families, bring 3- and 4-year-olds to school. the child tax credit will be extended. our infrastructure bills are going to build more roads and highways, electric grid, broadband, fix the lead pipes. all this is in two bills that are paid for--that are paid for--every penny. when people suggest that the benefits may be extended, we have also promised to pay for them if that, in fact, happens. you complain that we have not done the appropriations bill. this house did the appropriations bill. but in the senate, which requires 60 votes, the appropriations bill did not happen over there. madam speaker, this is not about two very good bills, two paid-for bills that do not increase the deficit, that do not add to inflation. it is about the simple fact that we need to pay our bills. it is a simple bill. this vote should be simple. during the trump administration, the republicans added $7.9 trillion--50 percent--to the national debt. their tax cuts and jobs act alone added $1.9 trillion. we have to pay for that. that is what we are paying for tonight. madam speaker, i urge my colleagues, democrat and republican, to vote for this good senate joint resolution to lift the debt ceiling. madam speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. obernolte. madam speaker, i rise today to oppose this $2.5 trillion debt limit increase which this congress is voting on without any discussion of how this debate will ever be repaid. over the past year, congress' record levels of spending has sparked record-breaking inflation. just last week, our nation hit its highest inflation rate in 40 years with current annual inflation for the twelve months ending in november at 6.8%. as a consequence, real average hourly earnings decreased by half a percent in november. surging costs for food, energy, housing, and other items have left the average american family reeling. in my california district, the average price of a tank of [[page h7819]] gasoline has increased over $20 since january, while the price of natural gas is up more than 25 percent. congress is not only spending at a level that is well beyond our self-imposed limits, but also beyond what our economy can safely handle, and madam speaker, instead of reducing our spending and finding places to save as any american family would, this institution is working to push through another multi-trillion-dollar social spending package that would drive our debt and our inflation further into crisis. madam speaker, this unconscionable spending is the epitome of irresponsible governance. we must take measures to end this reckless spending and put our financial house in order. to that end i have introduced two bills that the house might better spend its time considering in the coming weeks instead of continuing debate on the reckless social spending bill. my constitutional amendment to balance the budget would amend the u.s. constitution to ensure total federal spending for a fiscal year does not exceed the total amount of federal revenue. it includes off- ramps that encourage bipartisanship in times of crisis and would end the seemingly-endless cycle of budget deficits. likewise, my finding federal savings committee resolution would help to cut back on government waste by creating a bipartisan committee in this body to identify underperforming and nonessential federal programs and recommend their elimination or modification. neither of these ideas are partisan, nor are they radical. they simply take steps to solve a problem that this body has continued to kick down the road for future generations to repay. madam speaker, this congress must do better. i call on my colleagues to reverse course, to stop this reckless spending, and to vote no on raising the debt ceiling without a plan to repay our debt. ms. jackson lee. madam speaker, as a senior member of the committees on the judiciary, on homeland security, and on the budget, i rise in support of s.j. res. 33--joint resolution relating to increasing the debt limit, a measure raising the national debt limit by $2.5 trillion, which is imperative to avoid a wasteful, irresponsible, reckless threatening of the nation's singular indispensable asset: the full faith and credit of the united states. madam speaker, preserving the full faith and credit of the united states by raising to the debt limit to ensure that america pays the bills for past expenditures when they come due is not a partisan exercise but an act of patriotism, a recognition and embrace of the solemn obligation to preserve the unrivaled advantages that flow from the ability provided in the article i, section 8, clause 2 of the constitution to ``borrow money on the credit of the united states.'' long ago, in 1789, alexander hamilton, the nation's first and greatest treasury secretary, understood that the path to american prosperity and greatness lay in its creditworthiness which provided the affordable access to capital needed to fund internal improvements and economic growth. it is because of the existence and wise use of the borrowing power that the nation was able to expand its reaches, resources, and riches by financing the louisiana purchase, the purchase of alaska from russia, to fund the investments to end the great depression, to finance the mobilization of resources needed in world war ii to defeat fascism and save freedom in the nation and the world, to revive the economy after the catastrophic great recession of 2008, and most recently, to protect the public health and safety and restore the economy during the covid-19 pandemic. this is why the ability to borrow money on the credit of the united states to finance its growth and protect its people and interests is essential to the national security and led hamilton to proclaim that ``the proper funding of the present debt, will render it a national blessing.'' but to maintain this blessing, or to ``render public credit immortal,'' hamilton understood that it was necessary that: ``the creation of debt should always be accompanied with the means of extinguishment.'' in other words, to retain and enjoy the prosperity that flows from good credit, it is necessary for a nation to pay its bills. the united states has never defaulted on the payment of any debt incurred, and because of the size and strength of its economic and unmatched creditworthiness, is able to borrow on the lowest and most favorable terms of any nation or entity in the history of the world. so secure and reliable is a bond issues by the department of treasury that the united states is the preferred haven for investments of foreign governments, corporations, and sovereign wealth funds. the interest rate charged the federal government of the united states is the base for which every rate, from the prime rate charged the richest corporation to rates charged small business on purchases to the mortgages rates and students loans taken out by consumers. if you raise the cost of borrowing for the government of the united states, you set off a chain reaction of increased interest rates for every other borrower in the united states and around the world. this is why leading public finance experts and agencies, like moody's chief economist mark zandi, have said it would be ``cataclysmic'' for the united states to default on its loan obligations. republicans know the debt ceiling needs to be raised; in 2019 during the trump administration, the republican senate majority leader marshalled senate republicans to vote to raise the debt ceiling, saying: ``we raised the debt ceiling because america cannot default[,] that would be a disaster.'' madam speaker, this debate over extending the debt limit is not about restraining future spending, it is about paying the bills piled up already under both republican and democratic administrations. the question of raising the national debt limit does not depend on how one feels about the build back better agenda, as wildly popular as it is among all americans, democrats, independents, and republicans included. it is instead about preserving the singular asset of the united states, its enviable and unrivaled creditworthiness, to finance future investments beneficial to the national interest, like the provision of free college for two years, or $2 billion investment to reduce violence in communities approved by the committee on the judiciary, or investments to preserve and strengthen medicaid expansion programs, or extend broadband to underserved rural and urban areas, an action that will be as life-changing as the rural electrification program was in the 1930s. madam speaker, if our friends across the aisle really want to shrink the deficit, reduce the national debt, practice fiscal responsibility, and bring about sustained economic growth and prosperity, there is a much better, easier, and more certain way to achieve these goals than by tampering with the u.s. constitution. the easier and better way is for the american people to keep a democrat in the white house and place democratic majorities in the house and senate. in the 1990s under the leadership of president clinton the budget was balanced for four consecutive years, the national debt was paid down, the national debt, 23 million new jobs were created, and projected surpluses exceeded $5 trillion. under president obama the financial crisis and economic meltdown inherited from his republican predecessor was ended, the annual deficit was reduced by 67 percent, the auto industry was saved from collapse, and 15 million jobs were created. in contrast, under every republican administration since president reagan the size of the deficit bequeathed to his successor was substantially larger than the deficit he inherited, a major economic recession occurred, and economic growth was lower than it was at the beginning of his administration. to preserve the sanctity of the full faith and credit of the united states, protect american jobs and businesses of all sizes, and ensure the continued growth of the economy, i support and urge all members to join me in voting for s.j. res. 33--joint resolution relating to increasing the debt limit. the speaker pro tempore. all time for debate has expired. pursuant to the rule, the previous question is ordered on the joint resolution. the question is on the third reading of the joint resolution. the joint resolution was ordered to be read a third time, and was read the third time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the passage of the joint resolution. the question was taken; and the speaker pro tempore announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. brady. madam speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to section 3(s) of house resolution 8, the yeas and nays are ordered. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 221, nays 209, not voting 4, as follows: [roll no. 449] yeas--221 adams aguilar allred auchincloss axne barragan bass beatty bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer blunt rochester bonamici bourdeaux bowman boyle, brendan f. brown (md) brown (oh) brownley bush bustos butterfield carbajal cardenas carson carter (la) cartwright case casten castor (fl) castro (tx) chu cicilline clark (ma) [[page h7820]] clarke (ny) cleaver clyburn cohen connolly cooper correa costa courtney craig crist crow cuellar davids (ks) davis, danny k. dean defazio degette delauro delbene delgado demings desaulnier deutch dingell doggett doyle, michael f. escobar eshoo espaillat evans fletcher foster frankel, lois gallego garamendi garcia (il) garcia (tx) golden gomez gonzalez, vicente gottheimer green, al (tx) grijalva harder (ca) hayes higgins (ny) himes horsford houlahan hoyer huffman jackson lee jacobs (ca) jayapal jeffries johnson (ga) johnson (tx) jones kahele kaptur keating kelly (il) khanna kildee kilmer kim (nj) kind kinzinger kirkpatrick krishnamoorthi kuster lamb langevin larsen (wa) larson (ct) lawrence lawson (fl) lee (ca) lee (nv) leger fernandez levin (ca) levin (mi) lieu lofgren lowenthal luria lynch malinowski maloney, carolyn b. maloney, sean manning matsui mcbath mccollum mceachin mcgovern mcnerney meeks meng mfume moore (wi) morelle moulton mrvan murphy (fl) nadler napolitano neal neguse newman norcross o'halleran ocasio-cortez omar pallone panetta pappas pascrell payne pelosi perlmutter peters phillips pingree pocan porter pressley price (nc) quigley raskin rice (ny) ross roybal-allard ruiz ruppersberger rush ryan sanchez sarbanes scanlon schakowsky schiff schneider schrader schrier scott (va) scott, david sewell sherman sherrill sires slotkin smith (wa) soto spanberger speier stansbury stanton stevens strickland suozzi swalwell takano thompson (ca) thompson (ms) titus tlaib tonko torres (ca) torres (ny) trahan trone underwood vargas veasey velazquez wasserman schultz waters watson coleman welch wexton wild williams (ga) wilson (fl) yarmuth nays--209 aderholt allen amodei armstrong arrington babin bacon baird balderson banks barr bentz bergman bice (ok) biggs bilirakis bishop (nc) boebert bost brady brooks buchanan buck bucshon budd burchett burgess calvert cammack carey carl carter (ga) carter (tx) chabot cheney cline cloud clyde cole comer crawford crenshaw curtis davidson davis, rodney desjarlais diaz-balart donalds duncan dunn ellzey emmer estes fallon feenstra ferguson fischbach fitzgerald fitzpatrick fleischmann fortenberry foxx franklin, c. scott fulcher gaetz gallagher garbarino garcia (ca) gibbs gimenez gohmert gonzales, tony gonzalez (oh) good (va) gooden (tx) gosar granger graves (la) graves (mo) green (tn) greene (ga) griffith grothman guest guthrie hagedorn harris harshbarger hartzler hern herrell herrera beutler hill hinson hollingsworth hudson huizenga issa jackson jacobs (ny) johnson (la) johnson (oh) johnson (sd) jordan joyce (oh) joyce (pa) katko keller kelly (ms) kelly (pa) kim (ca) kustoff lahood lamalfa lamborn latta laturner lesko letlow long loudermilk lucas luetkemeyer mace malliotakis mann massie mast mccarthy mccaul mcclain mcclintock mchenry mckinley meijer meuser miller (il) miller (wv) miller-meeks moolenaar mooney moore (al) moore (ut) mullin murphy (nc) nehls newhouse norman nunes obernolte owens palazzo palmer pence perry pfluger posey reed reschenthaler rice (sc) rodgers (wa) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rose rosendale rouzer roy rutherford salazar scalise schweikert scott, austin sessions simpson smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smucker spartz stauber steel stefanik steil steube stewart taylor tenney thompson (pa) tiffany timmons turner upton valadao van drew van duyne wagner walberg walorski waltz weber (tx) webster (fl) wenstrup westerman williams (tx) wilson (sc) wittman womack young zeldin not voting--4 cawthorn hice (ga) higgins (la) vela {time} 0020 so the joint resolution was passed. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. stated for: mr. vela. madam speaker, i was present and voted ``yea'' on rollcall no. 449, final passage of s.j. res. 33. however, it has come to my attention that my vote was not recorded, and i would like the record to show how my vote would have been counted on s.j. res. 33. had i been present, i would have voted ``yea'' on rollcall no. 449. members recorded pursuant to house resolution 8, 117th congress amodei (balderson) armstrong (johnson (sd)) axne (wild) baird (bucshon) barragan (beyer) bass (cicilline) beatty (blunt rochester) bera (aguilar) bilirakis (fleischmann) blumenauer (beyer) bonamici (kuster) bowman (pocan) boyle, brendan f. (evans) brooks (moore (al)) brownley (kuster) buchanan (waltz) butterfield (kildee) carl (joyce (pa)) calvert (garcia (ca)) cardenas (gomez) carter (tx) (weber (tx)) case (correa) clark (ma) (kuster) cohen (beyer) cole (lucas) crist (soto) cuellar (green (tx)) curtis (stewart) defazio (brown (md)) delbene (larsen (wa)) degette (blunt rochester) desaulnier (beyer) diaz-balart (burgess) doggett (raskin) doyle, michael f. (evans) escobar (garcia (tx)) espaillat (correa) fletcher (raskin) frankel, lois (kuster) fulcher (johnson (oh)) garamendi (sherman) gimenez (cammack) gohmert (weber (tx)) gonzalez, vicente (correa) gosar (boebert) gottheimer (sherrill) granger (arrington) graves (mo) (fleischmann) green (tn) (fleischmann) grijalva (stanton) guthrie (bucshon) hagedorn (moolenaar) hartzler (desjarlais) hayes (wild) hern (lucas) herrera beutler (rice (sc)) horsford (carter (la)) huffman (levin (ca)) jacobs (ca) (correa) jacobs (ny) (garbarino) jackson (van duyne) jayapal (raskin) johnson (tx) (beyer) jones (craig) joyce (oh) (garbarino) kahele (mrvan) katko (meijer) khanna (connolly) kilmer (kildee) kim (ca) (gonzalez (oh)) kinzinger (meijer) kirkpatrick (pallone) krishnamoorthi (brown (md)) lahood (wenstrup) lamborn (bacon) lawson (fl) (evans) leger fernandez (gallego) lesko (joyce (pa)) long (banks) loudermilk (fleischmann) lowenthal (beyer) luetkemeyer (mchenry) maloney, carolyn b. (wasserman schultz) mast (waltz) mccaul (burgess) mceachin (brown (md)) meng (kuster) meuser (burgess) miller (wv) (van duyne) moore (ut) (stewart) moulton (beyer) nadler (pallone) napolitano (correa) neal (beyer) neguse (perlmutter) nehls (fallon) newman (wild) nunes (garcia (ca)) ocasio-cortez (garcia (il)) o'halleran (stanton) owens (stewart) pascrell (pallone) payne (pallone) peters (kildee) pingree (kuster) porter (aguilar) posey (cammack) price (nc) (connolly) reed (rice (sc)) reschenthaler (burgess) rodgers (wa) (joyce (pa)) roybal-allard (connolly) ruiz (aguilar) ruppersberger (aguilar) rush (quigley) salazar (cammack) sanchez (costa) schrader (correa) sewell (cicilline) simpson (stewart) sires (pallone) speier (scanlon) stansbury (kuster) stefanik (burgess) strickland (schrier) suozzi (kildee) swalwell (gomez) titus (connolly) tonko (pallone) torres (ny) (cicilline) trahan (mcgovern) trone (brown (md)) underwood (casten) van drew (burgess) vargas (correa) velazquez (clarke (ny)) wagner (mchenry) walorski (banks) watson coleman (pallone) welch (mcgovern) wilson (fl) (brown (md)) wilson (sc) (dunn) zeldin (timmons) =========================== note =========================== december 14, 2021, on page h7820 (second column), the following appeared: hagedorn (moolenaar) hartzler (desjarlais) hayes (wild) hern (lucas)herrera beutler (rice (sc)) horsford(carter (la)) huffman(levin (ca)) jacobs (ca)------------------------ the online version has been corrected to read: hagedorn (moolenaar) hartzler (desjarlais) hayes (wild) hern (lucas) herrera beutler (rice (sc)) horsford (carter (la)) huffman (levin (ca)) jacobs (ca) (correa) ========================= end note ========================= ____________________