[congressional record volume 171, number 123 (thursday, july 17, 2025)] [house] [pages h3434-h3448] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] {time} 1250 department of defense appropriations act, 2026 the speaker pro tempore (mr. gosar). pursuant to house resolution 580 and rule xviii, the chair declares the house in the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the further consideration of the bill, h.r. 4016. will the gentleman from north carolina (mr. knott) kindly take the chair. {time} 1251 in the committee of the whole accordingly, the house resolved itself into the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the further consideration of the bill (h.r. 4016) making appropriations for the department of defense for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2026, and for other purposes, with mr. knott (acting chair) in the chair. the clerk read the title of the bill. the acting chair. when the committee of the whole rose earlier today, amendments en bloc no. 7, printed in part a of house report 119-199, offered by the gentleman from california (mr. calvert) had been disposed of. the chair understands that amendment no. 48 will not be offered. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i rise as the designee of the gentlewoman from connecticut (ms. delauro), and i move to strike the last word. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i yield to the gentlewoman from ohio (ms. kaptur), the distinguished ranking member of the subcommittee on energy and water development and related agencies. ms. kaptur. mr. chair, as the senior member on the defense appropriations subcommittee, i am deeply concerned and disappointed by this legislation. this bill was written before the [[page h3435]] department of defense submitted its budgetary needs for fiscal year 2026. shamefully, the department still has not provided congress with a complete request. thus, we have been brought to the floor to vote on an incomplete bill, with no complete executive branch submission. this is not only out of order, it is dangerous. their procrastination yields uncertainty for those who risk their lives in defense of this nation. america deserves better than uncertainty and a defense department that is missing in action. our troops cannot train on promises. our allies cannot fight with doubt. our factories cannot build american strength without steady support. this bill fails liberty on all counts. this bill misses crucial opportunities to strengthen america's defense industrial base. shipbuilding is backed up over 2 years. the great lakes region, a cornerstone of american industrial manufacturing, can play a major role in relieving that backup, but all of america is put on hold due to the dod's damaging budget delays. we must prioritize investments that rebuild our domestic manufacturing capabilities. our military should never have to fight with or depend on foreign sources for materials, critical minerals, or key military components. furthermore, by cutting all funding for ukraine, this bill dangerously ignores history at our own peril. at our founding, patrick henry heroically proclaimed: ``give me liberty or give me death.'' he knew liberty's cost and our new nation's responsibility to uphold the values that our european forebears bequeathed to us, ones that focused on representative government. thomas jefferson knew america does not exist alone on the globe when he wrote the words: ``our laws, language, religion, politics, and manners are so deeply laid in [european] foundations, that we shall never cease to consider their history as a part of ours.'' more recently, on january 20, 1961, president john f. kennedy, in his inaugural address, recognized america's fierce dedication to liberty when he said: ``we shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe to assure the survival and the success of liberty.'' then he warned that those who ride the back of the tiger would end up inside it. he warned against that, and i hope our nation never goes down that lonely, dark path. in a contemporary era on june 6, 1984, president ronald reagan stood in normandy, france, commemorating the day in history `` . . . when the allied armies joined in battle to reclaim this continent to liberty. . . . here the allies stood and fought against tyranny in a giant undertaking unparalleled in human history,'' and they did it together. mr. chair, these quotes and sacrificial deeds of our forebears explain why i rise to express my deep opposition to this bill's irresponsible and shortsighted exclusion of any funding for the ukraine security assistance initiative. throughout generations, the fundamental purpose of our nation is to guarantee liberty, to develop the kinds of relationships with our democratic allies who stand with us against tyranny in any form, and to fill our constitutional duty to provide for our nation's common defense. common defense, the constitution says. ensuring that the ukraine security assistance initiative is properly funded is essential to fulfilling our charge in defense of liberty on our watch. if you have not noticed ukraine's struggle against the spiderweb of tyranny fostered by russia, china, iran, belarus, and north korea, it is real, and it is lethal. ukraine is in a historic fight now, not of her own choosing but for her very survival. the poorest nation in europe has fought back mightily against the third largest military in the world after putin's murderous aggression that began in 2014. russia and its spiderweb of tyranny are a threat to liberty everywhere, and ukraine stands on the front line. if support for ukraine is withdrawn, russia and its allies' assault on fundamental freedoms will spread. may no one in this generation become swallowed by the tiger. those who do not know and study history are doomed to repeat it. proper funding in this bill will boost our domestic defense industrial base and affirm critical security and mineral alliances. it supports our nato partners. it is our privilege and, yes, duty to support our allies and the brave people of ukraine by appropriating funds for the ukraine security assistance initiative. my amendment would reinstate funding for the ukraine security assistance initiative. i include in the record the text of this amendment. ms. kaptur moves to recommit the bill h.r. 4016 to the committee on appropriations with the following amendment: at the appropriate place, insert the following: sec. __. of the amounts appropriated in this act under the heading ``operation and maintenance, defense-wide'', for the defense security cooperation agency, $300,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2027, shall be for the ukraine security assistance initiative: provided, that such funds shall be available to the secretary of defense, with the concurrence of the secretary of state, to provide assistance, including training; equipment; lethal assistance; logistics support, supplies and services; salaries and stipends; sustainment; and intelligence support to the military and national security forces of ukraine, and to other forces or groups recognized by and under the authority of the government of ukraine, including governmental entities within ukraine, engaged in resisting russian aggression against ukraine for replacement of any weapons or articles provided to the government of ukraine from the inventory of the united states, and to recover or dispose of equipment procured using funds made available in this section in this or prior acts: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall, not less than 15 days prior to obligating funds made available in this section, notify the congressional defense committees in writing of the details of any such obligation: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall, not more than 60 days after such notification is made, inform such committees if such funds have not been obligated and the reasons therefor: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall consult with such committees in advance of the provision of support provided to other forces or groups recognized by and under the authority of the government of ukraine: provided further, that the united states may accept equipment procured using funds made available in this section in this or prior acts transferred to the security forces of ukraine and returned by such forces to the united states: provided further, that equipment procured using funds made available in this section in this or prior acts, and not yet transferred to the military or national security forces of ukraine or to other assisted entities, or returned by such forces or other assisted entities to the united states, may be treated as stocks of the department of defense upon written notification to the confessional defense committees: provided further, that any notification of funds made available in this section shall specify an estimated timeline for the delivery of defense articles and defense services provided and shall identify if any equipment provided requires enhanced end-use monitoring: provided further, that the secretary of defense may accept and retain contributions, including money, personal property, and services, from foreign governments and other entities, to carry out assistance authorized for the ukraine security assistance initiative in this section: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall notify the congressional defense committees in writing upon the receipt and upon the obligation of any contribution, delineating the sources and amounts of the funds received and the specific use of such contributions: provided further, that contributions of money for the purposes provided herein from any foreign government or other entity may be credited to this account, to remain available until september 30, 2027, and used for such purposes: provided further, that the secretary of defense shall provide quarterly reports to the congressional defense committees on the use and status of funds made available in this section. the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 49, printed in part a of house report 119-199. amendment no. 57 offered by mr. davidson the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 57 printed in part a of house report 119-199. mr. davidson. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: strike section 8072. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentleman from ohio (mr. davidson) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from ohio. mr. davidson. mr. chair, i rise today to urge you and all of our colleagues to support amendment no. 57 to the fy 2026 department of defense appropriations bill. [[page h3436]] this amendment strikes section 8072, a misguided rider that prohibits the navy from decommissioning littoral class combat ships. the state of shipbuilding in the united states is nothing we would hope to have. it is broken. this program maybe represents the pinnacle of its brokenness. the ship does not accomplish what it was designed for. i am encouraged when i speak to the chairman to know that it is being put to use elsewhere, but it is not accomplishing the mission that the navy needs it for. this provision ties the navy's hands, forcing it to retain a deeply flawed, costly, and ineffective class of ships that undermines our national security, endangers our sailors, and wastes taxpayer dollars, when we could move forward and build a ship that could accomplish the mission. president trump is trying to take leadership over this and fix it, and this ties his hands in a way that prevents options. we should leave the commander in chief that decision. the littoral combat ship program, costing over $30 billion, with each ship priced at roughly $500 million, is a textbook example of pentagon inefficiency and contractor-driven bloat. designed as a light, fast, customizable vessel for near-shore warfare, the lcs has instead become a symbol of our flawed procurement system. {time} 1300 mr. chair, since its inception, the program has been plagued by persistent propulsion system failures, weapons system integration issues, hull problems, and rampant cost overruns. a 2022 gao report exposed the lcs's shortcomings. it has not demonstrated the operational capabilities needed for its navy mission. operational testing revealed significant challenges including the ship's inability to defend itself, if attacked, and frequent failures of mission-essential equipment on the ships. deployments have been marred by breakdowns and setbacks, rendering these ships unreliable at best. mr. chair, forcing the navy to maintain a fleet of broken and expensive ships is simply irresponsible. i think it is wrong to take our commander in chief's hands. our sailors deserve the best and most reliable vessels to defend our nation. every dollar spent on the lcs is a dollar diverted from building a stronger, more capable fleet. retaining these ships compromises readiness, squanders limited resources, and puts lives at risk. my amendment restores the navy's authority to make strategic decisions about its fleet and frees up resources for platforms that actually enhance our national security. mr. chair, i urge our colleagues to put the safety of our sailors and the strength of our navy first, and i ask my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on amendment 57. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. rutherford. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to the davidson amendment. the acting chair (mr. meuser). the gentleman from florida is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. rutherford. today, our nation is facing growing and real threats from adversaries around the world. there is china, who continues to rapidly grow their naval capacity at an alarming rate. iran, and its terrorist proxy groups, are threatening our allies and disrupting free trade in the red sea. finally, south american cartels and drug smugglers are harming the health and well-being of american citizens. to face these growing threats, our navy must rise to the occasion. that means projecting strength throughout the world, while bolstering our naval fleet. the lcs supports america's maritime security, sea control, and deterrence, and, importantly, president trump's agenda. just this past april, the uss minneapolis-saint paul helped the u.s. coast guard stop two alleged drug smuggling operations in the caribbean sea. these ships assist in stopping narcotics, protecting the homeland from illicit maritime drug trafficking, and securing our border. also, sea mines are actually responsible for more damage to u.s. naval warships than any other weapon since world war ii. although it is 10 years after originally planned, the lcs platform is now providing support for detecting, localizing, and neutralizing surface, near- surface, moored, and bottom mines, helping our sailors stay safe around the world. the navy has emphasized the need for a mixed naval fleet in the past, consisting of both blue water and littoral combat ships that act as fast-moving surface warfare vessels. they continue to undergo upgrades to improve their lethality and survivability in littoral waters so they can intercept drug and human traffickers in the caribbean and sweep for deadly mines. most importantly, they support u.s. naval efforts to end houthi attacks on commercial vessels in the red sea. our littoral combat ships have risen to the occasion to defend our homeland. they have provided the necessary backup needed to protect americans at home and abroad. mr. chair, if we want our military to continue to be the best in the world, we cannot throw away a dime to save a nickel, especially when an lcs vessel has only reached half of its life cycle. that is exactly what this amendment does. the decommissioning of the navy's mixed fleet strategy, the lcs vessels, is not the answer to our budget constraints. that is why i stand in opposition to this amendment, and i ask my colleagues to vote ``no'' on the davidson amendment. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from ohio (mr. davidson). the amendment was rejected. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, as the designee of ms. delauro, i move to strike the last word. the acting chair. the gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i yield to the gentlewoman from new mexico (ms. stansbury). ms. stansbury. mr. chair, i rise in the strongest opposition to this defense spending bill because, once again, in the dark of night, the gop is passing bills, stripping the american people of their safety, security, and support. last night at 3 a.m., the senate shoved through a dangerous rescissions package that guts foreign aid and public broadcasting. just this morning, the omb director suggested that he was just getting started and did not care whether or not the appropriations process proceeded as our founding fathers and the constitution imagined it. he said it should be more partisan and that he would continue to send rescissions packages like the one that they passed on the senate floor last night. let us be clear. the white house and an unelected bureaucrat are trying to steal the power of the purse and to steal the power of the people. to my colleagues across the aisle, it is happening under their watch. they are allowing it, enabling it, and giving away our constitutional authority to a corrupt and chaotic administration, while trying to pass fake bills like the one they have on this floor right now. it will weaken our military readiness, abandon our allies, and strip servicemembers of tools, training, and pay. it will undermine our national security and abandon our troops and, yes, make the world less safe. mr. chair, i ask my colleagues across the aisle what they are doing. how can they abandon the american people, the constitution, our troops, and our national security? it is time to stand up and grow a backbone and vote ``no.'' ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the chair understands that amendment no. 58 will not be offered. the chair understands that amendment no. 91 will not be offered. amendment no. 106 offered by mr. gosar the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 106 printed in part a of house report 119-199. mr. gosar. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be used for the bioindustrial manufacturing and design ecosystem. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentleman [[page h3437]] from arizona (mr. gosar) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from arizona. mr. gosar. mr. chair, my amendment no. 106 prohibits funds for the dod's bioindustrial manufacturing and design ecosystem, or biomade, that funds lab-grown meat and protein products for the military from feeding our men and women. how disgusting does that sound? with a national debt of over $37 trillion, we cannot afford to litter sensible appropriation bills with wasteful spending. an october 20 press release revealed biomade received $87 million in federal dollars under the biden-harris administration to produce lab- grown meat to reduce carbon emissions on military bases. in march 2023, biomade received an additional $450 million for the mantech program. let me name a few of these projects that taxpayer dollars benefited. one is called the ``potential benefit of superbrewed food's sustainable postbiotic protein on warfighter health.'' that one produces lab-grown protein to shorten recovery time and improve the concentration of servicemembers. another is the ``development of a sustainable, low-cost, oil process for heart-healthy dod rations,'' or producing oil from microalgae for servicemembers. the ``alternative protein bars,'' is a lab-grown protein derived from a microbiological agent similar to fungus. yummy. {time} 1310 this is the food that built america? i think not. why do marines, sailors, guardsmen, and coasties need lab-grown meat when the u.s. is full of delicious beef? in fiscal year 2022 alone, the dod awarded more than $369 million in u.s. contracts for beef, $2.3 million of which was supplied by phoenix, arizona. serving lab-grown meat over domestic beef or poultry rewards the government-funded bioindustry and punishes the american cattle ranchers who have a far smaller so-called carbon footprint than these big corporations. in 2024, florida and alabama banned lab-grown meat to protect farmers and the cattle industry. this year, mississippi, montana, and indiana all followed suit. mr. chair, i ask my colleagues to end this experiment on our armed forces and support my amendment no. 106. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentleman from california is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i think there may be a misunderstanding about bioindustrial manufacturing, what it is and what it is not. bioindustrial manufacturing is not cultivating meat. however, bioindustrial manufacturing is critical to energetics, such as hypersonic fuels, critical chemicals for munitions and missiles, and materials that literally increase the bang for the buck. in the 1980s, the united states developed what we called cl-20, one of the most powerful nonnuclear explosive chemicals ever created, but we did not produce it at scale. china, unfortunately, found our research and then scaled production. now, the chinese and russian arsenals have this very powerful ingredient. we cannot allow china to be the world innovation leader in any field, including bioindustrial manufacturing. we must continue tried and true practices to adopt new technologies to fortify the american defense industrial base. american lethality is degraded without bioindustrial manufacturing. meanwhile, china and russia benefit from american research. that has to stop. i am going to make a point here. biomade is a product. it is not a manufacturer and does not manufacture lab-grown meat. biomade has never funded research projects for lab-grown meat, has no current research projects on lab-grown meat, and has no plans to fund projects on lab- grown meat in the future. i think we have a misunderstanding. we need this technology for our energetics, which we use in our explosion devices very effectively. mr. chair, i yield 2\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. mccollum), who is the ranking member. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i rise in strong opposition to this amendment. let me be as clear as the chairman was. biomade has never funded any efforts to develop or produce lab-grown meat for any purpose. the rules committee should not have made this amendment in order because it is just not germane to this bill. mr. chair, let me tell you a little bit more about why it is important that this amendment be defeated. by preventing funding for the bioindustrial manufacturing and design ecosystem partnership, or biomade, this amendment would hand a clear win to china. the bipartisan national security commission on emerging biotechnology recently completed its comprehensive review on biotechnology's impact on national security. it concluded that china recognizes the immense military and commercial potential of biotechnology and biomanufacturing. they have made it a strategic priority and are quickly starting to ascend to dominance. to preserve our lead, we must take swift action to commercialize and scale biomanufacturing here at home. these new technologies use the power of biological cells and systems to perform complete chemistry-- complex issues. they will enable us to onshore the production of critical chemicals, including those used in munitions and high-performance aviation fuel, as the chair mentioned; to develop new medical cures and treatments and produce them on-demand near the front lines; to engineer biological sensors that can detect pathogens and chemical threats on the battlefield in real time; and to better extract critical minerals from domestic mining deposits, reducing our dependence on china for rare earth mining. that, again, mr. chair, is why the national security commission on emerging biotechnology report recommended that congress support a network of manufacturing facilities to scale up bioindustrial production, including for defense needs. biomade is a private-public partnership with nearly 300 members across 37 states. its mission is to partner with industry to enable innovators to pilot new bioindustrial production in facilities across the country that are linked to regional supply chains and agricultural feedstocks and to train the future workers in this industry. to be clear, we should be accelerating biomade's efforts, not senselessly blocking them. last year, the chinese government invested over $4 billion in biomanufacturing. we must take action now. we must not cede the lead to china. we must win the biotech competition. it is for that reason, mr. chair, i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in strongly opposing this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, may i inquire as to the time remaining. the acting chair. the gentleman from california has 30 seconds remaining. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. gosar. mr. chair, i am a little bit confused here, so i want to ask the question: if we do good faith advertising to the american people, because that is what our job is, tell me why we would actually say the ``potential benefit of superbrewed food's sustainable postbiotic protein on warfighter health.'' that is obviously not what the gentleman is talking about. then, we are talking about the ``sustainable, low-cost, oil process for heart-healthy dod rations.'' the other side's mantra is to do low carbon, getting rid of cows, but now they wonder why the cattle industry has problems understanding why they are doing this. i accept what the gentleman said in regard to what biomade is, but their truth in advertising fails. it fails dismally for the american public because that is what it says here. mr. calvert. mr. chair, our interests are energetics that go into explosion devices. a big part of that is the biomade industry. mr. gosar. mr. chair, i would love to see our money go to that aspect, but not to the substitutes for meat. [[page h3438]] mr. calvert. i am not interested in the substitutes. mr. gosar. i am interested in the substitutes because i do not think our warfighters should have to have that, and i would like people to make that distinction, even if it costs the amendment. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from arizona (mr. gosar). the amendment was rejected. the acting chair. the chair understands that amendment no. 110 will not be offered. amendment no. 111 offered by ms. greene of georgia the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 111 printed in part a of house report 119-199. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 24, strike lines 8 through 14. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from georgia. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, we support our great men and women in our military, and we want to fund them to have the best equipment, be afforded the best housing and best pay, and be treated the best in the world. i have an amendment today that would strike $118 million of funding to overseas humanitarian disaster and civic aid programs of the department of defense. these accounts fund programs for humanitarian assistance in foreign countries, in other nations, for foreign peoples--humanitarian mine action programs, foreign disaster relief for foreign countries and foreign peoples--that the american public is having to pay for. i want to remind everybody that the american people are $37 trillion in debt because of this institution and the way congress has spent their money. think about our own national disasters and problems that the american taxpayer faces here at home: hurricane helene, hurricane milton, the lahaina wildfires, the l.a. wildfires, the texas flooding where there are still over 100 missing people, the opioid epidemic, and the fentanyl epidemic. all over the country, people are suffering. {time} 1320 the american people voted to put america first. mr. chair, the american people are still being put last. right now, the average health insurance premium for a family has risen by 22 percent since 2018. fentanyl still kills hundreds of people every single day in america. more than 32,000 veterans, people who served in our military, were homeless in 2024, and there were 6,407 suicides among american veterans in 2022. this is unacceptable. in our department of defense appropriations funding, we should be funding our military and not paying for funding for humanitarian aid and crises in foreign countries. america simply cannot afford it anymore. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to this amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, this program is designed to assure that our allies and partners of the u.s. are supported in times of trouble. this funding provides basic humanitarian aid and essential services to the populations in need. let us talk about what it does for america's national security. this program is an important tool for our combatant commanders who use this to assist our allies, and it builds and cements our relationships. let me just give you a few examples. when we help our allies improve their capacity to prepare and to respond to a crisis that will take place, when we help implement the humanitarian mine action program, this provides significant training, readiness, and enhanced benefits even to our united states military. it contributes to alleviating the worldwide problem of explosive remnants of war, which includes landmines, unexploded ordnance, and small arms munitions. the program allows our military to hone their critical wartime, civil-military, language, cultural, and foreign internal defense skills. finally, through the foreign disaster relief program, a program executed by our combatant commanders, we provide unique assistance during natural and manmade disasters when interagency support is requested. dod's ability to respond rapidly with extensive manpower, transportation, and communication capabilities is critically important in a time of crisis. when we assist in filling in these capability gaps with our partners, we help contain the crises and limit threats to regional stability by providing relief aid within hours or even within days of a disaster. each of these programs are vital to the success of our combatant commanders' relationships with their counterparts. cutting these funds would lessen the ability of our armed forces to execute their missions. for these reasons, i oppose this amendment, and i ask my colleagues to do the same. mr. chair, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from california (mr. calvert), the chairman of the committee. mr. calvert. mr. chair, this amendment strikes all funding for the overseas humanitarian, disaster, and civic aid account. the funding is used by dod to assist during humanitarian disasters. the funding is also used when specialized dod experience is needed, such as detection and clearance of landmines, unexploded ordnance, and other explosive remnants of war. even to this day, we are cleaning up world war ii remnants. president trump's budget request includes just over $100 million for this account. i urge a ``no'' vote on this amendment. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, the american people are $37 trillion in debt. the department of defense's mission statement is to deter war and ensure our nation's security. that is their mission, and that is exactly what their funding should be for. i would like to ask: what foreign country showed up to help americans in our time of distress, in our humanitarian crises? which foreign country has come to clean up the hundreds of people who die every single day on the streets from fentanyl? which foreign country showed up to defend our border as we were invaded by millions of people for the past 4 years? which foreign country said: here, america, here are millions and billions of dollars to help you? i am going to tell you, zero. zero foreign countries showed up. here we are again. the american people are enslaved by $37 trillion in debt, a debt we can never climb out of, but yet a debt that continues to rise because here in congress we go by this belief that we have to fund every foreign country all around the world. i say: enough. the american people say: enough. right now, americans cannot afford their rent. young people cannot afford to buy a home. ask any 20-year-old or 30-year-old if they believe they will ever be a homeowner. their answer overwhelmingly is no. americans cannot afford their bills. they cannot afford car insurance, health insurance, and homeowner's insurance. life does not look good in the future. do you want to know why inflation is high? do you want to know why life continues to be unaffordable? because congress cannot rein in its america last spending. it cannot stop. it refuses to stop. it continues to say yes to the lobbyists for the military industrial complex. it continues to say yes to every lobbyist who walks in this institution, as congressmen and congresswomen take donations into their campaign accounts. americans are the most generous in the world. americans can donate through charities to foreign countries to help foreign issues and foreign people. but the american people should not be forced to write the check, and [[page h3439]] the department of defense should be able to focus on their mission to deter war and ensure our nation's security. mr. chair, i ask my colleagues to support this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i would like to point out, again, that when we do these projects together with our allied nations, it provides significant training, access, and readiness enhancement benefits to the united states military. mr. chair, the question was asked on this house floor who came to our aid, who stood for the united states. i was here on september 11 serving in washington, d.c., my first term in congress. nato, the world, came to our aid. the world came and helped us when we fought against the taliban. mr. chair, i thank those nations for standing with us, and i look forward to working with them in the future in this type of partnership. i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the noes appeared to have it. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia will be postponed. amendment no. 112 offered by ms. greene of georgia the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 112 printed in part a of house report 119-199. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 112, beginning line 23, strike section 8105. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from georgia. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, as the house considers funding $831 billion to the department of defense for the funding of our great men and women in our military to defend our nation and our nation's interests, it is important to talk about the foreign aid that we are funding to foreign countries. the american people are $37 trillion in debt. the debt keeps rising, and the interest on our debt is at $1 trillion now per year. {time} 1330 my amendment would strike $500 million of military assistance to taiwan. this is an increase of $100 million from fiscal year 2025 and will be used to provide a wide variety of assistance, including planes, drones, missile defense, munitions, and more. mr. chair, listen to this. as we are giving an extra $100 million, making it $500 million in this department of defense appropriations bill, the entire defense budget of taiwan is less than $20 billion. our defense budget is $831 billion. it would not be so high if we were not giving foreign aid. we have given taiwan over $2 billion in funding and munitions over the past 2 years. we have already given them $2 billion, but now we are giving them another $500 million. increasing foreign aid to taiwan will only increase their reliance on the united states, and the united states should be serving the american people and stop enslaving the american people in massive debt that drives the inflation that is causing americans to suffer and is causing americans to not be able to afford everyday life. the united states is $37 trillion in debt, and we can hardly afford our own massive military budget, let alone funding the significant portions of other countries, of foreign countries and foreign nations and foreign people that do not pay taxes here in america. we have so many of our own domestic problems here at home and should not be funding foreign countries, foreign aid, and, quite frankly, instigating world war iii with china. before we start worrying about taiwan's borders or ukraine's borders or any other country's borders, we should be focusing on the continued security of our own border and deporting the criminals and terrorists and millions of people who invaded our country and are somewhere within our country after they invaded our own borders. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentleman from california is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i greatly admire the gentlewoman from georgia's passion for ensuring support for our overseas allies are a wise use of taxpayers' dollars, but support for taiwan must be part of that equation. just yesterday, the trump administration released a statement of administration policy for the defense appropriations bill. i was very supportive of the bill we produced. one of the very few areas the administration expressed any slight disagreement with our bill was wanting more money for taiwan. the administration has proposed including $1 billion while this bill provides $500 million. mr. chair, had omb delivered budget materials to us in time for consideration, we would have certainly taken a look at providing what they requested, but that was not the case. supporting taiwan in the face of unrelenting chinese aggression is absolutely in the vital interests of the united states. i point out that taiwan makes 90 percent of the world's chips and close to 100 percent of the highly needed chips for artificial intelligence and high technical devices. the funding will go a long way to making sure that taiwan has the resources necessary to help prevent a chinese invasion. that is the position of the trump administration, and that is the position of this bill. mr. chair, i urge a ``no'' vote on the amendment, and i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. mccollum). ms. mccollum. mr. chairman, i am very, very proud of my vote to vote against the president's big tax package, which added $3.4 trillion of debt to our national debt over the next 10 years. yet, right now, i am rising in opposition to this amendment. america's strength around the world does not only stem from our military power but our network of alliances in europe and the pacific that allow us to project power. our allies support us, and we support them. that means, when our allies are threatened, the united states needs to be with them. that is exactly what we are doing in ukraine: helping a sovereign nation defend its democracy from russian aggression. a similar situation could easily occur in the pacific, where taiwan is threatened by the people's republic of china. china has a recent history of seizing territory. look at the invasion of tibet in the 1950s. they have suppressed democracy in hong kong. when the chinese president speaks of reunification of taiwan, we should believe that he will attempt it. we cannot allow that to happen. china may not stop with taiwan. if taiwan falls, other pacific island nations, like the philippines, would be threatened. america is not alone in these concerns. japan, south korea, australia, and new zealand are deeply concerned about the future of taiwan's democracy. that is why they are working with us to deter china and to prevent an invasion of taiwan from happening. mr. chair, the $500 million from this bill will assist taiwan in preparing their military and increasing their readiness and their deterrence capabilities. mr. chair, i support the inclusion of the funds in this bill, and i strongly oppose this amendment. i ask my colleagues to do the same. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chairman, the best way to compete with china is to have a strong american economy. we should not be funding the protection of a foreign country that is producing over 90 percent of our chips when we should be producing those chips right here at home. currently, many of our rare earth minerals are tied up on federal lands, and this is a problem that is tying up the production of chips here in america. [[page h3440]] mr. chairman, america should be building our strength and resilience. instead of, let us say, an additional $500 million being given to taiwan for their defense budget, we should be investing that $500 million into america's ability to produce chips so that we do not have to be the world's police that defends all these other foreign countries from china's aggression. the best way to beat china is with a strong america, but decades of america-last policies, where our manufacturing jobs were sent overseas and sent to china, is what made china strong. america created that problem, and america is continuing to create that problem by dependence on foreign countries for our own manufacturing. this is why rural america has been crumbling for decades because of the economic loss of their own small towns. in america today, the cost of college tuition has increased by over 180 percent. that means it is unaffordable for many students, and they are laden with student loan debt. according to american compass, in 1985, 40 weeks of a typical worker's income could provide the middle-class essentials for a family of four. yet, today, this requires over 62 weeks of income, exceeding the 52 weeks in a year. life is unaffordable for americans, mr. chairman. we are $37 trillion in debt. i urge my colleagues to vote for my amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the noes appeared to have it. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia will be postponed. amendment no. 113 offered by ms. greene of georgia the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 113 printed in part a of house report 119-199. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 42, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $15,000,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from georgia. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chairman, as we are debating today the $831 billion defense appropriations bill, it is important to talk about the foreign aid that is in this bill and why it must be stopped. the american people are $37 trillion in debt, and this institution is to blame for it. mr. chairman, it is congress and the men and women who serve in congress who can never say ``no'' to every single lobbyist and every single foreign country that walks into their office. my amendment today would strike the funding for hiv prevention education activities in foreign countries. this bill provides at least $15 million for hiv prevention educational activities undertaken in connection with the united states military training exercises and humanitarian assistance activities conducted primarily in african nations. my amendment would strike this provision to ensure that taxpayer dollars are not being wasted by teaching african soldiers about how to have safe sex. this is an issue that should be resolved by now. {time} 1340 the u.s. already spends a massive amount of money on hiv-aids primarily through pepfar, the president's emergency plan for aids relief. to date, u.s. funding for pepfar has totaled over $120 billion. that is $120 billion that the american people do not have and never helped them solve any of their problems. this has grown from $1.9 billion in fiscal year 2024 to $6.5 billion in fiscal year 2025. additionally, the national security department of state and related programs appropriations bill released this week would provide $5.8 billion to prevent and treat hiv-aids globally. when the american people are $37 trillion in debt, their credit cards are maxed out. young people in america have no hope for the future. why are we continually paying for hiv prevention activities in education in africa and other foreign countries? how does this provide for the defense of our nation? it does not. again, the american people are some of the most generous people in the world. they donate to charities, causes, and all types of organizations and foundations to help people. this should be a private donation out of the generousness of their heart. it should not be part of our defense appropriations bill that is already $831 billion. when do we ever look at the balance sheet? when do the american people's empty pockets ever matter to congress, mr. chair? mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. speaker, i rise in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, the department of defense works with partner militaries around the world to advance regional stability and mutual security. these foreign military forces must be healthy and functional to effectively engage with our forces and support these missions. the hiv-aids epidemic has a devastating impact on many countries, including on their militaries. it reduces readiness, unit deployments become limited, and it saps the morale and capabilities of the infected individuals and their communities. dod's hiv-aids prevention program pairs health and security assistance to provide care and treatment in concert with military training, exercises, and humanitarian activities. this amendment would eliminate a successful military-to-military hiv- aids prevention, care, and treatment efforts in more than 55 countries. in doing so, it would increase the burdens and risks for american forces and weaken global security by reducing the capacity of our partner forces. for these reasons, i will urge defeat of this amendment. mr. chair, i yield to the gentleman from california (mr. calvert). mr. calvert. mr. chair, the amendment strikes $15 million for hiv prevention education activities undertaken in connection with the united states military training exercises and the humanitarian assistance activities conducted primarily in african nations. this funding supports the defense health program, and those funds are credited with scaling back the aids epidemic in africa. this program has long enjoyed support across party lines. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, may i inquire as to the time remaining. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from georgia has 2 minutes remaining. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, while the defense appropriations bill funds $15 million for hiv prevention educational activities undertaken in connection with the united states military training exercises and humanitarian assistance activities conducted primarily in africa, i will talk about something that is plaguing black americans today. according to the department of education, 85 percent of black students lack proficiency in mathematics and reading skills. that is appalling. that is a failure of our education system to black americans, but in the department of defense appropriations act, we are supposed to send $15 million to teach soldiers how to avoid getting aids? is not this already known? this has been going on for years and years and years, and we are having to pay for that. why are the american people that are $37 trillion in debt having to pay for people in africa, soldiers in africa, to tell them how to avoid getting aids when our own black students here in america, 85 percent of them, lack proficiency in mathematics and reading skills, which is extremely [[page h3441]] important for success in their adult life. furthermore, there are entire high schools in our cities where not a single student scores proficiently on a standardized test, but the most important thing we can do is send $15 million to teach adult soldiers in africa how to not get aids? this is insanity, and this is the exact america last spending that the american people are fed up with. mr. chair, at what point does sanity enter the halls of congress because it has not been here for a very long time. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote for this amendment to at least save the american people $15 million or help students in america. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i agree with the gentlewoman from georgia. we need to do more for our children here at home. i fail to see how cutting the department of education, canceling grants, some of them in my district for special education teachers, ending the americorps help that our schools were getting with many students having someone to sit with them and help them with extra one-on-one for reading and for math to help them succeed, not to mention the cuts to snap. i used to teach. the last thing you want is a child with a hungry stomach in your classroom because they are more focused on what they did not eat than learning. mr. chair, there is more we can do, and that is another reason why i am so glad i did not vote for the president's tax cut. i just reiterate, again, that this mil-to-mil training builds resilience, support, and respect between the militaries. it keeps their militaries healthy, and i continue to oppose this amendment. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the noes appeared to have it. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia will be postponed. amendment no. 114 offered by ms. greene of georgia the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 114 printed in part a of house report 119-199. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: strike section 8067 (page 92, beginning on line 12 through page 93, line 13). the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from georgia. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, as the house considers the defense appropriations bill today that costs the american people $831 billion, it is important to talk about the fact that this is the funding for our great men and women serving in our military and our nation's defense. the department of defense's mission statement is to deter war and ensure our nation's security. that is worthy of the american people's hard-earned tax dollars. however, the american people are $37 trillion in debt, so this is money that is being spent that they already do not have. my amendment would strike $500 million in funding for nuclear-armed israel's missile defense system, and it is important to phrase it that way. israel is a nuclear-armed nation, which is very capable of defending themselves, and they have been proving that so as we have watched on the world stage. the u.s. already provides israel with $3.8 billion annually in foreign aid. that is $3.8 billion. that is a lot of money. additionally, the april 2024 security supplemental included $8.7 billion for israel. that is nuclear-armed israel. during the recent 12- day war, the u.s. used 15 to 20 percent of our terminal high altitude area defense missile stockpiles defending nuclear-armed israel, which cost us over $800 million. {time} 1350 the $500 million provided in this bill will fund israel's--that is, nuclear-armed israel's--missile defense system--the iron dome, david's sling, arrow system--yet israel is a nuclear-armed nation. that is a pretty big deterrent for any of their enemies. any nation that has a nuclear bomb has the greatest threat against their enemies. u.s. aid typically accounts for 15 to 20 percent of israel's defense budget, even though israel--nuclear-armed israel--has universal healthcare for their citizens and subsidized college for their citizens. they are able to provide that. however, here in america, we are $37 trillion in debt. my amendment to strike $500 million in foreign aid will ensure an america first department of defense. that is exactly what we need, and we have not had it for a very long time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentleman from california is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. calvert. mr. chair, the gentlewoman's amendment would strike $500 million in funding for the vital israeli missile defense capability. over the past 2 years, israel repeatedly has been attacked by iran and its terrorist proxy groups, hezbollah, hamas, and the houthis. each time, these groups have vowed to destroy the state of israel. the united states has affirmed our resolve to stand with israel by helping defend against the recent missile raids launched by iran against israel's civilian population. the success of israel's robust missile defense capability is, in part, because these funds were provided in this bill and prior bills. furthermore, this funding benefits our own missile defense industrial base, as it provides for coproduction activities and shared technology development. it is certainly to our mutual advantage. with that, i urge a ``no'' vote on the amendment. mr. chair, i yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. mccollum), the ranking member. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to this amendment. to be clear, i have disagreements with prime minister netanyahu's government. israel totally had the right to defend itself after the heinous attacks on october 7, and all the hostages should come home. the israeli military campaign has been an absolute tragedy for the people of palestine. the people of gaza are in desperate need of more humanitarian relief, which i strongly support. the funding in this bill does not support offensive weapons for israel. that is funding in a separate appropriations bill. this bill provides for defensive measures only, like iron dome, which i support. safety is what everyone in the region deserves. israeli children deserve to go to bed at night knowing that missiles from yemen, iran, the houthis, or anywhere else in the region will not rain down on them. palestinian children deserve to go to bed at night knowing that their schools, hospitals, and homes will not be bombed. that is what we all need to work toward: peace. mr. chair, i urge the defeat of this amendment. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, israel is a nuclear-armed nation, and they are less than $400 billion in debt. they are quite a thriving and successful nation. their economy is strong. they are doing a great job for their people. however, the united states, the american citizens, are $37 trillion in debt, yet we are continuing to send hundreds of billions of dollars in foreign aid constantly to foreign countries. this has to end at some point. our problems here at home for americans and the american taxpayer who are paying for all of this have gotten too large. i also want to point out that israel bombed a catholic church in gaza, and that an entire population is being wiped out as they continue their aggressive war in gaza. [[page h3442]] we are heartfelt about the october 7 tragedy when innocent people were killed. however, at some point, the united states needs to recognize that israel is a strong country. they are nuclear-armed, and they are capable of defeating their own enemies. it is right to stop funding this as we give them $3.8 billion every single year anyway. mr. chair, i ask for support for my amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from florida (mr. fine). mr. fine. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to this america last amendment and reject the premise of the arguments that are being made. there are 600,000 americans who live in israel, and one rocket has been fired against every 23 of them, 26,000 rockets since october 7. forty-three americans were killed on october 7, and 12 were taken hostage. more importantly, the research that this funds is the premise behind the golden dome. when we support research and development for the iron dome, we are creating the capability for the united states to defend itself as well. i have news. we have a nuclear weapon, too. that does not get you off the hook with those who are out to get you. when we oppose this amendment, when we vote it down, we are not only standing with israel. we are standing with the best interests of the united states. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the noes appeared to have it. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia will be postponed. amendment no. 115 offered by ms. greene of georgia the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 115 printed in part a of house report 119-199. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: strike section 8117 (page 118, lines 20 through 24). the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from georgia. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, as we are considering the defense appropriations bill that costs the american people $831 billion, it is important to consider the amount of foreign funding that we are spending every single year. the american people are $37 trillion in debt. life in america has become unaffordable, especially for our youngest generation. this amendment would strike $500 million in military assistance to jordan. this bill provides up to $500 million in military assistance to support the armed forces of jordan. however, our department of defense mission statement is to deter war and ensure our nation's security. my amendment would strike this provision to ensure that our defense appropriations bill funds only our military, not foreign militaries. why does our department of defense appropriations bill continue to pay for other countries' militaries? furthermore, the subcommittee on national security, department of state, and related programs appropriations bill released this week already provides for an additional $1.65 billion in aid to jordan. why are we giving them another $500 million in our appropriations bill for our department of defense? congress has appropriated between $1.5 billion and $1.65 billion in economic and military aid annually to jordan since 2018--annually. we are already sending them billions and billions of dollars as the american people continue to tumble further and further into a graveyard of debt. mr. chair, $37 trillion is a debt that we do not think we will ever be able to claw our way out of. however, it is this institution and the irresponsible continued spending year after year that continues to enslave the american people in debt. at what point do our military bases in the middle east and around the world make our country safer? in america today, there are still hundreds of american people dying every single day from fentanyl that has come from china, which the cartels create into press pills and other drugs and smuggle them into our country. it is time to put the american people first, mr. chair, and it is time to finally consider the drastic amount of spending that we spend every single year on foreign aid. mr. calvert. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentleman from california is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. calvert. mr. chair, jordan remains an indispensable ally in an extremely dangerous region. our partnership with the kingdom of jordan is critical both to the regional and u.s. national security. we must continue to ensure jordan can counter extremist terrorist threats and have the resources necessary to continue their role as the linchpin in the region. mr. chair, i urge a ``no'' vote on the amendment, and i yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentlewoman from minnesota (ms. mccollum), the ranking member. ms. mccollum. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to the amendment. jordan is a longstanding, reliable ally in the region, as the chair pointed out. when there is any type of incident in the region, for our national security officials, from centcom generals to diplomats, the first contact they make is to get the temperature of the region from their jordan counterparts. the united states and jordan have, since 1996, a status of forces agreement, a 2006 acquisition and cross-service training agreement, and a 2021 defense cooperation agreement. this is a 30-year stability-built relationship in the middle east with an arab partner. we need to nurture and maintain it. we have deployed military personnel to jordan to support operations that defeated isis to enhance jordan's security and to promote regional stability. jordan air bases have been particularly important for the u.s. to conduct intelligence, surveillance, and target acquisition and reconnaissance missions in syria and iraq. {time} 1400 just 2 weeks ago, our u.s. central commander traveled to jordan, where he met with the chairman of the jordan joint chiefs of staff and key staff. they discussed the evolving security situation in the region, the deepening bilateral defense relationship between the united states and jordan and further expanding the military-to-military relationship between jordan's armed forces and ours. this partnership continues to serve as a steadfast, capable, strategic partner for peace and stability in the region. we need strong allies. jordan has been and continues to be one of our strongest. for this reason i oppose this amendment. i ask my colleagues to do the same, and i yield back the balance of my time. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, with the american people $37 trillion in debt, we are weighing whether we should send another $500 million to jordan. they already have received $1.65 billion from another appropriations request, and they already receive another $1.65 billion every single year from the american taxpayer, who can hardly afford to pay their bills. let us talk about america's veterans. for the past several decades, we have men and women in our country, great men and women who served in our military, yet they were shipped over to some foreign war in the middle east. that did not defend america's border. our border continued to be overrun by foreign people from all over the world, but they were sent over there to fight for our freedoms. do you know what they came home with? they came home with physical injuries that they have to live with for the rest of their lives. they came home [[page h3443]] with ptsd and mental injuries that they live with for the rest of their lives. unfortunately, they have a suicide rate of over 22 a day. over 6,400 veterans committed suicide in 2022 and 32,000 veterans were homeless in 2024, yet the debate is about spending another $500 million for the defense of jordan. that is a country i guarantee you most americans cannot even find on a map, but most americans have a veteran in their family or their friends that suffers every single day from this country's continued pursuit of foreign wars and funding foreign wars. mr. chair, enough of the foreign aid and foreign wars and funding for the security of foreign borders that have nothing to do with our own borders and our own american people and the $37 trillion in debt that is killing us. mr. chair, i ask my colleagues to support my amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. calvert. i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the noes appeared to have it. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia will be postponed. amendment no. 116 offered by ms. greene of georgia the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 116 printed in part a of house report 119-199. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be used for assistance to ukraine. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from georgia. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, as we are considering the department of defense appropriations of 2026 that is going to cost the american people $831 billion, my amendment would be that none of the funds made available in this act may be used for the assistance to the ukraine war. this is a war that has nothing to do with america. ukraine is not a nato member nation. it is not the american people's responsibility to pay for this war, and it is not the american military's responsibility to fund it. my amendment would ensure that no further resources will be sent to ukraine. to date, congress has provided nearly $175 billion in assistance to ukraine, including direct military aid, funding for their government, and other forms of economic assistance. for the past 4 years, we had a democratic president who cared more about the borders of ukraine than the country he swore to protect, the united states of america. they allowed our own country to be invaded by murderers, rapists, and terrorists, all while sending nearly $175 billion to defend the borders of ukraine and fund their entire economy. our country funded their government at $1 billion a month, and the american people were forced to pay for their businesses. at a time when our government shut down american-owned businesses, families could not afford groceries, and our people were suffering, it was reported that nightlife in ukraine was thriving and that there were more bars and restaurants open in the capital city, kyiv, than before the start of the war. yet, the american people could not send their children to school, their businesses were shut down, and life here was closed, but the american people were paying for ukraine. it was shameful that americans were forced to foot the bill of the ukrainian economy while ours suffered. furthermore, ukraine is one of the most corrupt governments in the world, and zelenskyy is a dictator who, by the way, stopped elections in his country because of this war. he has jailed journalists. he has canceled his elections, controlled state media, and persecuted christians. the american people should not be forced to continue to pay for another foreign war in a country that has no effect on our own, and we are not contractually bound to defend. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. madam chair, i rise in strong opposition to this amendment. the acting chair (ms. malliotakis). the gentlewoman from minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. mccollum. madam chair, first, the majority has already eliminated funding for the ukraine security assistance initiative in this bill. it is zero. i personally believe that to be a huge mistake, and that that only emboldens putin. president trump seems to be agreeing now because just the other day he announced the decision to provide billions of dollars of equipment to ukraine through our nato partners. i give credit to the president for that decision. now we have an amendment to further prohibit any support of ukraine as they fight to defend their country from an illegal russian invasion. putin is attempting to rewrite the map of europe through use of force. he is doing so in violation of international law. he is deliberately killing civilians, targeting hospitals and schools, destroying the economy and the livelihood of ukraine in the process. putin and his thugs are committing war crimes on a mass scale. they are putting the united states and the democratic nations of the world on notice, and that is why we must strongly oppose him. if we do not, then he or other authoritarian leaders will likely try something like this again, either in ukraine or elsewhere in the world. {time} 1410 ms. mccollum. madam chair, america is not alone in our military support of ukraine. our nato and european allies are continuing to provide billions of dollars for support themselves. that is in line with the decision that president trump announced the other day. let us not abandon the eu or our nato allies now, and let us not abandon ukraine. the ukrainian people did not ask for this war. they deserve our continued support. i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment. madam chair, i yield to the gentleman from california (mr. calvert). mr. calvert. madam chair, i rise in opposition to the gentlewoman's amendment. sadly, we saw for years how the biden administration failed to provide ukraine the resources necessary to fight back in an effective way against russian aggression. just the other day, president trump took decisive action to provide weapons to ukraine to defend against these unprovoked attacks. the president is right to support efforts to ensure innocent lives are no longer lost. he is right to undertake efforts to stop the bloodshed. as he continues to work toward a peaceful solution, we should not remove the ability to provide what he thinks will help the ukrainian people to prevent further losses and use as leverage to negotiate a peace agreement hopefully very soon. madam chair, i urge a ``no'' vote on the amendment. ms. mccollum. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. greene of georgia. madam chair, may i inquire as to how much time is remaining. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from georgia has 2\1/2\ minutes remaining. ms. greene of georgia. madam chair, democrats used to be the antiwar party. yet, every single democrat voted to fund the war in ukraine. this funding has been approximately $175 billion of the american people's hard-earned tax dollars. yet, the american people are in debt by $37 trillion. it is said that the ukrainian people did not ask for that war. the american people did not ask for this debt. the american people are not obligated to defend every single country around the world. at what point do we defend our own citizens and their ability to actually be able to afford life in america? as our debt continues to climb because congress refuses to stop spending on priorities that put america last and refuses [[page h3444]] to stop spending on foreign aid and foreign wars, the american people will have no chance. now that our border is closed--thank god for tom homan, ice, and president trump and his administration--we are conducting the largest deportation operations our country has ever seen. we must continue to put america first and continue to address the needs of our own people within our own homeland. this means no more assistance to ukraine. the only assistance that america should be providing is a pathway to peace and not furthering a war. that is not what the american people want. that is not what the american people voted for. americans do not deserve to have their hard-earned tax dollars fund a bloody and deadly war in ukraine. we need peace, and we need peace all over the world. this is an unwinnable war in which americans are footing the bill, and it has resulted in mass casualties in both nations. americans do not want to pay for murder. rough estimates show that over 1.5 million people have been killed and injured since the start of this war. a ukrainian assessment earlier in 2024 placed ukrainian troop losses at 80,000 killed and 400,000 wounded. estimates from june of this year show that approximately 1 million russian soldiers have been killed or wounded. these are people's sons. these are people's brothers. they are their cousins and their husbands. an entire generation of ukrainian men are being wiped out. russian men are, as well. this is not something the american people should pay for. madam chair, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. madam chair, i would stress to the body that the majority has already eliminated any funding for the ukraine security assistance initiative in this bill. i believe this is a huge mistake. the amendment does not accomplish cutting the funding. i would point out again, madam chair, when i talked about international war crimes and when the previous speaker was talking about the loss of life in ukraine, there are 20,000 ukrainian children who have been kidnapped by russia. they were ripped from their homes and the arms of their mothers and fathers. that is a war crime, and we should not be silent on that. madam chair, i thank president trump for now realizing it is important we come to ukraine's aid through our nato partners. madam chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the noes appeared to have it. ms. greene. madam chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia will be postponed. amendment no. 159 offered by mr. joyce of pennsylvania the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 159 printed in part a of house report 119-199. mr. joyce of pennsylvania. madam chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: on page 28, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $30,000,000)''. on page 39, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $30,000,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. joyce) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from pennsylvania. mr. joyce of pennsylvania. madam chair, i rise today to speak in support of amendment no. 159, to provide funding for the purchase of heavy dump trucks, or hdts, for the active army, the army national guard, and the army reserve. while much of the focus in our fy26 defense appropriations bill is on weapons and on other defense materials, the tools that our military use to ensure that the infrastructure is in place to support our servicemembers are just as critical to our nation's success. hdts are necessary for the construction and the maintenance of supply routes, airfields, helipads, and logistical facilities in both combat and noncombat zones. currently, our military is forced to rely on an outdated and an unreliable fleet of trucks. upgrading these vehicles will provide our servicemembers with up-to-date safety features such as blind spot detection, collision avoidance, and antilock brakes that are common in most modern vehicles. additionally, modernization of the fleet will also accommodate armored ballistic cabs, vitally critical for protecting our warfighters. not only will this amendment ensure that our servicemembers can utilize modern technology when building the infrastructure that our warfighters rely on, but it also puts millions of dollars into local economies throughout our country. from my home state of pennsylvania to minnesota, communities across the united states play a vital role in supporting the hdt industrial base. this amendment will continue to support the hardworking americans who build these trucks. madam chair, i urge my colleagues to support this commonsense amendment to ensure our servicemembers have the most up-to-date technology to support our warfighters. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. {time} 1420 mr. joyce of pennsylvania. madam chair, i yield to the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. mackenzie). mr. mackenzie. madam chair, i rise in support of this amendment by my colleague from pennsylvania that increases funding by $30 million for procurement of the army's heavy dump trucks and offsets it with a $30 million reduction to future tactical unmanned aircraft system development. while that development remains important, the army's heavy dump trucks are critical to current operational needs. these trucks are manufactured by companies like mack defense in allentown, pennsylvania. i have had the opportunity to tour that facility and see firsthand how this facility provides well-paying jobs in our community while at the same time reinforcing the strength of our nation's defense industrial base. this amendment delivers the tactical vehicles our troops rely on that are built by a critical manufacturer right in the lehigh valley. madam chair, i am proud to cosponsor this amendment, and i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting its passage. mr. joyce of pennsylvania. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. the acting chair. the gentleman has the only time. mr. joyce of pennsylvania. madam chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. joyce). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 221 offered by mrs. miller-meeks the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 221 printed in part a of house report 119-199. mrs. miller-meeks. madam chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title) insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act be used to reduce the workforce at any active united states army arsenal. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentlewoman from iowa (mrs. miller-meeks) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from iowa. mrs. miller-meeks. madam chair, america's warfighters rely on more than courage and training. they rely on an uninterrupted supply of expertly manufactured weapons, parts, and ammunition. that lifeline begins with our army arsenals. [[page h3445]] my amendment to the department of defense appropriations act protects that lifeline by prohibiting any federal funds from being used to reduce the workforce at rock island arsenal, joint munitions command, army sustainment command, or any other active u.s. army arsenal. rock island arsenal is more than just a military installation. it is a critical node in our nation's defense infrastructure. its civilian experts, many of them veterans, produce, repair, and innovate the equipment our troops depend on from the front lines to forward operating bases. every rifle sight calibrated, every artillery shell inspected, and every 3d-printed replacement part shipped from rock island shortens the time between a soldier's need and the answer that keeps that soldier alive. when rumors surfaced of workforce reductions at the island, i wrote to secretary of the army driscoll, made a site visit with him, and spoke directly with the men and women whose skills cannot be replicated overnight. this amendment cements their mission readiness. it prevents talent loss, preserves irreplaceable know-how, and keeps our defense industrial base resilient against any adversary who hopes to see it weakened. in addition to being a pillar of our national defense, rock island arsenal supports more than 15,000 jobs. nearly one-half of those workers live in iowa. it also contributes over $1.2 billion annually to the economy of the quad cities region. these are good-paying jobs that support families, grow our communities, and, most importantly, provide the backbone of our military supply chain. as a 24-year army veteran, i know how vital these arsenals are, not just to the military, but to the nation. this is about protecting readiness, our military, and america. with the assurance of the chair that he will work with me to ensure that this amendment does what we intend it to do and continues to supply our military with the munitions they need, i will always fight for rock island arsenal, and the men and women in and out of uniform who power its mission and protect our nation. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. calvert. madam chair, i claim the time in opposition but not the intent of the amendment. the acting chair. without objection, the gentleman from california is recognized for 5 minutes. there was no objection. mr. calvert. madam chair, i state to the gentlewoman that certainly i look forward to working with her as we move forward with this legislation to make sure that we have the right type of language. what i am going to do is work with the gentlewoman as we move forward on this legislation to make sure that we do not have any unintended consequences in the language. we will do that as we move this legislation forward. i appreciate the gentlewoman withdrawing the amendment. mrs. miller-meeks. madam chair, with the assurance that the chairman and i will work together, i yield back the balance of my time, and i withdraw the amendment. the acting chair. the amendment is withdrawn. mr. calvert. madam chair, i yield back the balance of my time. amendment no. 248 offered by mr. ogles the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 248 printed in part a of house report 119-199. amendment no. 277 offered by mr. steube the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 277 printed in part a of house report 119-199. mr. steube. madam chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title) insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act be used for assistance to the lebanese armed forces. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentleman from florida (mr. steube) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from florida. mr. steube. madam chair, it is our duty to afford the american people the assurance that their tax dollars are spent fulfilling the needs of the american people, not funneled to terrorist proxies that threaten our very existence. my amendment would ensure that not a single taxpayer dollar would be sent to the lebanese armed forces, a military force riddled with hezbollah sympathizers that acts as yet another proxy of the iranian terror regime. to say that hezbollah and its allies do not have any control over the lebanese state is just categorically false. hezbollah and other terror groups that operate freely throughout the country have launched countless attacks on our ally israel. in the past year alone, hezbollah has indiscriminately launched nearly 2,000 missiles into israeli territory, attempting to replicate the horrific atrocities that occurred on october 7, yet the lebanese military has consistently failed to take any substantive action to eliminate hezbollah from its control over the lebanese state. not only do hezbollah and its allies control dozens of seats in lebanon's parliament, but they literally sit at the helm of the military force that the american taxpayer has been propping up since 2006. as a matter of fact, nabih berri, the speaker of the lebanese parliament, is a hezbollah sympathizer himself. as the head of the amal movement, his group joined hezbollah in their war against israel and launched attacks upon the idf. like hezbollah, amal is just another proxy of the iranian terror regime. why should we trust the lebanese government that our assistance to their military would not be funneled to terrorism when their own speaker of parliament is a terrorist supporter himself? while the lebanese military alleges a willingness to disband and disarm hezbollah, their actions prove otherwise. the lebanese military is conveniently absent in hezbollah strongholds and is far too reluctant to take any meaningful action to eliminate hezbollah once and for all. that is why i introduced legislation providing for an eight-point plan to condition aid to the lebanese military, including provisions that would disband hezbollah, eliminate all coordination with and support from the iranian regime, and end persecution of american citizens who have advocated against hezbollah's influence over the government of lebanon. this bill, the pager act, offers a clear roadmap to strategically realign the lebanese government to no longer threaten the united states or our allies and interests in the middle east. in fact, a significant portion of lebanon's military expenditures do not even go toward its defense. over 70 percent of its budget has consistently been allocated for personnel salaries and excessive benefits, including domestic servants and drivers for high-ranking officers. american taxpayers expect their hard-earned tax dollars to be spent on american interests, not armored mercedes and other luxury goods for lebanese generals. this really should be a bipartisan issue. where are the democrats complaining about lebanon's human rights atrocities? the democrats were silent when the lebanese military shot protesters, silent when they forcibly repatriated syrian refugees, and silent when the lebanese military failed to prevent hezbollah from indiscriminately targeting our ally israel. yet, they tell us to turn a blind eye and let the lebanese military abuse the generosity of the american taxpayer. we cannot, in good conscience, continue sending u.s. taxpayer dollars to lebanon when they are complicit in empowering a terrorist organization whose primary mission is to destroy america and israel. money is fungible, and every dollar funneled to lebanon is another resource aiding hezbollah's operations, undermining regional stability, and threatening israel's security. until they finally eliminate hezbollah and stop reporting to their handlers in tehran, any more funds to the lebanese military are simply unjustifiable. i encourage my colleagues to recognize the pressing danger that still exists within the lebanese military and vote for my amendment. [[page h3446]] madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. {time} 1430 mr. issa. madam chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentleman from california is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. issa. madam chair, i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from illinois (mr. lahood). mr. lahood. madam speaker, i rise in strong opposition to this misguided amendment. the longstanding u.s. military investment for the independent lebanese armed forces, also known as the laf, has worked to support u.s. security interests in the middle east for close to 20 years. as co-chair of the u.s.-lebanon friendship caucus and a member of the house intelligence committee, i work closely with the brave men and women in the u.s. military who work alongside the laf to ensure robust oversight of u.s. military funding and training resources. the stability of the laf is important not only to the security of lebanon but also their neighboring countries and the united states. that stability is more important than ever as the laf works to permanently disarm and destroy hezbollah's presence in lebanon. building on the tremendous success of israel in weakening iran and eliminating hezbollah's terrorist leader network, hezbollah is now at its weakest point. this is a tremendous opportunity for the laf and for the people of lebanon to root out terror proxy influence from within their borders. the laf has an active mission and expectation from the united states and others to fully disarm hezbollah, and they are working to accomplish that every day. eliminating military funding from the laf now will only serve to further embolden hezbollah and allow them to regroup. this cannot happen with hezbollah on their back foot. u.s. support and funding for the laf is more important than ever. this amendment is misguided. to prove that point, i will reference an article from earlier this week, from july 12 of 2025: this week the trump administration, the state department, and the dod approved $100 million to go to the laf for the super tucano aircraft. in listening to what the state department said regarding the sale of military equipment to lebanon, this is their statement: ``this proposed sale will support the foreign policy and national security of the united states by improving the security of a partner country, [lebanon,] that continues to be an important force for political stability and economic progress in the middle east.'' madam chair, i include in the record an article dated july 12, 2025, which shows that the current trump administration supports military funding to the laf. [from l'orient today, july 12, 2025] us approves potential $100 million sale to lebanon for a-29 super tucano maintenance beirut--the u.s. state department has approved a potential $100 million sale to lebanon for maintenance services and support equipment for the a-29 super tucano aircraft, the pentagon announced in a statement friday. the super tucano is a multi-mission aircraft used for training and light attack operations. according to the statement, the ``government of lebanon has requested to buy support equipment, and other related elements of a logistics program and support.'' ``this proposed sale will support the foreign policy and national security of the united states by improving the security of a partner country that continues to be an important force for political stability and economic progress in the middle east,'' the statement read. the state department noted that the lebanese armed forces (laf) were deployed to southern lebanon to help implement the november 2024 cease-fire, which followed 13 months of conflict between hezbollah and israel. ``sustainment of the a-29 fleet will support the laf's role in maintaining the cessation of hostilities by ensuring maintenance of this critical aircraft, which is used for close air support in ground maneuver operations, as well as manned intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions,'' the statement added. ``the sale of a-29 sustainment will support the laf's implementation of the cessation of hostilities by providing maintenance for this critical aircraft, which is used to conduct close air support as part of ground maneuver operations, as well as manned intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance,'' the statement adds. moreover, the state department noted that the ``principal contractor will be sierra nevada corporation [snc], located in sparks, nv'', adding that at this time, the ``u.s. government is not aware of any offset agreement proposed in connection with this potential sale.'' during the clashes in march between clans close to hezbollah and the syrian army along the lebanese-syrian border, the laf deployed its super tucano attack aircraft to strike at a position in syria, demonstrating its growing operational capabilities and use of such weapons. despite the cease-fire agreement, israel has continued to carry out near- daily airstrikes, mainly in southern lebanon, and maintains control over five areas within lebanese territory. mr. lahood. madam chair, i oppose this misguided amendment, and i urge my colleagues to do the same. mr. steube. madam chair, may i inquire as to the time remaining. the acting chair. the gentleman from florida has 1\1/2\ minutes remaining. mr. steube. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. issa. madam chair, may i inquire as to the time remaining. the acting chair. the gentleman from california has 2\1/2\ minutes remaining. mr. issa. madam chair, in closing, the gentleman from florida is entitled to his opinion. it is an opinion he has brought to us not once, but multiple times. each time this body has voted down, on a broad bipartisan basis, this amendment. there is reason for that, madam chair. it has been voted down repeatedly because, in fact, it is misguided, and it relies on facts that simply are not facts. i do not know about the author of this bill, where he got it, but i can tell you this. i have stood in lebanon with our special forces who are training and working on a constant basis with the laf. i have stood in lebanon and seen the destruction of hezbollah caches, massive amounts. more than that, i have met with our ally israel, and in conversation with prime minister bibi netanyahu, i asked him: should we continue to give money to the laf? his answer was short: give them more. madam chair, king abdullah of jordan has been passing on necessary vehicles to help them do their job better, and israel created the opportunity for them to retake all of lebanon and rid it of the iranian influence and hezbollah once and for all. our president; his predecessor, joe biden; his predecessor, donald trump; his predecessor, barack obama; and his predecessor, george w. bush, do not agree on much, but they agree on this: it has been worth the investment. it is paying dividends. you do not let up just at a point when they are clearing out and making safe for a democracy that, in fact, would work there but for foreign forces with weapons. madam chair, this has been defeated before, but before we did not have the good news and the support of every neighbor and our president the way we do today. i ask all members to vote against this, not because they cannot make a point that lebanon is a country that has been influenced but because they cannot make a point that the laf is anything but the only force that can, in fact, bring an eradication of hezbollah and keep iran from reoccupying that, something that israel supports and we support. madam chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. steube. madam chair, this is a headline from 2 days ago: ``israeli military attacks hezbollah sites in eastern lebanon.'' ``the israeli military on tuesday said it attacked hezbollah positions in lebanon. fighter jets targeted military sites in the eastern bekaa valley, which the iran-backed militia used for training purposes.'' i include in the record this yahoo news report. israeli military attacks hezbollah sites in eastern lebanon july 15, 2025 the israeli military on tuesday said it attacked hezbollah positions in lebanon. fighter jets targeted military sites in the eastern bekaa valley, which the iran-backed militia used for training purposes, the israel defense forces (idf) said. ``the military compounds that were struck were used by the hezbollah terrorist organization for training and exercising terrorists [[page h3447]] to plan and carry out terrorist attacks against idf troops and the state of israel,'' the idf stated. ``as part of the terrorists' exercises and training at these military sites, the terrorists carried out drills for gunfire combat and the use of various weapons,'' it added. the israeli military said ``the storage of weapons and the activities of the hezbollah terrorist organization at these sites constitute a blatant violation of the understandings between israel and lebanon.'' lebanese security sources said that israeli warplanes flew more than 10 attacks in several eastern locations early on tuesday. according to residents, loud explosions could be heard in the region. the area is known as a hezbollah stronghold. israel and hezbollah agreed on a ceasefire november 2024 after more than a year of mutual shelling. nevertheless, the israeli military continues to attack targets in lebanon. both sides accuse each other of violating the agreement. mr. steube. madam chair, i also include in the record another one from 2 days ago: ``12 said killed as israel hits elite hezbollah force deep inside lebanon.'' ``israeli jets carried out a wave of airstrikes deep inside lebanon aimed at stopping an elite hezbollah unit from regrouping and rebuilding . . .'' ``the military camps that were targeted are used by the hezbollah terror organization for training and preparing terrorists for the planning and execution of terror operations against idf forces and the state of israel.' '' 12 said killed as israel hits elite hezbollah force deep inside lebanon (by emanuel fabian) military says targets in northeastern beqaa valley include radwan unit facilities, where military activity was taking place in `blatant violation' of november ceasefire. israeli jets carried out a wave of airstrikes deep inside lebanon aimed at stopping an elite hezbollah unit from regrouping and rebuilding its strength, authorities said tuesday. lebanese state media reported that 12 people were killed. ``enemy warplanes launched raids on the wadi fara area in the northern beqaa valley, one of which targeted a camp for displaced syrians, resulting in the deaths of 12 martyrs, including seven syrians, and eight wounded,'' the country's state-run national news agency reported. the strikes in lebanon's northeastern beqaa valley were aimed at military facilities belonging to the hezbollah terror group's radwan force, where operatives and weapon depots had been detected, the israel defense forces said. ``the military camps that were targeted are used by the hezbollah terror organization for training and preparing terrorists for the planning and execution of terror operations against idf forces and the state of israel,'' the military said in a statement. the weapons stored at the sites and hezbollah's activity ``constitute a blatant violation of the understandings between israel and lebanon, and pose a future threat to the state of israel,'' the statement added. defense minister israel katz called the strikes ``a clear message to the hezbollah terror organization, which is plotting to rebuild its invasion-of-israel capabilities through the radwan force, and also to the lebanese government, which is responsible for upholding the agreement.'' ``we will strike every terrorist and thwart any threat to the residents of the north and to the state of israel, and we will respond with maximum force against any attempt [by hezbollah] to rebuild,'' he added. israel has carried out dozens of strikes in southern lebanon targeting hezbollah operatives and arms since reaching a ceasefire with the group in november following several weeks of intense fighting, while attacks deeper inside lebanon are less common. there was no immediate comment from the lebanese government about tuesday's strikes, though the official national news agency reported that ``enemy warplanes launched a raid'' southeast of baalbek, the main city in the region. the rugged beqaa valley is seen as a stronghold for hezbollah, and had been considered a key conduit for smuggling weapons into lebanon via syria before hezbollah ally bashar al-assad was ousted from the leadership of syria late last year. on sunday, the idf said israeli troops had raided military facilities of the deposed syrian regime last week, seizing some three tons of weapons. it indicated that the arms had been intended to be smuggled into lebanon. according to israel, the radwan force had in recent years planned to carry out a large-scale invasion of northern israel, but was forced to shelve the scheme after hamas attacked southern israel from gaza on october 7, 2023, plunging the region into war. a day after the attack, hezbollah began firing rockets, drones, and anti-tank missiles at northern israeli communities, carrying out attacks on a near-daily basis in solidarity with hamas. the rocket fire displaced some 60,000 residents of northern israel. in a bid to ensure their safe return, israel stepped up operations in lebanon in september, leading to two months of open warfare with hezbollah in which the terror group's leadership and arsenal were decimated. a ceasefire in november largely stopped the fighting, but israeli strikes against hezbollah operatives have continued on a regular basis. the agreement allows israel to strike imminent threats, though jerusalem is required to bring less urgent concerns to an international committee. hezbollah is currently under pressure from lebanon's western-backed government to disarm as part of an arrangement that could reportedly see israel halt attacks and pull its troops south of the border. mr. steube. we should put america first, not lebanon first and america last. madam chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from florida (mr. steube). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the noes appeared to have it. mr. steube. madam chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from florida will be postponed. amendment no. 287 offered by ms. tenney the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 287 printed in part a of house report 119-199. ms. tenney. madam chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 40, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $71,000,000) (increased by $71,000,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentlewoman from new york (ms. tenney) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from new york. ms. tenney. madam chair, i rise today to offer and withdraw my amendment no. 287 to provide $71 million for nonrecurring engineering expenses associated with designing the new lc-130j as part of lc-130 recapitalization project. lc-130s are polar ski planes that possess the unique capability of being able to land on snow instead of solely on a paved runway. the lc- 130 is the only plane in the world with this capability and provides the united states with a key competitive edge in the arctic and antarctic domains. the lc-130 fleet is wholly operated by the 109th airlift wing of the new york air national guard at stratton air national guard base in scotia, new york. beyond its national security importance in supporting our arctic strategy, the lc-130 fleet is also critical in supporting our nation's scientific research efforts. each year, the current lc-130 fleet assists in critical missions in both greenland and antarctica pursuant to president ronald reagan's presidential memorandum 6646. however, our current lc-130h fleet is aging quickly, with some planes over 50 years old. despite the great work of the 109th airlift wing in maintaining these planes, we must quickly recapitalize these planes to ensure the u.s. does not lose the critical capabilities provided by the lc-130 fleet. before i conclude, i want to thank bob epp and dennis feeney from the new york national guard's legislative team, general steven slosek from the 109th airlift wing, general michael bank, the new york air national guard commander; and general ray shields, the new york adjutant general, for their tireless efforts in advocating alongside me for the lc-130 recapitalization. last year, with the help of these individuals and chairman calvert, we were able to secure $29 million in the fy25 cr spend plan for the department of defense for these nonrecurring engineering expenses. rest assured, i will continue fighting to secure the additional funding in the final fy26 defense bill. before i withdraw this amendment, i ask chairman calvert to commit to working with me on the continued lc-130 recapitalization project as you have so graciously in the past. madam chair, i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from california (mr. calvert). [[page h3448]] {time} 1440 mr. calvert. madam chair, i look forward to working with the gentlewoman. we need a place for those aircraft to land in greenland. ms. tenney. madam chair, that is a mission of our president, of course. madam chair, i yield back the balance of my time, and i withdraw my amendment. the acting chair. the amendment is withdrawn. amendment no. 293 offered by mr. tiffany the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 293 printed in part a of house report 119-199. mr. tiffany. madam chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), add the following: sec. _. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be expended to create, procure, or display any map that depicts taiwan, kinmen, matsu, penghu, wuciou, green island, or orchid island as part of the territory of the people's republic of china. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 580, the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. tiffany) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from wisconsin. mr. tiffany. madam chair, my amendment would prohibit the department of defense from creating, procuring, or displaying any map which depicts taiwan as a part of the territory of the people's republic of china. the house approved a similar amendment as part of the state department appropriations bill last congress, and today's amendment would simply extend this policy to the department of defense. this is not a controversial amendment since all of us know that taiwan is not, nor has it ever been, part of communist china, even for a single day. the people of taiwan elect their own leaders, deploy their own armed forces, conduct their own foreign policy, and maintain their own trade agreements with other countries. by every measure, taiwan is a sovereign, democratic, and independent nation, and any claims to the contrary are simply false. since the 1970s, america's so-called one china policy has acknowledged beijing's unsubstantiated claims over taiwan. this is an antiquated and dishonest policy, and it is one that we should abandon. while my amendment will not end that misguided policy, it will at least require that the maps that we use reflect a simple reality: china is china. taiwan is taiwan. madam chair, i ask for a ``yes'' vote on my honest maps amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. mccollum. madam chair, i rise in opposition to this amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from minnesota is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. mccollum. madam chair, i understand why the gentleman from wisconsin is offering this, and i do not agree with the spirit in which it is being offered. the department of defense, the administration, this congress, and i have been pretty clear on opposition to the unwelcome assertions of china's control over taiwan. as a former social studies teacher, geography was part of what i would teach. i would never use or display in my classroom a map showing that china is in possession of taiwan, but let me take the teaching just one step further. this amendment would prevent the department of defense from buying or displaying a map that shows how china views itself in the world, how china is putting out mis- and disinformation on what they think the world should look like according to them. it would force the department, in my opinion, to put its head in the sand when showing at the military academies china's view of the world and why we have to work so hard to defeat that. i hope we can all agree that it is important to know what our allies and our adversaries are thinking and that we have adults at our military academies who can sort out the difference and see the differences in the maps. as a geography teacher and a person who used to use maps, that is my only opposition to the gentleman's amendment. i know what he is getting at. i do not disagree with it, but sometimes you have to have what your enemy has, how they view the world and what they are showing the world, in juxtaposition to how we view the world and how taiwan needs to remain independent. congress and the department should focus our time and energy on being clear about china with respect to international boundaries and rule of law. as a geography teacher, i had to say something, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. tiffany. madam chair, i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from california (mr. calvert). mr. calvert. madam chair, i certainly rise in support of the amendment. the amendment prohibits the expenditure of funds to create, procure, or display any map that depicts taiwan as part of the territory of the people's republic of china. let us be clear: taiwan is not a part of the people's republic of china. we should not appease the desires of the communist chinese leadership by pretending that it is. our maps should accurately reflect this reality. madam chair, i urge my colleagues to support the amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. tiffany. madam chair, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from arizona (mr. biggs). mr. biggs of arizona. madam chair, taiwan is a great friend of the united states, and it is a unique friend to arizona. the ccp uses every tool it can, including maps, to undermine truth and assert illegitimate claims over sovereign territory. congress should not fund anything that supports the ccp's disinformation efforts, and now is the time for strategic clarity, with rising bellicosity coming from the ccp. we cannot allow authoritarian regimes to dictate how our government communicates facts. if we truly stand for freedom, sovereignty, and truth, then we must also stand with taiwan. this is one way to do so. mr. tiffany. madam chair, i will close by saying that i appreciate the consistency by the gentlewoman from minnesota because she said the same thing a couple of years ago. yet, this body was excluded back in 1979 when the one china policy was implemented by president carter, and it is up to this body to make sure that it claims its rightful place in foreign policy when we have an issue like this before us. the gentlewoman talks about the spirit of this amendment. this amendment is issued in the spirit of freedom, and that is all that taiwan is looking for, to defend its freedom, and it should be able to do it. madam chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. tiffany). the amendment was agreed to. the acting chair. the chair understands that amendment no. 303 will not be offered. mr. calvert. madam chair, i move that the committee do now rise. the motion was agreed to. accordingly, the committee rose; and the speaker pro tempore (mr. fine) having assumed the chair, ms. malliotakis, acting chair of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union, reported that that committee, having had under consideration the bill (h.r. 4016) making appropriations for the department of defense for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2026, and for other purposes, had come to no resolution thereon. ____________________