[congressional record volume 163, number 108 (friday, june 23, 2017)] [house] [pages h5114-h5123] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] accelerating individuals into the workforce act general leave mr. smith of nebraska. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members have 5 legislative days within which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous materials on h.r. 2842. the speaker pro tempore (mr. newhouse). is there objection to the request of the gentleman from nebraska? there was no objection. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to house resolution 396 and rule xviii, the chair declares the house in the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the consideration of the bill, h.r. 2842. the chair appoints the gentleman from california (mr. denham) to preside over the committee of the whole. {time} 0911 in the committee of the whole accordingly, the house resolved itself into the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the consideration of the bill (h.r. 2842) to provide for the conduct of demonstration projects to test the effectiveness of subsidized employment for tanf recipients, with mr. denham in the chair. the clerk read the title of the bill. the chair. pursuant to the rule, the bill is considered read the first time. the gentleman from nebraska (mr. smith) and the gentleman from illinois (mr. danny k. davis) each will control 30 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from nebraska. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. chairman, i rise in support to talk about h.r. 2842, the accelerating individuals into the workforce act. according to the bureau of labor statistics, there are more than 6 million job openings, the highest level since the government started tracking the data in the year 2000. at the same time, the share of americans participating in the workforce is near a four-decade low. [[page h5115]] moving welfare recipients into employment is a central goal of the temporary assistance for needy families program, or tanf. yet only half of all tanf recipients receiving cash assistance are working or preparing for work. some tanf recipients have a difficult time transitioning from welfare into a job, so these types of on-the-job work experiences aid in the transition. the same goes for employers who may be reluctant to hire welfare recipients with limited work experience or other barriers to working. so the question is: how can we bridge the gap? how do we connect out- of-work americans with all of the employers who want and need to fill job openings? h.r. 2842, sponsored by congressman curbelo of florida and congressman davis of illinois, encourages employers to work with state and local agencies to hire tanf recipients. states would only be able to use this money to provide benefits to those who are working, providing paychecks in lieu of benefit checks, a key tenet to welfare reform. employers would take the lead by partnering with state and local agencies to hire tanf recipients, providing recipients with highly valued work experience and on-the-job training, including apprenticeships. earn-and-learn models help people become familiar with the workplace, gain needed skills, and earn a wage. the bill reserves up to $100 million for 1 year from the tanf contingency fund, which has already been extended through the end of fiscal year 2018 to subsidize up to 50 percent of a tanf recipient's wage for no more than 12 months. fifteen percent of the funds would be set aside for career pathway programs, which combine work, training, and other supports to help individuals enter the workforce and move up the economic ladder. finally, high-quality evaluations would be used to determine whether these public-private partnerships were effective in helping welfare recipients move into jobs and retain work. there is broad support from the employer community for helping low- skilled americans gain on-the-job experience, and there is plenty of support here and across the country for tying government assistance to work or work preparation for those who are able-bodied. decades of experience tells us the most effective anti-poverty program is a job. it is helping low-income americans earn success through the dignity of work. mr. chairman, i appreciate the opportunity to stand with mr. curbelo in supporting this bill today, and i reserve the balance of my time. {time} 0915 mr. danny k. davis of illinois. mr. chairman, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i strongly support h.r. 2842, the accelerating individuals into the workforce act, which is better known as tanf. this important bill modernizes the tanf contingency fund to promote effective job training programs, such as subsidized jobs, career pathways, and apprenticeship programs. research is clear. subsidized employment, career pathways, and apprenticeship programs successfully engage people in employment, especially those who have been unsuccessful in finding paid employment through their efforts. further research on past tanf subsidized employment programs document that these initiatives increase employment and earnings both while individuals worked in a subsidized job as well as after the program ended. also, studies show that states operated these programs that provided tremendous benefit at very reasonable cost. many states used the tanf emergency funds to establish effective subsidized employment programs. using these tanf emergency funds in illinois, former governor pat quinn implemented the very successful put illinois to work program that directly created over 26,000 jobs, helping close to 5,000 employees in illinois. nationally, the tanf emergency funds created 260,000 jobs. good subsidized employment programs have three characteristics that make them an attractive part of tanf: they are able to increase employment quickly; they help some of the individuals who face the greatest challenges enter the workforce and stay there; and, when funded on a large scale, they can help boost local economies. for these reasons, democrats have proposed subsidized employment within tanf for years. my friend and colleague from wisconsin, gwen moore, initially proposed allowing subsidized employment in tanf via her rise act many years ago. i embraced her idea in my responsible fatherhood bill, and i am pleased to join with representative curbelo on this effort. if we are truly committed to helping families work their way out of poverty, we will need to do much more to strengthen tanf. we will need to ensure that states actually spend tanf money on tanf recipients. we need to improve access to education and training, critical changes that both republican and democratic witnesses have emphasized over and over again. we need to improve childcare so parents can actually go to work. this bill is a good bill. it makes a small, positive step forward on our path to more comprehensive improvements to tanf. i strongly support it. i reserve the balance of my time. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i yield 5 minutes to the distinguished gentleman from florida (mr. curbelo), the lead sponsor of the bill. mr. curbelo of florida. mr. chairman, i rise today in strong support of h.r. 2842, the accelerating individuals into the workforce act. here in the house, we have prioritized helping americans escape poverty, and we are working to create policies that are focused on getting individuals into jobs so they can achieve self-sufficiency. a job is something that dignifies the human condition. it is an opportunity for every individual to make a contribution to their family, their local community, and to our country. this bill is an innovative solution that will give more people access to that opportunity. through proposals like h.r. 2842, we can help struggling americans find work and get on the path to success. this bipartisan legislation connects americans looking for work with employers looking to fill job openings, including through apprenticeships and other forms of on-the-job training. it uses $100 million from the tanf contingency fund for grants so states can conduct demonstration projects intended to assist tanf recipients in entering the workforce and maintaining employment. importantly, this legislation requires that states meet certain criteria to ensure they achieve their intended goal. this includes a description of how local governments will coordinate these efforts with others that assist low-income individuals. states must also report on the outcomes of the demonstration projects and provide evaluations to determine whether such employer-led partnerships were effective. this bill empowers states, giving them the ability to take into account their own unique challenges and design programs that meet both their employers' and job seekers' needs, rather than a top-down washington approach. this legislation has support from our business leaders. i include this letter of support in the record. business roundtable, washington, dc, june 20, 2017. hon. carlos curbelo, house of representatives, washington, dc. hon. danny k. davis, house of representatives, washington, dc. dear representative curbelo and representative davis: business roundtable appreciates your bipartisan efforts to bring more people into the workforce who currently have few skills and lack job experience. your bill, h.r. 2842, the accelerating individuals into the workforce act, is a thoughtful approach for encouraging companies to hire recipients of temporary assistance for needy families (tanf). we are pleased to support it. business roundtable ceos believe earn-and-learn programs help people become familiar with the workplace, gain needed skills, and earn a wage. in many inner cities, the unemployment rate for young people is distressingly high, but their prospects improve dramatically if they find a first- time job. by supporting partnerships among business, government, and education to hire [[page h5116]] tanf recipients, the accelerating individuals into the workforce act will give the unemployed an opportunity to work and succeed. sincerely, wes bush, chair, education and workforce committee, business roundtable; chairman, chief executive officer and president, northrop grumman corporation. mr. curbelo of florida. mr. chairman, i was happy to partner with representative danny davis on this effort to move individuals from welfare into long-term employment, and i am proud of the work we have done together. i would also like to thank chairman brady and subcommittee chairman adrian smith for their leadership and hard work, as well as rosemary lahasky, anne decesaro, and the rest of the house committee on ways and means staff who have worked on this legislation. mr. chairman, if i may add one thing. last week, in the wake of the tragic shooting against members of congress, we all vowed to come together, to find common ground. the committee on ways and means answered that call, and i am very confident that this house will do the same later today. the american people expect us to have our differences, our disagreements, but they also expect us to find common ground; and republicans and democrats have done this today in favor of those who need it most, welfare recipients, needy families in our country. i am very proud to sponsor this legislation, to support it, and i would ask all of my colleagues to do the same. mr. danny k. davis of illinois. mr. chairman, i yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from texas (mr. doggett), who has worked on these issues for many, many terms and many years. mr. doggett. mr. chairman, i thank the gentleman and both my colleagues, though i respectfully disagree that this congress has placed any priority on helping get people out of poverty. indeed, when it comes to poverty in america, this congress has largely been silent. i think the congress itself is impoverished when it comes to ideas about how to lift people up into the middle class. we talk here so much about the middle class, and appropriately so, but there are millions of people out there who are struggling to just climb up that first or second rung of the economic ladder and work themselves into the middle class, and this congress is doing little, constructively, to assist them. the need for real and meaningful change is particularly evident in my home state of texas, where the state legislature has been so incredibly indifferent to this problem. there, one out of every four children is below the poverty level, and over one-third of all texans live in the shadow of poverty, meaning that their income is less than twice the poverty threshold. the corporation for enterprise development ranked texas near the bottom among all states on key measures related to financial security. now, here is what today's bipartisan bill does to respond to that, and it is really a story of the number one. of the several republican proposals that were originally advanced by now-speaker paul ryan two years ago, some introduced by republican colleagues and some containing good ideas, this is the one last bill standing. with the notable exception of a budget that is devastating to opportunities for poor americans, this is the one and only bill on temporary assistance for needy families, previously known as welfare, that republicans will even permit us to discuss on the floor of this house. this one very modest bill does not add one new dollar to address the challenges that those who want to rise from welfare to work need. it simply segregates $100 million from an existing fund for one year. now, get this: the fund from which they are segregating the $100 million from, donald trump is seeking to abolish the entire fund so that no moneys for this proposal will be available after one year. this bill gives the states no new flexibility, and no new authority. it does not authorize them to do anything that they cannot do today. indeed, some states--and i think my colleague from illinois referenced one of these--are already finding ways to, in appropriate situations, subsidize employment. what this bill does is to say that on this particular $100 million fund, as long as it lasts, until president trump eliminates it entirely, that the states must use the money in a particular way. in other words, it seeks to restrict the states who receive these moneys to require them to use it for one particular way to assist those who are in poverty. it is also significant that the trump budget cuts are so far-reaching in trying to undermine efforts to raise people out of poverty, and for those who are not able-bodied, to provide them the support that they need. this bill deals with a little less than one-half of one percent of the trump budget cuts. i believe, sincerely, that we need a better approach, that we have ideas on both sides of the aisle that are being blocked by a determination to not address root causes of poverty. first, we should support initiatives that strike at the early seeds of poverty, like the home visiting program that will expire in a mere three months, which helps to improve opportunities for at-risk children and helps their parents be the parents they want to be; and certainly, early childhood education is a key part of that. second, we should increase efforts to help people gain the skills they need to secure jobs through which they can support their families at a living wage, and that is the challenge here. sure, some employers will love to have taxpayers subsidize their workforce, pay part of the wages that they would otherwise have to pay, and sometimes this is a valuable support, particularly for people that are reentering our society after incarceration and other groups of particularly hard-to- place employees. but for many folks, the big question is, when the subsidy ends, when the taxpayer stops paying, will there be a job there? is there a job ladder that will allow that person to work themselves up, or are they essentially participating in minimum wage employment that will not support their family and will not provide them a future? there are in-demand skills-training programs that do work and do offer an alternative, but they are not free. they take an investment. an example is project quest in san antonio. the chair. the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. danny k. davis of illinois. i yield the gentleman an additional 2 minutes. mr. doggett. mr. chairman, project quest has an 86 percent job placement rate for its graduates, who boost their incomes, on average, from $10,000 a year before entering the program to $40,000 a year. i know there are similar programs in other parts of the country that do the same. they are not subsidized employment, but they are working with poor people to get the skills that they need for an in-demand job and working with local employers to find out what types of jobs are most needed. in many parts of america, our economy is being held back by a lack of qualified workers. then, one of the areas that is so important to all parents, but particularly to single moms that are in poverty, is childcare. president trump is proposing not one, but three cuts to childcare, cutting out hundreds of millions of dollars of support to childcare, which stands in the way of many individuals from working their way out of poverty. i believe that we need to be working together to try to find genuine solutions and that working together is not just here in this house, in congress, because the big problem here is that, when we voted in 1996-- and i voted for it, for moving from welfare to work--we expected the states to be partners in that effort. today, as much as we talk about work and getting from welfare to work, exactly 8 cents out of every dollar being spent on the temporary assistance for needy families program--8 cents--goes to work supports. and not very much more than that goes to childcare, and president trump, of course, wants to reduce that. it is only by having a comprehensive program that is really focused on the roots of poverty and assisting those [[page h5117]] who would help themselves that the promise of that welfare law can become effective. unfortunately, while we did change fundamentally and end welfare as we know it, it became welfare for republican governors who wanted to use these federal moneys not to assist the poor, but to assist their states fill various budget gaps. we have a great example of where block grants fail. i hope we can find ways to succeed. {time} 0930 mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. chairman, i appreciate the efforts here today of my colleague from illinois (mr. danny k. davis) and the gentleman from florida (mr. curbelo) working together focusing on solutions. mr. chairman, we know that, this day and age, it is very easy to identify the problems and the challenges that our country faces. it is a little more difficult to come up with the solutions and bring people together. i appreciate the efforts of both sides coming together today. i truly believe that the solutions to our challenges are out in the communities where needy families live, and we know we have many needy families across our country for various reasons. america is a big country. and when you look at the challenges that individuals might face economically, i hope that we can come together as americans to focus on growing our economy, growing opportunity, hoping that we see, as our number one responsibility, the need to provide for opportunity in the future. we cannot set certain and determine certain outcomes, but we can certainly measure the outcomes from our efforts here in washington. that is why this bill, very importantly, requires states to report on outcomes through this program. we know that we need to provide more flexibility for states. this does exactly that, and, even more so, with communities. as we do get the feedback from the states, i hope that we will heed their advice because they are the folks who are more in touch with the needs of their various communities around their jurisdictions, all 50 states. mr. chairman, they are experts, and i hope that we can work together with them here, on both sides of the aisle, in washington, but also all across america with very diverse needs for needy families. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. danny k. davis of illinois. mr. chairman, i yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from wisconsin (ms. moore), a fierce advocate for low- income people. ms. moore. mr. chairman, i thank ranking member danny davis. i rise to express support for h.r. 2842, accelerating individuals into the workforce act. i do, again, want to thank my dear friend, representative davis, for recognizing the importance of subsidizing jobs as something that was featured in my rise out of poverty bill, and i applaud this bipartisan bill as a small step in the right direction. now, this bill calls for a demonstration project, which would show progress toward reducing poverty in our country through a 1-year test of subsidized employment programs. but i would note, mr. chairman, that it certainly does not tackle the larger shortcomings of tanf, which is in desperate need of reform. if enacted, this bill would exhibit a great start at helping tanf recipients obtain short-term employment. however, methods to retain long-term employment through higher education and childcare options for tanf recipients are still needed. i do want to point out, mr. chairman, that contrary to popular notions of welfare recipients--i have been a welfare recipient myself-- people on public assistance do, in fact, want to work, but they want to work at a wage that is sustainable. they want to work at a job that includes training opportunities. they want to work at jobs that provide them with a career ladder, and they, certainly, want to work at a job that will bring them out of poverty--something that will help them work in a durable, lasting fashion. since i have a little bit more time than i thought i was going to have, i just want to point out that it is a little-known fact that current law under tanf actually requires welfare recipients to do unwaged work. how absurd is that? who in this body, mr. chairman, would work for absolutely nothing? i want to note that the proposed funding mechanism in h.r. 2842 does not appear in my rise out of poverty bill. tanf funds are woefully inadequate already. they are pegged to a 1994 appropriations, and, certainly, this flat funding would inure to the detriment of the entire tanf program. mr. chair, i urge members to support this bill. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i am prepared to close if there are no more speakers. i reserve the balance of my time. mr. danny k. davis of illinois. mr. chair, i yield myself the balance of my time. i want to, first of all, commend mr. curbelo for his leadership on this issue, and i certainly agree with him that we have found enough common ground to be here this morning with a bill that we can pass, but i also agree with my friend from texas (mr. doggett), that there are many shortcomings to helping individuals actually realize the potential that they have to move beyond poverty to sustainable employment so that they can have a level of living and a level of expectation which gives them the energy that they need to keep moving forward. there are some improvements that we certainly need to make. we can allow greater education and training. every time witnesses come before us, they always tell us that, no matter whether they are billed as republican or democrat, or with no political stripe. we should improve tanf for kinship caregivers. we should remove the lifetime ban on felony drug convictions. just imagine, that these individuals will never ever have the opportunity to experience the benefits of this program, or of this effort. we should remove the 60-month time limit during recessions, and we should remove the ban to assist unwed teen parents and other youth who are displaced. so clearly, we do have agreement this morning, and i am delighted to be a part of it, but i certainly hope that my colleagues will look at those unmet needs that the legislation does not cover. i urge its support, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. chairman, i appreciate mr. curbelo and mr. davis for their leadership on this issue, and then colleagues from both sides coming together in a bipartisan way so that we can help more americans get back to work. this bill requires high-quality evaluations to determine whether these public-private partnerships are effective in helping welfare recipients move into jobs. these evidence-based results will be used to inform future policy decisions to reform our welfare system, similar to the approach taken in the mid-1990s. i look forward to working with my colleagues on these important issues so more americans can earn a wage and feel the dignity of work. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the chair. all time for general debate has expired. pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be considered for amendment under the 5-minute rule. in lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the committee on ways and means, printed in the bill, it shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the 5-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of rules committee print 115-22. that amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. the text of the amendment in the nature of a substitute is as follows: h.r. 2842 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``accelerating individuals into the workforce act''. [[page h5118]] sec. 2. demonstration projects to support subsidized employment for tanf recipients to enter the workforce. section 403 of the social security act (42 u.s.c. 603) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(c) subsidized employment demonstration projects.-- ``(1) in general.--the secretary shall make grants to states to conduct demonstration projects, at least one of which shall fund programs that offer apprenticeships registered under the act of august 16, 1937 (commonly known as the `national apprenticeship act'; 50 stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 u.s.c. 50 et seq.), designed to implement and evaluate strategies that provide wage subsidies to enable low-income individuals to enter into and retain employment. ``(2) application requirements.--the secretary shall require each state that applies for a grant under this subsection to do the following: ``(a) describe how wage subsidies will be provided (such as whether paid directly to the employer or the individual), the duration of the subsidies, the amount of the subsidies, the structure of the subsidies, and how employers will be recruited to participate in the subsidized employment program. ``(b) describe how the state expects those participating in subsidized employment to be able to retain employment after the subsidy ends. ``(c) describe how the state will coordinate subsidized employment funded under this subsection with other efforts to help low-income individuals enter work as conducted by the state. ``(3) use of funds.-- ``(a) in general.--a state to which a grant is made under this subsection may use the grant to subsidize the wages of an eligible recipient for a period not exceeding 12 months, and only to the extent that the total of the funds paid under this project and any other federal funds so used with respect to the recipient does not exceed 50 percent of the amount of the wages received by the recipient during the period. ``(b) eligible recipient.--for purposes of subparagraph (a), an eligible recipient is-- ``(i)(i) a recipient of assistance under the state program funded under this part or any other state program funded with qualified state expenditures (as defined in section 409(a)(7)(b)(i)); or ``(ii) a noncustodial parent of a minor child who is receiving assistance referred to in subclause (i); ``(ii) who, at the time the subsidy begins, is unemployed; and ``(iii) whose income, at that time, is less than 200 percent of the poverty line (as defined by the office of management and budget, and revised annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1981 (42 u.s.c. 9902(2))). ``(4) limitations.-- ``(a) nondisplacement.--a state to which a grant is made under this subsection shall ensure that no participant in a subsidized job program funded in whole or in part under this subsection is employed or assigned to a job under the program-- ``(i) when any other individual is on layoff from the same or any substantially equivalent job; or ``(ii) if the employer has terminated the employment of any regular employee or otherwise caused an involuntary reduction of its workforce in order to fill the vacancy so created with an adult described in paragraph (1). ``(b) grievance procedure.--a state with a program funded under this subsection shall establish and maintain a grievance procedure for resolving complaints of alleged violations of subparagraph (a). ``(c) no preemption.--nothing in this paragraph shall preempt or supersede any provision of state or local law that provides greater protection for employees from displacement. ``(5) reports.--as a condition of receiving funds under this subsection for a fiscal year, a state shall submit to the secretary, within 6 months after the end of the fiscal year, a report that-- ``(a) specifies, for each month of the fiscal year, the number of individuals whose employment is subsidized with these funds; ``(b) describes the structure of the state activities to use the funds to subsidize employment, including the amount and duration of the subsidies provided; ``(c) specifies the percentage of eligible recipients who received a subsidy who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after the subsidy ended; ``(d) specifies the percentage of eligible recipients who received a subsidy who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after the subsidy ended; and ``(e) specifies the median earnings of eligible recipients who received a subsidy who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after the subsidy ended. ``(6) evaluation.--the secretary, in consultation with each state conducting a demonstration project, shall conduct a high-quality evaluation of the demonstration project, and may reserve funds made available under this subsection to conduct the evaluation in accordance with the following: ``(a) evaluator qualifications.--the secretary may not enter into a contract with an evaluator unless the evaluator has demonstrated experience in conducting rigorous evaluations of program effectiveness including, where available and appropriate, well-implemented randomized controlled trials. ``(b) methodologies to be used.--the evaluation of a demonstration project shall use experimental designs using random assignment or other reliable, evidence-based research methodologies that allow for the strongest possible causal inferences when random assignment is not feasible. ``(c) public disclosure.--the secretary shall publish the results of the evaluation on the website of the department of health and human services in a location easily accessible by the public. ``(7) recommendations to congress.--the secretary shall submit recommendations to the committee on ways and means of the house of representatives and the committee on finance of the senate on how to increase the employment, retention, and advancement of individuals currently or formerly receiving assistance under a state program funded under this part or any other state program funded with qualified state expenditures (as defined in section 409(a)(7)(b)(i)). ``(8) funding.--of the amounts made available to carry out subsection (b) for fiscal year 2018, the secretary shall reserve $100,000,000 to carry out this subsection. ``(9) use of certain funds for career pathway programs.-- the secretary shall use 15 percent of the amounts reserved to carry out this subsection, to fund programs that offer career pathway (as defined in section 3(7) of the workforce innovation and opportunity act) services. ``(10) availability of funds.--funds provided to a state under this subsection in a fiscal year shall be expended by the state in the fiscal year or in the succeeding fiscal year.''. sec. 3. effective date. the amendment made by this act shall take effect on october 1, 2017. the chair. no amendment to that amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed in house report 115- 187. each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, by a member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question. amendment no. 1 offered by ms. foxx the chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 1 printed in house report 115-187. ms. foxx. mr. chairman, i have an amendment at the desk. the chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 2, line 2, before the period, insert the following: ``in an in-demand industry sector or occupation identified by the appropriate state or local workforce development board''. page 5, after line 13, insert the following: ``(c) describes the state's policies in effect during the fiscal year-- ``(i) to ensure nondisplacement as required under paragraph (4)(a); and ``(ii) to implement grievance procedures as required in (4)(b), including information on the number of grievance claims filed in the preceding fiscal year and the aggregate results of those claims;''. page 5, line 14, redesignate subparagraph (c) as subparagraph (d). page 5, line 18, redesignate subparagraph (d) as subparagraph (e). page 5, line 22, redesignate subparagraph (e) as subparagraph (f). the chair. pursuant to house resolution 396, the gentlewoman from north carolina (ms. foxx) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from north carolina. ms. foxx. mr. chairman, this amendment to h.r. 2842, accelerating individuals into the workforce act, would make two changes to the bill. the first part of the amendment would encourage the demonstration projects created under this bill to direct beneficiaries toward jobs in an in-demand industry sector or occupation, as identified by workforce boards in their states and local communities. today, in this country, there are approximately 6 million jobs that remain unfilled because they require technical skills and knowledge related specifically to an industry or occupation. if we want to help participants move from government assistance and hold a job, then we must set them on a path toward jobs and industries that are currently, and will remain, competitive in the evolving 21st century economy. the second part of my amendment would include in the reports from states that establish these demonstration projects information about their efforts to ensure nondisplacement of workers and to address grievance claims. congress' future decisions related to similar programs will be enhanced by having access to this information and data reported from the states. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. [[page h5119]] mr. danny k. davis of illinois. mr. chairman, i claim the time in opposition, although i am not opposed to the amendment. the chair. without objection, the gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes. there was no objection. mr. danny k. davis of illinois. mr. chairman, this amendment would further strengthen the protections against displacement of current employees. i think it is a goal that we all share to make sure that this bill expands employment, rather than just changing who is employed. i plan to support the gentlewoman's amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. ms. foxx. mr. chairman, as our economy continues to recover and evolve, it is critical that job seekers have the resources needed to gain the skills they need to compete for in-demand jobs. that was the aim of the workforce innovation and opportunity act that we passed in 2014, and my amendment encourages state agencies to coordinate with their workforce boards to continue these efforts. my amendment also would improve the information participating states submit about their demonstration projects, providing important data for decisionmakers in the future. i thank my colleagues for their consideration and ask for their support of this amendment and the underlying bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. the chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from north carolina (ms. foxx). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 2 offered by mr. bost the chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 2 printed in house report 115-187. mr. bost. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 2, line 20, after ``individuals'', insert ``, including individuals displaced or relocated from a public housing authority to an alternative public housing facility or placed on rental assistance,''. the chair. pursuant to house resolution 396, the gentleman from illinois (mr. bost) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from illinois. {time} 0945 mr. bost. mr. chairman, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. chairman, i rise today to provide relief to the people of cairo, illinois, and other communities across the country who have fallen victim to corruption in their local housing authorities. last year, the department of housing and urban development took control of alexander county housing authority in my district after decades of fraud and mismanagement. many of cairo's public housing units were falling apart, rating somewhere between dangerous and unlivable. all the while, the housing authority's senior staff continued to cash in: excessive pay, great benefits, large pension payouts, and big consulting contracts for former executive directors. all of this was paid for with taxpayers' money. an investigation by the southern illinoisan newspaper found local residents coping with leaking roofs, moldy living facilities, broken heating and air conditioning, rats, and cockroaches--unbelievable living conditions. this did not happen overnight. it happened after many years of neglect. the situation is so bad that the worst housing units in cairo are being destroyed, and families are being required to move. sadly, cairo's story is not unique. similar stories of mismanagement and fraud have occurred in housing authorities across the country. while i continue to fight for families in cairo, we must work to help those who have been relocated at no fault of their own. my amendment would require the state applications include plans to help these families transition to their new communities and find work. this will be an important step forward for americans already fighting to stay on their feet. mr. chairman, i urge my colleagues to support this amendment. i want to say to everyone, if they can, to support this amendment. i want everyone to know also that it is my hope that both state and federal authorities pursue, in this particular case, those who have abused the system, that they prosecute them, and that they are put in situations where they are in prison, because there they will receive better housing conditions than what they left these people with. now, this amendment deals with the fact of allowing them the opportunity to work and to step them up into a better life. but i hope and i pray that the people who are responsible for cairo and all these other facilities will be prosecuted to the full extent. mr. chairman, i yield back the balance of my time. the chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from illinois (mr. bost). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 3 offered by ms. bonamici the chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 3 printed in house report 115-187. ms. bonamici. mr. chairman, i have an amendment at the desk. the chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 2, after line 21, insert the following: ``(d) describe how the state will coordinate subsidized employment funded under this subsection with the federal work-study program, career pathway (as defined in section 3(7) of the workforce innovation and opportunity act) services, and other federal programs to help low-income individuals complete education and training programs and enter the workforce.''. the chair. pursuant to house resolution 396, the gentlewoman from oregon (ms. bonamici) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from oregon. ms. bonamici. mr. chairman, the amendment i am offering with my colleague, representative susan davis, strengthens coordination between subsidized employment through the temporary assistance for needy families, tanf, program, other federal workforce development programs, and the federal work-study program. the goal of the accelerating individuals into the workforce act is to help low-income individuals gain the experience and skills necessary for long-term success in the workforce and access to family-sustaining wages. yet studies of the long-term effects on unemployment from short- term, subsidized employment programs demonstrate differing outcomes, which is why i commend my colleagues for including robust reporting and evaluation requirements in the underlying bill. we already know that other efforts have clear long-term benefits. adults who attain postsecondary credentials and degrees are much more likely to be employed and much less likely to rely on public assistance. for example, about 90 percent of young adults who earn a bachelor's degree are employed. the employment rate for those who do not complete high school is just 48 percent. not surprisingly, the vast majority--approximately 93 percent--of tanf recipients did not attain education beyond high school. helping more low-income adults complete postsecondary credential programs and degrees is a proven strategy for reducing reliance on public assistance and promoting self-sufficient households. this is a bipartisan goal. our amendment advances this goal by helping to give more low-income parents high-quality work opportunities while enrolled in postsecondary programs. currently, the federal work-study program provides part-time jobs to students. studies show that those students who are lucky enough to get a federal work-study job have higher completion rates and are more likely to work in a position that aligns with their program of study. unfortunately, federal work-study alone cannot meet the demand for connecting low-income students with valuable, work-based learning opportunities. in fact, only about 2 percent of community college students participate in federal work-study. the subsidized employment program authorized in the bill we are debating today could help address this unmet need and target additional support to low-income student parents, helping [[page h5120]] them attain a credential or degree and vastly improving their long-term employment prospects. administering the subsidized employment program in conjunction with the federal work-study program requires coordination among state agencies and higher education institutions. my amendment encourages this coordination, and i encourage members to support it. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment, although i am not opposed to the amendment. the chair. without objection, the gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes. there was no objection. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i support this amendment. it requires states to coordinate efforts under this bill with other federal programs designed to help low-income individuals obtain the necessary skills to enter employment and climb the economic ladder. our federal welfare system is large, fragmented, and growing in cost. the nonpartisan congressional research service estimates that we currently operate over 80 programs that provide food, housing, healthcare, job training, education, energy assistance, and cash to low-income americans. reducing bureaucracy and streamlining a state's administration of employment and training services to low-income americans is a step in the right direction. mr. chairman, i urge my colleagues to support this amendment as well as supporting the underlying bill. i reserve the balance of my time. ms. bonamici. mr. chairman, a number of state programs leverage federal work-study funds to help tanf recipients who are enrolled in community college programs meet work requirements and get real-world experience in jobs that reinforce what they are studying. additionally, the government accountability office has recommended improving coordination between employment and training programs, and the department of health and human services guidelines on helping tanf recipients succeed in career pathways makes recommendations for using the federal work-study program in conjunction with tanf to boost the attainment of industry-recognized credentials. there is precedent and widespread support for improving the coordination of programs that help low-income individuals gain work experience to subsidize employment. again, our amendment does not require states to devote funds from tanf-subsidized employment programs to low-income student parents, but it does ask states to consider how they are using subsidized employment--whether through tanf or federal work-study--in concert to give more people the opportunity to earn a higher education degree or credential and, thereby, a significantly improved chance at finding a long-term, living-wage job. mr. chairman, i ask my colleagues to support this commonsense amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, again, i urge my colleagues to support this amendment as well as the underlying bill. mr. chairman, i yield back the balance of my time. mrs. davis of california. mr. chair, i am proud to support this amendment which would align the tanf program and the federal work study program. tanf, or the temporary assistance for needy families program, was created to help struggling families become self sufficient. we know that the best way to achieve this goal is to give people the resources they need to find quality jobs. this amendment would allow states to align employment efforts by coordinating with schools to help more students access work-study opportunities. and we know that these students are not the 18 year olds of decades past--they are older students with children, dependent parents, and more financial responsibilities. helping these students elevates entire families; helping these families elevates entire communities. i hope we can come together to support this amendment and support more working americans. the chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from oregon (ms. bonamici). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 4 offered by mr. krishnamoorthi the chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 4 printed in house report 115-187. mr. krishnamoorthi. mr. chairman, i have an amendment at the desk. the chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 5, line 9, before the semicolon, insert ``and the percentage of such individuals whose employment is in an area that matches their previous training and work experience''. the chair. pursuant to house resolution 396, the gentleman from illinois (mr. krishnamoorthi) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from illinois. mr. krishnamoorthi. mr. chairman, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i rise in support of my bipartisan amendment. i would like to thank my good friend, congressman lloyd smucker of pennsylvania, for helping me to introduce this amendment. right now what is being taught in classes does not necessarily align with what is needed to get a job. yesterday, the house passed a bipartisan bill unanimously that would make sure that there is stronger alignment and collaboration between career and technical education programs and the employers that will be hiring. our amendment would require that states report the percentage of subsidized individuals whose jobs match their previous experience. incentivizing states that opt into this pilot program expands on yesterday's bill to ensure that resources are being used as efficiently as possible by guiding students towards the jobs they were trained for. mr. chairman, i hope everybody will support passage of our amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i rise in opposition to the amendment, although i am not opposed. the chair. without objection, the gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes. there was no objection. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i support this amendment. this amendment provides further information to ensure we have high-quality evaluations requiring states to measure how many recipients entered employment in the same field they received on-the-job training. the more we know about how these programs work and their return on our investments is important when we make decisions down the road. mr. chairman, i urge my colleagues to support the amendment as well as the underlying bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. krishnamoorthi. mr. chairman, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. chairman, i thank the gentleman for his support. i urge all members to support this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from illinois (mr. krishnamoorthi). the question was taken; and the chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. krishnamoorthi. mr. chairman, i demand a recorded vote. the chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from illinois will be postponed. amendment no. 5 offered by mr. davidson the chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 5 printed in house report 115-187. mr. davidson. mr. chairman, i rise to offer an amendment. the chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 5, line 21, strike ``and''. page 5, line 25, strike the period and insert ``; and''. page 5, after line 25, insert the following: (f) specifies the number of eligible recipients who received a subsidy who concurrently received other federal or state means-tested benefits during their subsidized employment. the chair. pursuant to house resolution 396, the gentleman from ohio [[page h5121]] (mr. davidson) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from ohio. mr. davidson. mr. chairman, i rise today to offer an amendment that, if enacted, would provide additional data on the performance and effectiveness of the programs created under h.r. 2842, the accelerating individuals into the workforce act. in particular, my amendment would require states to include in their annual reports to the health and human services department whether individuals who participated in this demonstration project still need additional forms of federal or state assistance after the fact. the data point really shows whether they are truly independent of the safety net. the most meaningful solution to poverty is a job. i believe the data point outlined in my amendment will further help congress measure the performance of this program in the scope that should apply to all of our nation's welfare programs: placing people into meaningful work and helping them and their families achieve self-sufficiency. we need this data to ensure the project is truly working. when i worked in manufacturing, data was a vital component to solving problems. it showed me what worked best, what failed, and, most importantly, what needed to be changed and how to get to the root cause. the same science applies to solving problems here and to this program. too often we measure the success of our safety net programs based on dollars spent rather than effectiveness. fixing our welfare system is a sentiment shared by both sides of the aisle. this is a bipartisan bill, and i believe this legislation is a great step forward. additionally, my office has been working on another bill, the welfare brac act, which would create a bipartisan commission to review the 90- plus means-tested programs that spent nearly $850 billion a year. i hope one day to have a vote on that bill just as we are having one on this today. we need more deeds and not just words. this bill is a great step forward to solving the problem. there is widespread agreement on both sides of the aisle that our safety net is not accomplishing all it needs to. if enacted, my amendment would help us here in congress identify new methods to help our nation's most vulnerable by getting them into the workplace. {time} 1000 it is crucial that everyone has an equal opportunity to engage in our communities and contribute by earning financial independence through the dignity of work. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote in support of my amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. danny k. davis of illinois. mr. chairman, i rise in opposition to the amendment. the chair. the gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. danny k. davis of illinois. mr. chairman, this amendment would require states to collect and report information on whether participants were receiving income-related assistance like health insurance; child care assistance; school lunch; or the supplemental nutrition assistance program, or snap, benefits; rental subsidies; or perhaps even the earned income tax credit. the information the amendment requests is not relevant to what we are trying to learn from these demonstration projects, which is whether different approaches improve earnings and employment. asking for it is an invasion of the privacy of the individuals, with no research benefit. collecting this information also seems burdensome for states, and would likely require them to ask participating employers to ask their employees inappropriate personal questions that they would not ask of any other employee. most importantly, i am concerned that requiring states to collect information on these important work supports would make some states think that they are supposed to discourage participants from accessing these supports. both research and common sense clearly tell us that access to supports like child care assistance, healthcare, and wage supplements that pay for transportation and other work expenses make it more likely that individuals will succeed in work. we should do nothing that might discourage states from providing these supports to help workers succeed. we should do nothing that might cause individuals to not make use of what is available to them. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. davidson. mr. chairman, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from nebraska (mr. smith). mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i thank mr. davidson for his efforts. mr. chairman, i support this amendment. i hope that we can evaluate all of the programs that we have, coordinate among them, learn more about their effectiveness, and ultimately respect folks in need and do all we can that is appropriate to help lift themselves out of poverty. mr. davidson. mr. chairman, i urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this. sunlight brings truth. truth will set you free. my hope is truth will set folks free from the trap that many people find in multigenerational poverty. we really, truly want to help solve the problem and get the information that will help us make our systems work effectively. mr. chairman, i yield back the balance of my time. the chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from ohio (mr. davidson). the question was taken; and the chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. danny k. davis of illinois. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from ohio will be postponed. amendment no. 6 offered by mr. khanna the chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 6 printed in house report 115-187. mr. khanna. mr. chairman, i have an amendment at the desk. the chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 6, line 4, after ``project,'' insert ``including an analysis of the project's effect on eligible recipients who received additional credentialing and training during their subsidized employment or participation in an apprenticeship or career pathways program,''. page 7, line 10, insert at the end the following: ``such recommendations shall include recommendations on the effects of additional credentialing and training provided during subsidized employment or participation in an apprenticeship or career pathways program.''. the chair. pursuant to house resolution 396, the gentleman from california (mr. khanna) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from california. mr. khanna. mr. chairman, i rise today in support of h.r. 2842, the accelerating individuals into the workforce act. i would like to thank the sponsors of the bill, the gentleman from florida (mr. curbelo), and the gentleman from texas (mr. sessions). this bipartisan bill will assist low-income individuals by helping some of our most needy americans to enter the workforce and maintain their employment. i believe one of the top priorities for congress is to help our middle class by creating wealth in the middle class and to help the wages of the 50 percent of americans who have not had a wage raise since 1980. for far too long, many americans have seen falling incomes, which have left working families behind. my amendment is simple. it adds a requirements for the secretary of the department of health and human services to measure the effect that training and credentialing has on the recipients helped by this bill. the public report and recommendations to congress are already mandated by the original bill. this amendment will not affect the overall cost. there is a body of research demonstrating that providing education and training to tanf recipients makes people more likely to obtain good jobs and increase their wages. they are more likely to stay employed. the projects funded by this bill provide a great opportunity to add to this [[page h5122]] research so we can know how to better assist tanf recipients and other unemployed workers. i also want to thank the gentlewoman from washington, (ms. delbene), for her amendment to the bill during markup by the committee on ways and means. that amendment requires that at least one of the employment demonstration projects must be an apprenticeship program. i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support my amendment that seeks to add information that can be used to modernize our job training, credentialing, and apprenticeship program to match those seeking employment with our current job openings. mr. chairman, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i rise in opposition to the amendment, although i am not opposed. the chair. without objection, the gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes. there was no objection. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i support this amendment. this amendment simply requires that the high-quality evaluations include measurements or how many recipients participated in an apprentice or career pathway program, and any credentials earned along the way. earn-and-learn models--those where an individual is getting on-the- job experience, earning a wage, and learning new occupational skills-- are one of the best types of workforce development models the government can support. apprenticeships, in particular, provide a combination of occupational on-the-job training and related instruction, helping to improve worker training and address critical skill gaps that align with the needs of industry. we know that the best way out of poverty is through work, and apprenticeships provide a pathway to obtaining a successful career. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support this amendment as well as the underlying bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. the chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from california (mr. khanna). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 7 offered by mr. kilmer the chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 7 printed in house report 115-187. mr. kilmer. mr. chairman, i have an amendment at the desk. the chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 7, line 10, after the period, insert the following: ``such recommendations shall include recommendations on how to address employment-related challenges in rural areas and among members of federally recognized indian tribes.''. the chair. pursuant to house resolution 396, the gentleman from washington (mr. kilmer) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from washington. mr. kilmer. mr. chairman, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. chairman, i am here this morning to talk about the biggest thing on the minds of the folks that i represent: jobs. i am glad that we are having a discussion today about how to help people land a job that they can be proud of. whether i am at a vfw or a county fair, in a lot of the parts of the region that i represent, this is the concern that i hear more than anything else. today's bill would help people who are looking for work acquire skills that help them land a bigger paycheck and a better career. i am glad to offer an amendment with a fellow member of the bipartisan working group, representative valadao, to make sure that the bill that is passed does some good for rural communities and for our tribal partners as well. i know firsthand the challenges that small towns across america are facing. i grew up in a timber town in washington state and watched some of the parents of my friends and some of my neighbors lose their jobs as mills shut down. these men and women are the hardworking americans that want work, want training, and want careers. in short, they want a shot at a better life. that is what this bill will do. i commend mr. curbelo and mr. davis for bringing it forward. with our amendment, we can make sure that shot is extended to all communities, no matter their zip code. our amendment directs the secretary of health and human services to take a look at how to address employment challenges in rural areas and those challenges facing members of federally recognized native american tribes. it directs the secretary then to provide recommendations to congress on what fixes actually work best. when it comes to providing the training to get folks into quality jobs, we want to make sure that we are not flying blind. our amendment makes sure that we have all the information we need to make the right decisions and give folks who want a quality job a shot at that. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to the amendment, although i am not opposed. the chair. without objection, the gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes. there was no objection. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i support this amendment. the first hearing i held as chairman of the ways and means subcommittee on human resources was on the geography of poverty. people often think of poverty only as they see it in cities, not realizing poverty today is more common than ever in suburban and even rural areas. people also underestimate poverty in rural and remote areas, not knowing the rates of poverty in these areas have, for decades, been higher than in urban areas. this amendment ensures the secretary takes into account rural areas and indian tribes when making recommendations on how to address employment-related challenges. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support this amendment as well as support the underlying bill, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. kilmer. mr. chairman, i thank the gentleman for his support. and, again, i thank representatives curbelo and davis for their work on the underlying bill, and the cooperation of mr. valadao for working to address this challenge. mr. chairman, i urge adoption of the amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i urge my colleagues to support this amendment and the underlying bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair (mr. mitchell). the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from washington (mr. kilmer). the amendment was agreed to. announcement by the acting chair the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, proceedings will now resume on those amendments printed in house report 115-187 on which further proceedings were postponed, in the following order: amendment no. 4 by mr. krishnamoorthi of illinois. amendment no. 5 by mr. davidson of ohio. the chair will reduce to 2 minutes the minimum time for any electronic vote after the first vote in this series. amendment no. 4 offered by mr. krishnamoorthi the acting chair. the unfinished business is the demand for a recorded vote on the amendment offered by the gentleman from illinois (mr. krishnamoorthi) on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the ayes prevailed by voice vote. the clerk will redesignate the amendment. the clerk redesignated the amendment. recorded vote the acting chair. a recorded vote has been demanded. a recorded vote was ordered. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 380, noes 32, not voting 19, as follows: [roll no. 320] ayes--380 abraham adams aderholt aguilar allen amodei arrington bacon barletta barragan bass beatty bera bergman beyer bilirakis bishop (ga) bishop (mi) black blackburn blum blumenauer blunt rochester bonamici bost boyle, brendan f. brady (pa) brady (tx) brooks (in) [[page h5123]] brown (md) brownley (ca) buchanan buck bucshon budd bustos butterfield byrne calvert capuano carbajal cardenas carson (in) carter (ga) carter (tx) cartwright castor (fl) castro (tx) chabot chaffetz cheney chu, judy cicilline clark (ma) clarke (ny) clay cleaver clyburn coffman cohen cole collins (ga) collins (ny) comer comstock conaway connolly conyers cook cooper correa costa costello (pa) courtney cramer crawford crist crowley cuellar culberson curbelo (fl) davidson davis (ca) davis, danny davis, rodney defazio degette delaney delauro delbene demings denham dent desantis desaulnier deutch diaz-balart dingell doggett donovan doyle, michael f. duffy duncan (tn) dunn ellison emmer eshoo espaillat estes (ks) esty (ct) evans faso ferguson fitzpatrick fleischmann flores fortenberry foster foxx frankel (fl) franks (az) frelinghuysen fudge gallego garamendi gianforte gibbs gonzalez (tx) goodlatte gottheimer gowdy granger graves (la) graves (mo) green, al green, gene griffith grijalva grothman guthrie gutierrez hanabusa harper hartzler hastings heck hensarling herrera beutler hice, jody b. higgins (la) higgins (ny) hill himes holding hollingsworth hoyer hudson huffman huizenga hultgren hunter hurd issa jackson lee jayapal jeffries jenkins (ks) jenkins (wv) johnson (ga) johnson (la) johnson (oh) johnson, e. b. jordan joyce (oh) kaptur katko keating kelly (il) kelly (pa) kennedy khanna kihuen kildee kilmer kind king (ia) king (ny) kinzinger knight krishnamoorthi kuster (nh) kustoff (tn) labrador lahood lamborn lance langevin larson (ct) latta lawrence lawson (fl) lee levin lewis (ga) lewis (mn) lipinski lobiondo loebsack lofgren loudermilk love lowenthal lowey lucas luetkemeyer lujan grisham, m. lujan, ben ray lynch macarthur maloney, carolyn b. maloney, sean marino marshall mast matsui mccarthy mccaul mcclintock mccollum mceachin mcgovern mchenry mckinley mcmorris rodgers mcnerney mcsally meadows meehan meeks meng mitchell moolenaar mooney (wv) moore moulton mullin murphy (fl) murphy (pa) nadler neal newhouse noem nolan norcross nunes o'halleran o'rourke pallone palmer panetta pascrell paulsen payne perlmutter peters peterson pingree pittenger pocan poliquin polis price (nc) quigley raskin ratcliffe reed reichert rice (ny) rice (sc) roby roe (tn) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rohrabacher rokita rooney, francis rooney, thomas j. ros-lehtinen rosen roskam ross rothfus rouzer roybal-allard royce (ca) ruiz ruppersberger rush russell rutherford ryan (oh) sanchez sanford sarbanes schakowsky schiff schneider schrader schweikert scott (va) scott, austin scott, david sensenbrenner serrano sessions sewell (al) shea-porter sherman shimkus shuster simpson sinema sires slaughter smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (tx) smith (wa) smucker soto stefanik stewart stivers suozzi swalwell (ca) takano taylor tenney thompson (ca) thompson (ms) thompson (pa) thornberry tipton titus tonko torres trott tsongas turner upton valadao vargas veasey vela velazquez visclosky wagner walberg walden walker walorski walters, mimi walz waters, maxine watson coleman webster (fl) welch wenstrup westerman williams wilson (fl) wilson (sc) womack woodall yarmuth yoder young (ak) young (ia) zeldin noes--32 amash babin banks (in) barr barton biggs bishop (ut) brat brooks (al) burgess desjarlais duncan (sc) farenthold gaetz gallagher gohmert graves (ga) harris jones kelly (ms) marchant massie messer olson palazzo pearce perry poe (tx) posey weber (tx) wittman yoho not voting--19 bridenstine cummings engel gabbard garrett gosar johnson, sam lamalfa larsen (wa) lieu, ted long napolitano pelosi renacci richmond scalise speier tiberi wasserman schultz {time} 1042 messrs. burgess, wittman, posey, and perry changed their vote from ``aye'' to ``no.'' messrs. woodall, reed, rokita, and lamborn changed their vote from ``no'' to ``aye.'' so the amendment was agreed to. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. mr. smith of nebraska. mr. chairman, i move that the committee do now rise. the motion was agreed to. accordingly, the committee rose; and the speaker pro tempore (mr. ferguson) having assumed the chair, mr. mitchell, acting chair of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union, reported that that committee, having had under consideration the bill (h.r. 2842) to provide for the conduct of demonstration projects to test the effectiveness of subsidized employment for tanf recipients, had come to no resolution thereon. ____________________