[congressional record volume 169, number 22 (thursday, february 2, 2023)] [house] [pages h635-h643] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] denouncing the horrors of socialism mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, pursuant to house resolution 83, i call up the concurrent resolution (h. con. res. 9) denouncing the horrors of socialism, and ask for its immediate consideration in the house. the clerk read the title of the concurrent resolution. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to house resolution 83, the concurrent resolution is considered read. the text of the concurrent resolution is as follows: h. con. res. 9 whereas socialist ideology necessitates a concentration of power that has time and time again collapsed into communist regimes, totalitarian rule, and brutal dictatorships; whereas socialism has repeatedly led to famine and mass murders, and the killing of over 100,000,000 people worldwide; whereas many of the greatest crimes in history were committed by socialist ideologues, including vladimir lenin, joseph stalin, mao zedong, fidel castro, pol pot, kim jong il, kim jong un, daniel ortega, hugo chavez, and nicolas maduro; whereas tens of millions died in the bolshevik revolution, at least 10,000,000 people were sent to the gulags in the union of soviet socialist republics (ussr), and millions more starved in the terror-famine (holodomor) in ukraine; whereas between 15,000,000 and 55,000,000 people starved to death in the wake of famine and devastation caused by the great leap forward in china; whereas the socialist experiment in cambodia led to the killing fields in which over a million people were gruesomely murdered; whereas up to 3,500,000 people have starved in north korea, dividing a land of freedom from a land of destitution; whereas the castro regime in cuba expropriated the land of cuban farmers and the businesses of cuban entrepreneurs, stealing their possessions and their livelihoods, and exiling millions with nothing but the clothes on their backs; whereas the implementation of socialism in venezuela has turned a once-prosperous nation into a failed state with the world's highest rate of inflation; whereas the author of the declaration of independence, president thomas jefferson, wrote, ``to take from one, because it is thought that his own industry and that of his fathers has acquired too much, in order to spare to others, who, or whose fathers have not exercised equal industry and skill, is to violate arbitrarily the first principle of association, the guarantee to every one of a free exercise of his industry, and the fruits acquired by it.''; whereas the ``father of the constitution'', president james madison, wrote that it ``is not a just government, nor is property secure under it, where the property which a man has in his personal safety and personal liberty, is violated by arbitrary seizures of one class of citizens for the service of the rest''; and whereas the united states of america was founded on the belief in the sanctity of the individual, to which the collectivistic system of socialism in all of its forms is fundamentally and necessarily opposed: now, therefore, be it resolved by the house of representatives (the senate concurring), that congress denounces socialism in all its forms, and opposes the implementation of socialist policies in the united states of america. the speaker pro tempore. the concurrent resolution shall be debatable for 1 hour, equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on financial services or their respective designees. the gentleman from north carolina (mr. mchenry) and the gentlewoman from california (ms. waters) each will control 30 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from north carolina. {time} 0945 general leave mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material thereon. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from north carolina? there was no objection. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, this resolution is a simple one. it states that the congress denounces socialism in all its forms and opposes the implementation of socialist policies in the united states of america. it is a statement that i would hope all elected leaders in the united states could support. despite my democratic colleagues' claims, there is nothing in this resolution about entitlement programs or banning social services or anything of the like. in fact, i would encourage anyone who has doubts to actually go and read the resolution--it will not take long. it outlines the pain and hardship experienced by millions around the world who have suffered under a socialist regime. this is something the sponsor of the resolution, ms. salazar of florida, can speak to personally. congresswoman salazar is the daughter of cuban exiles and was born in miami's little havana. h. con. res. 9 is not just messaging or a waste of time--as some of my colleagues across the aisle said--it speaks to people who have known all too well the atrocities of socialism, and it gives voice to their pain. i thank congresswoman salazar for her work on this resolution, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise to oppose h. con. res. 9, and i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, yesterday in the committee on financial services, we organized and considered the committee's oversight plan. we debated homelessness and the lack of affordable housing, how to best protect consumers, and the need to strengthen diversity and inclusion across the financial services industry. we also discussed the threat to our nation's future if our country is forced to default on our debt 4 months from today. we do not always agree and, honestly, none of the democratic amendments were adopted, but it was a civil debate about the merits of policy. i believe all of our committee members recognize that the legislation that comes out of our committee has the potential to support wealth creation, grow small businesses, support affordable housing, and build a stable financial system and economy. it is the contrast with the intentionality and seriousness of the debate today that makes it so hard to understand why the very first piece of legislation to come to the floor under a rule is not a proposal to address the needs of any of our constituents, to provide support to struggling small businesses, or the community banks and credit unions that finance them. it certainly does not provide our markets with certainty that our country will not act recklessly and default on its debts; a situation that will bring untold harm to all of us in america. no, mr. speaker, this resolution today, in fact, does nothing except spread lies and fear about a threat that does not even exist. the rightwing extremists who are running this house have forced my committee to consider as its very first piece of legislation a bill that tries to say that our country will collapse in ruin because of-- wait for it--social security. the resolution suggests that because we support seniors with health insurance, our democracy will crumble. they think that because congress and the president have provided disaster relief to communities that have been burned by historic wildfires or flooded by once-in-a- generation hurricanes that we will fall into ruin. no, mr. speaker, americans take pride in the ways that we come together to do everything from building schools to sending a man to the moon. [[page h636]] mr. speaker, americans know better than the fear-mongering that we see here today. they know, for example, that when the pandemic hit and people were dying all across this country, it was the federal government that stepped in to provide trillions of dollars of support to small businesses, workers, renters, students, seniors--and would you believe it--even republican members of congress. in fact, the government, using taxpayer dollars, provided $14 million in ppp loans to a number of our house republicans who asked and then-- guess what--received debt forgiveness. now some republicans have tried to suggest that voting against this resolution is saying that you support dictators like pol pot, mao zedong or stalin, which is ridiculous. no one in this chamber supports them, but do you know which dictator my extremist colleagues refuse to condemn? oh, they did not say anything about hitler. mr. speaker, you have heard of him, right? my colleague, mr. gottheimer noticed that somehow the republicans just forgot to condemn hitler and offered an amendment to denounce his atrocities and mass murder. but republicans rejected it. and i think we know why. it is because donald trump--your true leader, the true leader of the republicans and north star for house republicans--was reported to have frightened his own staff by saying that hitler had done some good things. there is only one would-be authoritarian who refused to accept the will of our voters and peacefully transfer of power after losing his election. instead, he incited a violent insurrection on january 6 to block the election's certification that was happening in this very chamber, but you will not see his name in this resolution or his strongman pals that he loves so much in russia and china. mr. speaker, we are a great nation, not because we let everyone fend for themselves, but because we care for one another. we are a great nation that comes together as communities as small as towns and as large as a whole nation to decide to organize and collectively pay for fire departments, public schools, libraries, hospitals, roads, and bridges, and a military. we are a better nation because we have programs that we love. we love social security and medicare. we are going to fight every inch of the way to ensure that we keep social security and medicare. we are not going to let the opposite side of the aisle take away our seniors' social security and medicare. i will say it again--social security and medicare. we are a better nation because our form of capitalism includes regulatory safeguards and strong cops on the beat patrolling our financial system, like the consumer financial protection bureau. mr. speaker, i urge you and the majority to stop these divisive ``gotcha'' tactics. get out of the way, and let my committee and this congress pass real legislation that puts the needs of our constituents and nation first. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from arkansas (mr. hill), the vice chair of the financial services committee. mr. hill. mr. speaker, the sound that america is hearing is their alarm going off. it is groundhog day. i feel like bill murray because, mr. speaker, when the alarm goes off every morning, the ranking member of the house financial services committee is off on a rant about the former president. i think it is important that we stay focused on what we are talking about today. it is a choice between freedom and something far worse. the american people know why we are on this floor today. we are on the floor today to support a resolution that denounces socialism. as a boy attending elementary school in little rock, one of my favorite teachers was a beautiful, young mother who taught us spanish. her kids were the playmates of mine during those early school years. her family had moved to little rock, escaping the castro regime in cuba that murdered their fellow citizens, took family farms and businesses, and systematically destroyed one of the most beautiful, successful countries and places on earth. for me, an early lesson in the cost of freedom. as a businessman in 1986, at the height of the cold war, i joined a civil society tour of east berlin led by the u.s. army via the famous checkpoint charlie. there one saw the stark and cruel contrast of freedom versus socialism and communism: vibrant businesses, full shelves, full employment in the west; and drab, sullen people in the east staring into empty store windows in buildings still bearing the bomb and bullet scars of world war ii. just 3\1/2\ years later, with the fall of the berlin wall, i represented president george h.w. bush as his deputy assistant secretary of the treasury in helping design and deliver u.s. economic and technical assistance to the citizens of the newly freed countries from socialism and communism from the baltic to the black sea, creating a rule of law, markets, private property rights, and new banking services. mr. speaker, i keep a piece of that berlin wall in my house office. it reminds me of the gruesome fact that the berlin wall was built to keep people in--not the other way around--and keep freedom out. today, some three decades later, one can witness the victory of capitalism and freedom over the authoritarianism and command and control of socialism. people of today's central europe want no part of communism or socialism. they know fully the brutality and failure of soviet-style authoritarian socialist domination; so much so, they have opened their homes to ukrainian mothers and kids. they opened their wallets to provide ukrainians money, military, and humanitarian assistance to expel the invading russia. mr. speaker, let us say ``no'' to socialism and ``yes'' to freedom and opportunity. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from new york (ms. velazquez). ms. velazquez. mr. speaker, i rise today in opposition to this resolution. i think it is important that we clarify what my colleagues on the other side of the aisle believe to be socialist policies. historically, republicans have tried to label as socialist any democratic actions that improve the lives of americans. in 1996, senator bob dole, the future republican presidential nominee, referred to public housing as ``one of the last bastions of socialism'' and called for an end to government-assisted housing programs. public housing in the united states provides decent and safe housing to 1.3 million families that are working class, elderly, or disabled. this is what republicans are calling socialism. the 12-point plan to rescue america that senate republicans released last year vowed to stop socialism and shrink the federal government by enacting extreme policies like putting social security and medicare on the chopping block. former house speaker newt gingrich promised that medicare would wither on the vine, thanks to spending cuts to combat what mr. gingrich dubbed ``big government socialism.'' {time} 1000 social security and medicare are hard-earned benefits that provide millions of seniors with healthcare and retirement funds every year. this is what republicans call socialism. from climate action and public education to the affordable care act and social security, republicans classify popular government programs to help working families as socialism. this resolution is a distraction from extremists and nothing more than a thinly veiled scare tactic directed toward voters. why is it that we are here wasting our time discussing a resolution about socialism? guess what? work on the budget. that is what you need to do. you refuse to work on the budget because you will have to tell the american people that you intend to cut benefits for social security and medicare. the speaker pro tempore. members are reminded to direct their remarks to the chair. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from texas (mr. williams), who is the chair of the small business committee and an advocate for capitalism. mr. williams of texas. mr. speaker, let me just ask you this: are we capitalist, or are we socialist? [[page h637]] i am glad to join my colleagues in denouncing socialism in all forms. socialism is the greatest threat to our economy and freedom and must be defeated. worldwide, socialism has led to the death of more than 100 million people, has forced thousands to flee in exile, and has turned prosperous nations into impoverished and hopeless nations. socialism is not winning in america and has no place in our country. we are a nation of opportunity and incentive and because of those principles, we are a nation of hope where everyone can benefit. what sets america apart from the rest of the world is the drive to reach our fullest potential coupled with a free market economy. it is what makes us the greatest economic engine in the world. the opposite of socialism is capitalism, and i am proud to call myself a capitalist. capitalism is about taking responsibility for what you create and making it even greater. it is about going from nothing to going to something. it is about taking risks and getting rewards, not government handouts or freebies. capitalism has been the greatest force in the history of our world for lifting people out of poverty, and we must instill this value that we have in future generations. as a small business owner for 52 years, i represent main street america. let me tell you, mr. speaker, the implications of what socialism would mean for our businesses are alarming and scary. main street was built by men and women who wanted to swing for the fences because, at the end of the day, there is a desire to dream bigger, to dream bolder, to turn dreams into a vision, and visions into reality. america must always lead the fight against socialism and communism. we must always defend the principles of the american dream and ensure our future generations have the same opportunities to build something for themselves. we must never forget the tragedies socialism has caused for countries around the world. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues--everybody--to support this resolution denouncing the horrors of socialism and opposing the implementation of socialist policies in the united states. bottom line: socialism bad, capitalism good. in god we trust. ms. waters. mr. speaker, mr. williams is my friend, but i do wonder whether mr. williams views the $1.43 million he received in debt forgiveness as being consistent with his views on socialism. i do not get it. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from texas (mr. doggett). mr. doggett. mr. speaker, i was prepared to vote for this resolution. socialism is clearly not the best path for america. who wants to be associated with stalin and the others whom this resolution denounces? they were really thugs who were masquerading as socialists. but when the promoters of this worthless resolution rejected the takano amendment to protect social security and medicare, their goal became clear. they have a long history of rigorously attacking most every new social initiative--originally claiming that social security would ``enslave workers'' and ``sovietize the country''--and they have long denounced medicare as ``socialism.'' =========================== note =========================== on february 2, 2023, on page h637, in the second column, the following appeared: initiative--originally claiming that social security would enslave workers and sovietize the country--and they have long denounced medicare as socialism. the online version has been corrected to read: initiative-- originally claiming that social security would ``enslave workers'' and ``sovietize the country''--and they have long denounced medicare as ``socialism.'' ========================= end note ========================= some republicans would even privatize the veterans administration with its socialist structure of government-run hospitals and employees. it is a system our veterans love. this resolution is the foundation for continued attacks on better medicare for more americans and their attempt to cut social security benefits. like their cult leader, donald trump, they use this resolution to attack our allies in germany and sweden at the very time republicans are considering cutting aid to ukraine. =========================== note =========================== on february 2, 2023, on page h637, in the second column, the following appeared: at the very time they are considering cutting aid to ukraine. the online version has been corrected to read: at the very time republicans are considering cutting aid to ukraine. ========================= end note ========================= mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. meuser). mr. meuser. mr. speaker, i thank our chairman very much for his leadership on what is a very important subject. i rise today, mr. speaker, to support the simple yet necessary resolution to denounce the inevitable corruption of socialism and the suffering, death, and destruction it has brought upon hundreds of millions of people throughout the world since its inception. our founding fathers built our nation on the principles of freedom and liberty, which leads to a free market economy, all tenets that stand directly counter to the ideas and ideals of socialism. capitalism has produced prosperity for generations of americans and has shaped the american dream that so many have sought by immigrating to america for centuries. mr. speaker, how many are fleeing capitalist countries like the united states for socialist countries, i ask? overtaxed economies backfire. they have no growth, prosperity, quality of life, or advancements in medicine, food, housing, or education. overregulation stifles business throughout national and global markets and, on the state side, gives states like florida and texas--and good for them--a great advantage over overregulated and overtaxed states. historically, obvious metrics and clear results prove that capitalism is far better for all societies, especially the united states of america. as president reagan said, socialism only works in two places: heaven where they do not need it, and hell where they already have it. socialist governments culminate with absolute power, and absolute power corrupts absolutely. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new york (mr. meeks). mr. meeks. mr. speaker, i do not take this issue lightly. i do, however, take issue with how this resolution has been presented. of course, we oppose the violence inflicted upon people under the rule of communist and dictatorial governments, but this resolution is less about their plight and more of a political stunt. make no mistake about it, i am proud a capitalist, and i always will be. ideas like affordable healthcare, affordable housing, and paid family leave are not radical socialist policies. some of our closest allies in europe and around the world participate in the free market and help their citizens meet their most basic needs. that is what we have been sent here to do: to consider, debate, and ultimately pass legislation that will help the american people. mr. speaker, i ask my republican colleagues: what is your agenda? is it the 30 percent sales tax? is it the cuts to medicare and medicaid? is it the cuts to social security or eliminating access to reproductive care? what is your plan? do we give people access so they can participate in a capitalist society? or do we just cut them so we can limit the opportunity to participate in a capitalist society? mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. mcclintock). mr. mcclintock. mr. speaker, it is often said that socialism is sharing and capitalism is selfishness. it is precisely the opposite. the only way to prosper in a capitalist society is to identify what somebody else needs and to provide it for them better than they can provide it for themselves, whether it is sweeping a floor or designing a microchip. socialism is taking what one person has earned by helping others and giving it to someone who has not. socialism always produces poverty and misery because when you take a dollar from peter and give it to paul, both have been robbed of that dollar's incentive to help each other. peter has been denied the reward of his dollar's worth of work, and paul no longer needs to help someone earn that dollar. socialism and slavery both spring from exactly the same rotten principle, as lincoln put it, that you work and toil and make bread, and i will eat it. both have been championed by the same party through the ages. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. williams). ms. williams of georgia. mr. speaker, as a legislator, i know to look at a bill's definitions. as house republicans talk about rejecting socialism in all its forms, it is important to understand just exactly what my republican colleagues are talking about. surely, it is not social security and medicare, public schools, public libraries, public safety, and roads and bridges? the bill does not say. there is not a single definition of ``socialism'' or all its forms. [[page h638]] my colleague, congressman takano, gave my republican colleagues an opportunity to clarify. he offered an amendment stating that programs like social security and medicare are not socialism. republicans refused that amendment. that makes me wonder if what republicans are really doing here is trying to reject things like bedrock social programs that so many of our seniors and constituents rely on. i support our nation's market-based economy, and if my republican colleagues truly did the same, they would be using this time for legislation that creates jobs and lowers costs for all american families. this bill does neither. mr. speaker, i urge my republican colleagues to focus their time on the issues that will help all of our constituents achieve the promise of america. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from west virginia (mr. mooney), who is a great leader and a member of the financial services committee. mr. mooney. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of representative salazar's house resolution denouncing the horrors of socialism. i grew up in a home where the american ideals of personal freedom and limited government were cherished. my mother, lala suarez, grew up on a sugarcane farm in cuba, where she was one of 14 brothers and sisters. when castro took control of cuba by force, her entire world was destroyed. my mother was imprisoned by fidel castro for 7 weeks. thankfully, they never found the gun she had hidden or they would have executed her and her friends. she fled communism to enjoy freedom and opportunity in america. today, over 60 years later, socialist policies have kept cuba in economic ruin. she met my father, vincent mooney, and became a proud american citizen. my father was a captain in the united states army who served in vietnam to stop the advance of communism. growing up, my parents impressed upon me and my three siblings that america is special. unlike economically failing socialist countries, americans' personal liberty is enshrined in our constitution and must always be protected. all citizens deserve basic freedoms, such as freedom of press; freedom of speech; the right to vote; the right to be considered innocent until proven guilty, where in communist countries you are guilty until you prove yourself innocent; and the right to worship. as president donald trump said right here in this chamber in his state of the union speech: ``america will never be a socialist country.'' america must never give up on our god-given rights. we must fight against socialism and for the american dream. mr. speaker, when the government takes away your rights and freedoms, as the socialist and communist countries want to do, they never give them back. every american should feel blessed to have been born in this country where we are free. let us protect our freedoms. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. takano). mr. takano. mr. speaker, this resolution is not about socialism. it is about political cynicism. no one in this chamber would defend the atrocities committed by murderous communist ideologues such as mao zedong or fidel castro, but that is not what this resolution is about. this resolution is about conflating some of our most cherished social safety net programs with so-called socialism. with this resolution, republicans demonize social security, on which more than 46 million retirees rely today. republicans demonize medicare, which has saved the lives of countless americans. republicans demonize many other federal programs, including benefits offered to our nation's veterans. harry truman was right when he said that: ``socialism is a scare word that [republicans] have hurled at every advance the people have made in the last 20 years.'' mr. speaker, i strongly urge my colleagues to oppose this resolution. {time} 1015 mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from tennessee (mr. rose), a great leader for agriculture issues and a member of the financial services committee. mr. rose. mr. speaker, today i rise in support of h. con. res. 9, which denounces the horrors of socialism in all its forms. whether it is communism, marxism, leninism, stalinism, maoism, anarchism, democratic socialism, ecosocialism, or liberal socialism, all of these have failed, and none of these ideologies should, god willing, ever be implemented in the united states. by passing this resolution, we can send a message to the american people that we reject these deadly ideologies, and our nation will always and forever be a bastion of freedom and a beacon of hope. i pray for the more than 100 million lives that have been lost at the hands of communist regimes, totalitarian rule, and brutal dictatorships. socialism should never play any part in the american way of life. i hope we can all agree on this commonsense resolution. i urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on its passage. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. pocan). mr. pocan. mr. speaker, for 35 years now i have owned a small business, giving me significantly more experience as a capitalist than the vast majority of members on the other side of the aisle. as a capitalist, let me tell you, this resolution is plain ridiculous. it jointly condemns pol pot and norway. i am with you on the first one. but norway? please. here is what this is really about. more and more members on the other side of the aisle are calling for cuts to social security and medicare, and many have referred to these programs as socialism throughout their existence. the other night in the rules committee, they showed their cards. republicans refused an amendment to declare that social security and medicare is not socialism. this resolution has little to do with intelligent discourse and everything to do with laying the groundwork to cut social security and medicare. i support social security and medicare, capitalism, and norway. i will be voting ``no.'' mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from ohio (mr. davidson), chair of the housing and insurance subcommittee. mr. davidson. mr. speaker, i enlisted in the united states army after high school and arrived in west germany in the spring of 1989. the cold war was at fever pitch, and at the brandenburg gate, president reagan famously said, ``mr. gorbachev, tear down this wall.'' on 9 november 1989, the east german people finally tore down their own wall; not gorbachev, not america, not the west, but the people trapped on the other side of that wall. i was there that thanksgiving in the heart of berlin when i met with people experiencing their first hours of freedom. one man asked me, ``is it like this everywhere?'' i thought he meant like berlin, a big city. i am from western ohio and a small town. he corrected me. he said, no, the stores are open at night, and there is fresh milk and everyone can go in? he had been told a lie that we were poorer in the west than they were, that only the elites could buy things, like the communist party officials. he was not alone. the wall had separated their communists from our freedom and free markets. the flood of people was to the land of opportunity, not to the failed ideas of marx and lenin. the united states of america is worth saving. to do that, we must defend freedom and defeat socialism. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from florida (mr. frost). mr. frost. mr. speaker, i rise today in opposition to this resolution because the american people know that the biggest threat to our modern democratic society and free market economy is not some socialist bogeyman, it is republican leaders in this chamber, people who want to call every federally funded program that americans depend on socialism just to scare people and position themselves to cut and gut the benefits that people count on. [[page h639]] go back and look at the decades' worth of transcripts and see what republicans call socialism to scare people--social security, medicare, medicaid, the affordable care act. they even call free public school education socialism to scare people. this vote is a sham. we have heard about cuba a ton. my mother came here from cuba in the late 1960s with my grandmother and my aunt. i will not let their story be used to gut the benefits that our people have earned and deserve. this vote has nothing to do with socialism and everything to do with gutting the programs that millions of americans have paid into and have earned. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from nebraska (mr. flood). mr. flood. mr. speaker, i rise today in strong support of this resolution condemning socialism. i have seen the victims of socialism firsthand. many of those victims have found refuge in nebraska. vietnamese is the third most spoken language in nebraska due to immigration in the 1970s, and members of the falun gong have found freedom from religious persecution by the chinese communist party in our great state. history shows us that when socialism is tried, it leads to three things: poverty, devastation, and ultimately communism. as vladimir lenin once said, ``the goal of socialism is communism.'' socialist regimes continue to commit atrocities around the world. in north korea, there are an estimated 180,000 prisoners today. many of them are subjected to torture and extreme manual labor. in venezuela, police and security forces killed more than 19,000 people between 2016 and 2019 for ``resisting authority.'' in cuba, journalists, bloggers, and artists are routinely jailed for speaking against the regime. the list goes on and on. socialism is the enemy, not just to free enterprise, but to human rights. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this resolution. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, the last gentleman mentioned china, and i just remind everyone of a quote by their president trump, ``and i like president xi a lot,'' he said. ``i consider him a friend, and--but i like him a lot. i have gotten to know him very well. he is a strong gentleman, right? . . . he is a strong guy, tough guy.'' when are you going to denounce trump? mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from florida (ms. wasserman schultz). ms. wasserman schultz. mr. speaker, i rise to condemn all socialist autocrats who place power and wealth over their own citizens. yet this resolution ignores some of their worst evils, then falls silent while american leaders mimic their cruel tactics. for instance, cubans and venezuelans suffer from far worse than the inflation and expropriation this measure describes. dictators there destroy human rights; the rule of law, and jail, exile, or kill their enemies. let us condemn socialist abuses, yes, but leaders on this very floor seek to overturn democratic elections, confiscate long-held rights, and gut programs our families, veterans, and servicemembers need. in my home state, an aspiring autocrat daily deploys the socialist tyrant's playbook. he marginalizes minorities, demonizes the free press, and criminalizes or bans speech, books, even history. what we can learn from these failed despots is to respect the rule of law, free speech, and free elections, and to protect our own citizens from the grinding poverty tyrants wield as weapons. socialist dictators deserve our scorn, but glossing over their crimes and ignoring the leaders right here who mimic them--that fails those fighting freedom everywhere. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, may i inquire the time remaining on both sides? the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman from north carolina has 15\1/ 2\ minutes remaining. the gentlewoman from california has 13\1/4\ minutes remaining. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from california (mrs. kim). mrs. kim of california. mr. speaker, i rise in strong support of h. con. res. 9 to denounce the atrocities perpetuated by socialism around the world. if you want to see the difference between socialism and freedom, take a look at north korea at night versus south korea. as an immigrant who grew up in south korea during the aftermath of the korean war, i know firsthand the horror, the destruction that socialism has brought to millions of families in the korean peninsula under the evil regime of the kim dynasty, from kim il-sung to kim jong-il to now kim jong-un. socialism divided my family and friends between north and south. my mother-in-law, for example, crossed over the dmz and back multiple times to rescue loved ones from the tyrannical north korean regime. tens of thousands of war-torn families remain separated to this day. meanwhile, famines and the daily threats of a nuclear war in east asia persist. although i was just a young girl, i remember the hope embodied by those brave soldiers who defended the freedoms of a country they never knew and a people they never met. it is because of them that i stand before you today as one of the first korean-american women to serve in congress. the united states must continue to stand as a beacon of freedom, hope, and opportunity for the world. i urge my colleagues from both sides of the aisle to join us to say ``no'' to socialism. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, the gentlewoman from california just mentioned north korean leader kim jong-un. let me tell you what trump said. he said, ``kim wrote me beautiful letters, and they are great letters. we fell in love.'' mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from new mexico (ms. leger fernandez). ms. leger fernandez. mr. speaker, i absolutely denounce the brutal and communist regimes of castro, maduro, stalin, and other dictators in the whereas clauses of this resolution. but, sadly, instead of spending our precious moments in the people's house expanding opportunity for hardworking americans, supporting ranchers, farmers, and rural communities, lowering healthcare costs, and strengthening social security and medicare, we are spending hours, actually days in pure political theater. in the rules committee, when i offered mr. takano's amendment to clarify that this resolution does not also condemn social security, medicare, and veterans' health benefits, republicans blocked it. yet, i still know that our love and respect for our veterans, seniors, and retirees will always guide our work to ensure they receive all the benefits they have earned. i will not stray from our obligation to create prosperity, hope, and a future everywhere in america. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from new york (mr. lawler), a great new member of the financial services committee from the hudson valley. mr. lawler. mr. speaker, as margaret thatcher said, the problem with socialism is that eventually you run out of other people's money. my wife is an immigrant from eastern europe, from moldova, a former soviet satellite state. she came to this country in search of economic opportunity and freedom and a better life for her and her family. she left a former communist country that is still dealing with the grips of communism and socialist policies. let us be very clear. communism and socialism have limited freedoms, stymied economic innovation and opportunity, limited prosperity, and left the very people it claims to help in a permanent state of poverty and government dependence. conversely, capitalism has lifted people from poverty to prosperity within a generation and made america the envy of the world. to be clear, this resolution is not about social security or medicare, two programs with broad bipartisan support. it is about a sick ideology that has destroyed nations, ruined lives, and resulted in death and destruction around the world. now, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are twisting themselves [[page h640]] into knots trying to explain why they oppose this resolution. the sad truth is, it is because their party has been taken over by a radical, socialist ideology that they are held hostage to. they cannot even muster the courage to denounce it. we are americans. we should speak with one voice and denounce socialism, communism, dictators, and despots at every turn. the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield the gentleman from new york an additional 1 minute. mr. lawler. mr. speaker, i am proud to support this resolution, denounce socialism, and proudly embrace capitalism, american innovation and ingenuity, and the role it has played in promoting freedom and democracy throughout the rest of the world. i ask all of my colleagues to join me. it is very simple. this is not about social security or medicare. this is about denouncing socialism. if you cannot muster the strength to do that, that speaks volumes about your party. the speaker pro tempore. members are reminded to direct their remarks to the chair. {time} 1030 ms. waters. mr. speaker, i would reiterate to my colleagues: i love social security. i love medicare. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from maryland (mr. hoyer), the former majority leader. mr. hoyer. mr. speaker, i rise to lament the failure today to consider a resolution which would reflect the overwhelming consensus in this house: that capitalism, not socialism, has proven to be the very best economic system. it is the most effective system to create dynamic economies and incentivize individual innovation, entrepreneurship, and risk-taking to achieve economic security and success. such a resolution would have brought us together. it would give confidence to our fellow citizens that we are united in our support of our democratic capitalist system. the resolution before us today, however, does not do that. instead, it is an intellectually bankrupt screed of political demagoguery. all it aims to do is to divide and distract this institution and this country. it is a political gotcha and a distraction from the real issues that face the american people. as our departed colleague elijah cummings said, ``we are better than this.'' we just came from an annual prayer breakfast where we gave voice to reconciliation and unity. we prayed to one god, and we recited our pledge to one nation, under god, indivisible. this resolution seeks to divide. americans expect more of us. this resolution does not, sadly, mr. speaker, further that goal. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from tennessee (mr. burchett), my friend. mr. burchett. mr. speaker, i thank the chairman for yielding me the time. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of condemning the horrors of socialism. the biggest crimes in humanity have happened under socialist regimes. it has taken more than 100 million lives. margaret thatcher said it best, and i will paraphrase it: eventually you run out of people to take money from. that is the only way socialism works. president trump said we would never be a socialist country in his state of the union address, and i was shocked that over half of this body, mr. speaker, refused to stand and applaud that. i think it tells where we are as a country. too many people have fought and died for this country. if you have ever come to my knoxville office, there is a 48-star flag that is on the wall. it is a flag that was draped over my uncle's casket. he was too old to go fight, mr. speaker. he went and enlisted anyway. they sent him back home to cheatham county. he went back and enlisted again, and they let him go. he died shortly after the d-day invasion as a sergeant. too old to go to fight, but he went anyway. he fought for the american dream. he fought for what we have in this country, and every dadgum day we want to throw it away. the fact that we are even having this conversation sickens me, mr. speaker. i say that with all sincerity. ms. waters. mr. speaker, the ex-president who still thinks he is president said, ``i went in yesterday and there was a television screen, and i said, `this is genius.' putin declares a big portion of ukraine--of ukraine--putin declares it as independent. oh, that is wonderful. . . . he used the word `independent' and we are gonna go out and we are gonna go in and we are gonna help keep peace.' you gotta say that is pretty savvy.'' mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new york (mr. nadler), who is the ranking member of the committee on the judiciary. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i thank the gentlewoman for yielding. mr. speaker, this resolution lists many communist dictators, but it does not list any of the capitalist dictators--from hitler to mussolini to franco to salazar to peron, and so many more, because the issue is not socialism, the issue is tyranny. the second issue is the progress of the american people. because every single issue of progress from medicare to medicaid to the affordable care act to public housing to social security has been called by republican leaders at the time ``socialist.'' this is not an attack on tyranny. this is an attack on all of these programs. this is an attack on medicare, on social security, on public housing, on federal aid to education, on everything the republicans have quoted ``socialist'' when they were first enacted, and they still want to get rid of. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i have heard the most absurd argument just now on the house floor. the contents of this resolution are very simple and very straightforward: a system that is borne out of freedom inevitably begets freedom and a liberation of people from tyranny. an economic system that is borne out of taking inevitably leads to the loss of human life and centralization and control by despotic people. that is what this resolution speaks to. it does not speak to any programs here in the united states. it does not talk about our system of government. it does not speak of other systems, economic systems. it is simply in the resolved that congress denounces socialism in all its forms and opposes the implementation of socialist policies in the united states. period. so rather than contorting themselves to vote ``no'' against a resolution condemning tyrants who use socialism to centralize their power, my colleagues are contorting themselves to speak against previous presidents or a question of republicans' views on domestic social programs. that is not a part of this resolution. it is a part of other debates everywhere else in congress. let us read the resolution. let us stick to the terms of debate of the resolution, and let us figure out a way that we can actually come together and denounce socialism in all its forms here in the united states. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. waters. madam speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. khanna). mr. khanna. mr. speaker, let me be clear. the democratic party does not believe that the government should control the means of production. no democrat believes that there should be government gas stations or government technology companies or government car companies. so what does the democratic party believe? we believe every person in america should have childcare. what do the republicans say? their answer: well, look at how many people stalin killed. we say: let us give everyone healthcare. the republicans say: well, we cannot do that. look at how many people pol pot killed. we say: let us make sure everyone has equal opportunity. the republicans say: we cannot do that. look at how many people kim jong-un is starving. give me a break. the american people are catching on. they know that we have lost 25 percent of wealth in the working class and middle class since 1980. they know that the real crimes are not crimes happening abroad but the crime of paying starvation wages for hard work. [[page h641]] this party is actually solving the problems of the american people. that party is giving rhetoric about foreign regimes. people will see through the rhetoric and side with the democratic party. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i have one further speaker, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. waters. mr. speaker, may i inquire how much time i have remaining? the speaker pro tempore. the gentlewoman has 7\1/4\ minutes remaining. ms. waters. mr. speaker, let me share a quote from the opposite side of the aisle. ``socialism is a scare word they have hurled at every advance the people have made in the last 20 years.'' they go on to say: ``socialism is what they called public power. socialism is what they called social security. socialism is what they called farm price supports. socialism is what they called bank deposit insurance. socialism is what they called the growth of free and independent labor organizations. socialism is their name for almost anything that helps all the people.'' this was a quote from the great president truman, talking about republicans' claims 70 years ago. it has revisited itself. mr. speaker, i yield 2\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from california (mr. sherman), who is also the ranking member of the subcommittee on capital markets. mr. sherman. mr. speaker, imagine an antisocialist resolution so poorly drafted that the cochair of the cpa caucus finds it necessary to come here and denounce it. but this resolution equates willy brandt with kim jong-un, medicare with the great leap forward, and european socialist allies of america and nato, with the worst murderers in history. democracy calls for every country to decide what blend of government regulation of business, what blend of government programs to have, and that is a decision for each country to make. instead, we have a resolution that provides a misleading and sophomoric description of history. we are told that all socialism is equal, and that marxist-leninism is the same as the european socialists. when communism stood over europe and could have conquered the western world, we organized nato. here are the nato leaders who were all socialists: harold wilson, willy brandt, francois mitterand, and so many others, as shown on the chart. without them, stalinism may well have prevailed. yet, this resolution condemns them. then we are told, oh, well, then the anti-communists must be great people. yes, like francisco franco and the rest of those identified on this chart. later today, the republican leadership wants to take someone off her committee because they say they are dedicated to fighting anti- semitism. yet, on this same day, they bring a resolution to this floor that equates some of the greatest leaders of israel with some of the greatest mass murderers of history. look at the history of israel. the founder of israel, ben-gurion, a socialist; golda meir, a member of the socialist international; and shimon peres, president of israel and president of the socialist international. yet, they say they are against anti-semitism. mr. speaker, 73 percent of the american people believe republican leadership is ignoring the problems facing america, per a cnn poll. and we could dismiss this resolution as just a stupid waste of time consistent with that ignoring. {time} 1045 the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. sherman. can i get another 30 seconds? the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentleman has expired. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i yield an additional 15 seconds to the gentleman from california. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield an additional 15 seconds, as well. the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman is recognized for an additional 30 seconds. mr. sherman. mr. speaker, they are intent on using the debt limit to attack social security, which was attacked by republicans as socialist at the time, the 1930s, and by paul ryan, more recently. they are here to attack medicare as socialist as was done by ronald reagan on a whole lp album denouncing medicare as socialism. they are here with this resolution to say that any social program can be equated with the greatest mass murderers in history. this resolution is not just a waste of time. it is a pernicious attack on the programs that american people support. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i want to take a moment to thank my colleague for his fulsome defense of socialism and historical socialists. i think that was the most intellectually honest piece of debate we have had here on the house floor. if this resolution were just simply to draw out my democrat colleagues to just say, yes, they are in favor of socialism, maybe this is a worthwhile endeavor. again, this is not my resolution. it was reported to my committee. we are reporting out this resolution as ms. salazar of florida presented and wrote because this is the early stages of the house. this came straight to the house floor rather than through the committee markup. it came through the rules committee. what i would have preferred in this resolution was a fulsome defense of capitalism and the juxtaposition between that optimistic sense of freedom that is borne out of our property rights, our speech rights, and our individual liberties in this country that has deeply connected us with an economic system of freedom, the juxtaposition of that to the misery of socialism and what the taking of people`s individual liberty and centralizing it in government and government control does to economic progress, to the best of humanity, to social outcomes, to the health and welfare of the people, to the economic prosperity of the people, and the misery that it begets to those people suffering in those regimes. what we have here is the history of international moments of terror begat by putin. it is not in there. he does not currently call himself a socialist, but lenin did, stalin did, mao zedong did, fidel castro did, and the list goes on. then, it talks about the loss of human life under those regimes from those socialist leaders. the resolve clause, i have read before: ``that congress denounces socialism in all its forms, and opposes the implementation of socialist policies in the united states of america.'' i would be happy to work with my colleague on the type of resolution that i outlined, happy to have that come back to the floor, in time, on something that my democrat colleagues would actually support, a proper denunciation of the miseries of socialism and a proper embrace of our economic capitalism here in the united states, but that is not what we have before us today. i encourage my colleagues to look at what is in the resolution and judge it based off the contents of what is here, not what is omitted. mr. speaker, i yield to my colleague to close, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i raise a question, and i direct it to the speaker. was ppp socialism? no, of course not, but some republicans would claim it was. interestingly, many republicans, including several sponsors of this ridiculous resolution, not only applied for a ppp loan but also asked that the government forgive the debt. so i ask unanimous consent to enter this list of republicans in the record. the speaker pro tempore. without objection. mr. mchenry. i object. ms. waters. i yield 1 minute---- the speaker pro tempore. there is an objection. ms. waters. i include in the record the list of republicans. 1. ralph norman (r-sc): $306,520--member of rules. 2. roger williams (r-tx): $1.43 million--member of fsc. 3. matt gaetz (r-fl): $476,000. [[page h642]] 4. marjorie taylor green (r-ga): $180,000. 5. greg pence (r-in): $79,441. 6. vern buchanan (r-fl): $2.8 million. 7. kevin hern (r-ok): $1.07 million. 8. brett guthrie (r-ky): $4.3 million. 9. ralph abraham (r-la): $38,000. 10. mike kelly (r-pa): $974,100. 11. vicki hartzler (r-mo): $451,200. 12. markwayne mullin (r-ok): $988,700. 13. carol miller (r-wv): $3.1 million. ms. waters. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. speaker, americans are tired of this body wasting its time when there are real problems to address. i want to get started considering legislation to house the more than a half million people who will sleep outside tonight because they do not have a house of their own. i want to get started on legislation to address the extreme wealth disparities in our country, including where ceos now make almost 400 times what the average workers make. i want to stop wells fargo-like banks from ripping off millions of consumers. i want to get started finding ways for seniors and folks saving for their retirement to have more confidence that those who would defraud them will be thwarted. instead, we spend time talking about how republicans want to force biden to slash social security and medicare, or they will turn the economy down by forcing a default on our debt. the american people should rest assured that my democratic colleagues and i are united in our resolve to expand access to affordable housing and good-paying jobs, protect consumers from abuse, strengthen our economy, safeguard our national security, protect social security and medicare, and, above all, defend our democracy. let me say it again: protect social security and medicare. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, how much time is remaining? the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman from north carolina has 1\3/4\ minutes remaining. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from texas (mr. arrington), the budget committee chairman, to close on behalf of the republicans. mr. arrington. mr. speaker, i thank my friend from north carolina for yielding. socialism, like the devil, does not appear with horns and a pitchfork. he masquerades as an angel of light with promises of human flourishing, all failed, all broken. socialism is not empty words. it is not a speech. it is a series of actions that rob people of their freedom and concentrate power in the hands of a few in their central government. i heard my colleague say: socialism is controlling the means of production. we are not doing that. except there is a whole-of-government assault for all the world to see on an industry, american energy, and it is being replaced with this green new deal--hundreds of billions of dollars in subsidies, tax credits, grants. if that is not control of the means of production, i do not know what is. universal healthcare: we do not want healthcare in the hands of doctors and patients. we want it in the hands of bureaucrats. we want government to control healthcare. masquerading as an angel of light is this concentration of power. socialism is the road to serfdom, and history is littered with the failed experiment in central planning. those countries that have taken that ruinous road have ruined, destroyed, their country and left their people in despair. our founding fathers believed fundamentally this: if we limit the federal government's role in our lives, we will unleash the greatest potential of free people created in the image of god. they were right. there has never been a greater force for all of humanity than freedom. nothing uplifts the human condition, unlocks the human potential, unleashes the human spirit like freedom. freedom has given every generation of americans the greatest opportunities, the highest standard of living, the best quality of life anywhere on the planet and in the history of the world. in the prescient words of ronald reagan, ``freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. . . . it must be fought for, protected, and handed on for them to do the same.'' god have mercy on our country. if you boil it down, mr. speaker, i believe our singular mission in this chamber, in our nation's capitol, is to fight for our country by preserving and protecting freedom for the next generation of americans. if, like my colleagues say, this is just theater, that decrying socialism and extolling the virtues and value of freedom is theater, god give us more shakespeares. god bless america. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. lofgren. mr. speaker, i rise to address a resolution the house is considering that, and i quote, ``denounces the horrors of socialism.'' in reading the various ``whereas'' clauses it is pretty clear that the authors have conflated ``socialism'' with ``totalitarianism.'' further, they apparently believe that ``socialism,'' which they have not defined, is the political philosophy of notorious communist dictators. for example, lenin, stalin, mao, fidel castro all described themselves as communists, not socialists. why does this resolution ignore that? why does it fail to condemn communism? it is obvious that the purpose of this vote is political in nature. for the duration of my career (in congress and before that), i have been a proud member of the democratic party. not the socialist party. not the communist party. not the republican party. not affiliated with any dangerous group or conspiracy theory, including but not limited to white supremacists or q-anon. i oppose and i have, on many occasions, spoken out strongly when there are anti-democratic atrocities around the world. i oppose totalitarianism. curiously, the resolution does not condemn fascism nor condemn hitler. yet by focusing solely on socialism and conflating socialism with communism and totalitarianism, h. con. res. 9 paints a distorted picture of the world. a rising tide of violent, anti-democratic forces, many from the far-right, also challenge us. vladimir putin (who is suspiciously not mentioned in h. con. res. 9) and his war of aggression in ukraine, democratic backsliding hungary and other far-right governments that commit human rights abuses and threaten democracy are weirdly given a pass by the authors. sadly, the united states is not exempt from the growing threat of far-right extremism. from drastically increased rates of hate crimes to the violent attempt to overthrow the government on january 6, 2021, our society and democracy are threatened by growing extremism and violence of the far-right. some republicans have called public education socialism, social security and medicare socialism. i do not agree that these basic programs, loved by americans, are socialism. this resolution does not address the challenges we face today. american families want solutions and policies that will help the middle-class, grow our economy, and protect our democracy--not empty political gestures. take, for example, the ongoing crisis in venezuela. mr. speaker, it seems the current majority would rather score cheap political points than pass actual policies to address challenges involving venezuela. i would know. in 2019, while i condemned the venezuelan regime on the floor, i was simultaneously advocating to designate tps for venezuela so those venezuelans in america would not be forcibly sent back to that oppressive communist regime. i bring up this example because it highlights how democrats in recent congressional sessions focused on how we could help people--not accuse people. we need to provide results instead of rhetoric. i strongly urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to focus less on ``gotcha'' resolutions and more on measures that actually accomplish something. this resolution, if passed, does absolutely nothing. ms. mccollum. mr. speaker, i rise in opposition to h. con. res. 9, denouncing the horrors of socialism. mr. speaker, let us be clear about what this resolution is. a complete waste of time. this resolution is not about stalin. it is not about mao. it is not about castro. it is not even about condemning the human rights abuses that many communist dictators throughout history have committed. instead, the republican majority has thrown together a poorly written, ill-conceived resolution so sloppy that it condemns socialism in all its forms. that includes important allies and friends of the united states that have mainstream socialist political parties like albania, australia, denmark, finland, france, iceland, luxembourg, montenegro, new zealand, north macedonia, norway, portugal, romania, slovakia, spain, and sweden. with this resolution, house republicans are sending a message to these nations that we condemn the domestic political process within their nations. that is outrageous. at a time of crisis for the world when vladimir putin is waging the largest war in europe [[page h643]] in over seventy years, congress should be working to strengthen the relationships with our fellow democracies, not passing poorly written messaging bills that will alienate our friends and allies. as ranking member of the house appropriations subcommittee on defense, i know just how crucial it is to maintain relationships with our nato allies. this weekend i will join the minnesota national guard in celebrating the 50th anniversary of the norwegian reciprocal troop exchange--the longest-running military partnership between 2 nations. make no mistake, this resolution is not just an insult to the norwegian government, but an insult to the norwegian home guard and norwegian armed forces who sacrifice to defend their nation from the russian threat. the republican majority was even offered the opportunity to soften this resolution before bringing it to the floor. house democrats offered amendments in the rules committee that would clarify the resolution's intent, including language stating that nothing in the resolution should be seen to condemn long-time federal programs like medicare, social security or va healthcare that impact all our constituencies. another amendment included language condemning fascism and the mass murder of 6 million jewish people by the nazi regime. unfortunately, all these amendments were rejected by republicans. mr. speaker, it is telling that a month into the 118th congress, house republicans have nothing to offer the american public but to waste their time with political stunts like this. ms. eshoo. mr. speaker, today's resolution, falsely conflating socialism with communism, is the latest in a long history of republican scare tactics about democrats and socialism. in 1935, republican representative robert rich said here in this chamber, ``roosevelt is a socialist, not a democrat.'' in 1946, during the truman administration, republican senator robert taft called a national health insurance bill ``the most socialistic measure that this congress has ever had before it.'' in the 1960 election, republican senator barry goldwater called the platform of john f. kennedy ``a blueprint for socialism.'' in 1964, when lyndon johnson passed medicare, george h.w. bush called it ``socialized medicine.'' in 1976, barry goldwater claimed that jimmy carter would bring about a ``suicidal slide toward socialism.'' in 1993, newt gingrich called the clinton health care plan ``socialism now or later.'' barrack obama was routinely called a socialist, including by three of the republican candidates in the 2012 election. and several members of this house have called joe biden's bipartisan infrastructure law ``socialist.'' having reviewed this history, it is clear that this resolution denouncing the horrors of ``socialism'' is an attempt by republicans to trap democrats on a vote by tying them to socialism. i neither admire nor ascribe to socialism, and the merits of this resolution are none, in my view. it makes no mention of the real threats to democracy like vladimir putin's invasion of ukraine, the right-wing attack on the capitol two years ago, and the challenge to our democracy of the movements of white nationalism, election denialism, the alt-right, and fascism. let us end these cynical debates about socialism and get back to the work our constituents sent us to washington to do. ms. jackson lee. mr. speaker, i rise today in opposition to h. con. res. 9--denouncing the horrors of socialism''. =========================== note =========================== february 2, 2023, on page h643, in the second column, the following appeared: let us end these cynical debates about socialism and get back to the work our constituents sent us to washington to do. mrs. jackson. mr. speaker, i rise today in opposition to h. con. res.--denouncing the horrors of socialism''. the online version has been corrected to read: let us end these cynical debates about socialism and get back to the work our constituents sent us to washington to do. ms. jackson lee. mr. speaker, i rise today in opposition to h. con. res.--denouncing the horrors of socialism''. ========================= end note ========================= it is not a logical response to policies that help americans i.e. social security. republicans do not want to take action to raise wages for workers or reduce costs of living for americans. instead, they are spending valuable floor time on meaningless resolutions that will do nothing for the american people with the goal of dividing democrats with ``gotcha'' votes. let us be clear: no matter how democrats vote on this resolution, republicans will not stop condemning democrats for being ``socialists.'' this resolution will not change that. the republicans' resolution ends with a resolve clause that denounces ``socialism in all its forms.'' this is a direct insult to many countries the united states counts among its allies--including nato member states spain, germany and portugal--which are governed by parties or heads of state that identify as social democratic or socialist. many nordic countries, as well as canada and new zealand, have adopted socialist ideas and policies to various degrees. the resolution ``opposes the implementation of socialist policies in the united states of america,'' which republicans themselves have tied to the core policy goals of the democratic caucus. this is a bad-faith attempt to smear our agenda and crudely conflate western european-style social democracy with antidemocratic, totalitarian regimes of stalin and kim jong ii. democrats should not dignify this deeply unserious and blatantly disingenuous effort and politicalized stunt. throughout history, every effort by democrats to advance a fairer society for working people has been attacked as ``socialism,'' from the new deal to the advent of medicare. libraries, k-12 public education and the postal service could also fit within republicans' denunciation of ``socialism in all of its forms,'' and would be painted as ``fundamentally and necessarily opposed'' to the foundation of the united states according to this resolution. republicans still routinely brand wildly popular policies that democrats advance as ``socialism,'' ``collectivism,'' and ``anti- american,'' including the affordable care act, medicaid expansion, lowering prescription drug prices, expanded social security, tax fairness for the wealthy and large corporations, a $15 minimum wage, and climate action. the ``-ism'' that the house should be condemning is authoritarianism--but republicans are too busy worshiping at the altar of donald trump, who called for the ``termination'' of the constitution, to do that. this resolution is nothing but a shallow attempt by republicans to distract the american people from their own far-right, authoritarian leanings, complicity in the january 6 insurrection, and coziness with white supremacy and antisemitism. republicans are showing us who they are: by gutting social security and medicare and protecting billionaire power. the american people know that the ``threat'' of socialism is not real. real threats to america include an insurrection against our democracy and attempts to overturn the results of the 2020 election, abetted by house republicans, as well as economic hostage-taking with the risk of triggering a recession by letting america default on its financial obligations. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to house resolution 83, the previous question is ordered on the concurrent resolution and the preamble. the question is on the adoption of the concurrent resolution. the question was taken; and the speaker pro tempore announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. mchenry. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this question will be postponed. ____________________