[congressional record volume 169, number 20 (tuesday, january 31, 2023)] [house] [page h516] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] honoring master sgt. joseph kapacziewski the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from ohio (mr. davidson) for 5 minutes. mr. davidson. mr. speaker, today, i am here with a very heavy heart to honor master sergeant joseph kapacziewski, a member of the 3rd battalion, 75th ranger regiment. {time} 1030 army rangers are some of the most elite soldiers in the world, and master sergeant kapacziewski, nicknamed kap, was no exception. in april 2010, while serving in eastern afghanistan, his team of army rangers was locked in combat with a group of armed insurgents. when one of his comrades was hit, kap sprinted through the fire to provide aid. with the help of a fellow ranger, they dragged the wounded soldier to safety, actions which earned kap an army commendation medal with valor. kap's actions would be remarkable under any conditions, but considering his experiences from a few years earlier, they were inconceivable. a native of connecticut, kap enlisted in the united states army following his senior year of high school in september 2001, just days before the 9/11 attacks. in 2002, he was deployed to afghanistan, and the following year, he parachuted into iraq for the initial invasion. with only 2 days left in his fifth deployment to iraq in 2005, kap's convoy was ambushed by heavy fire. a grenade exploded inches away from kap after falling through the hatch of his vehicle. shrapnel ripped through his body, shattering his right leg and severing an artery in his right arm. severely wounded, kap collected himself, directed his vehicle to cover, and alerted the rest of the convoy to the attack. it was not until then that he allowed his wounds to be treated. kap was evacuated to walter reed hospital, and while his arm recovered, his leg did not. despite numerous surgeries, his leg was barely functional. ultimately, there was only one choice--to amputate it. with the pain gone, kap was fitted with a prosthetic, and he completed hundreds of hours of physical therapy. he had one sole objective during his difficult and lengthy recovery: he wanted to return to combat with his unit. everyone thought it would be impossible for kap to achieve that goal. no one under his circumstances had ever returned to combat, and they agreed kap had completed his service to our nation. kap did not care. he completed the 12-mile ruck march test, parachuted with a combat load, and not only regained his squad leader title but was promoted to platoon sergeant. kap became the first ranger in united states army history to return to combat action with a prosthetic limb. he was awarded the bronze star with valor and a purple heart, among numerous other decorations. kap was deployed to combat 11 times to fight the global war on terrorism, five of which were while he had a prosthetic leg. he wrote a book about it called ``back in the fight.'' there is more to any of our soldiers or warriors than what they do in uniform. i have had multiple friends reach out to me who talked about the impact that kap had on them as a leader and as a friend, whether it was riding motorcycles together or just hanging out after a tough day at work, in training, or any other way. he never lost sight of how he came to be where he was. unfortunately, kap's life ended far too soon last week at the age of 40 due to a significant enemy our veterans face right here at home: suicide. our nation has a moral obligation to not only prepare and equip the servicemembers we send into harm's way but to support and care for them when their duty is done. yet, we have drastically failed countless numbers of our veterans who have sacrificed everything, including their lives, to protect us. president lincoln's promise to care for the men and women who have ``borne the battle'' is one of the most important functions of our government, and we must do better. kap's wife, kimberly, and his sons, wyatt and cody, as well as the rest of his family and friends, are in my prayers through this difficult time. kap will always be remembered by many for his warrior spirit and his extraordinary story of resiliency that made him an inspiration and a military legend. mr. speaker, i am reminded of lyrics to a song one of my friends, darryl worley, sings called ``the 22.'' let me share a few of the lyrics: you cannot unsee what i saw you cannot get back what i lost i have lost a wife five brothers my kids and the man i was i thought that i left the front lines but the fight for my life rages on we have lost 21 soldiers in only a day and that is the unthinkable truth so i will lay down my gun and i will soldier on, and i will not be 22 i will lay down my gun i will soldier on, and i will not be 22. at the end of his journey, the apostle paul said: i fought the good fight; i have kept the faith; and i have finished the race. i pray that everyone would live a full and natural life, fight that battle, and never surrender to it. i thank you, kap. ____________________