[congressional record volume 169, number 121 (friday, july 14, 2023)] [house] [pages h3581-h3600] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2024 the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to house resolution 583 and rule xviii, the chair declares the house in the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the further consideration of the bill, h.r. 2670. will the gentleman from minnesota (mr. stauber) kindly take the chair. {time} 0915 in the committee of the whole accordingly, the house resolved itself into the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the further consideration of the bill (h.r. 2670) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2024 for military activities of the department of defense and for military construction, and for defense activities of the department of energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes, with mr. stauber (acting chair) in the chair. the clerk read the title of the bill. the acting chair. when the committee of the whole rose on thursday, july 13, 2023, amendment no. 62, printed in house report 118-142 offered by the gentleman from missouri (mr. burlison), had been disposed of. amendment no. 63 offered by mr. banks the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 63 printed in house report 118-142. mr. banks. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of subtitle g of title v, insert the following: sec. 5__. prohibition on use of quotas based on race or ethnicity in service academy admissions. none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this act or otherwise made available for the military service academies for fiscal year 2024 may be used to discriminate or to use quotas in admissions on the basis of race or ethnicity. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 583, the gentleman from indiana (mr. banks) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from indiana. mr. banks. mr. chairman, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. chair, this amendment would prohibit the use of funds to discriminate on the basis of race and ethnicity in admissions to the military service academies. currently, all of the military service academies use race and ethnicity as selection criteria for admissions. not only is this a violation of the constitution, as recently affirmed by the u.s. supreme court, but it is a violation of the military's longstanding meritocratic principles. the military service academies are elite universities that train and educate the future leaders of our armed services. we need the best and the brightest, the most fit cadets and midshipmen, regardless of their skin color and ethnicity. to consider immutable characteristics like race and ethnicity is blatantly discriminatory. for our national security, we must uphold the ideals of our country and put hard work, dedication, and service above all. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. strickland. mr. chairman, i rise in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from washington is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. strickland. mr. chair, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. chair, mr. banks' amendment to prohibit our nation's service academies from promoting diverse experiences and backgrounds as part of its missions policy will do nothing but weaken our military. the supreme court recently recognized in its decision to leave service academies out of its ruling on affirmative action that our academies are not laboratories for ideological gerrymandering. they are institutions that are foundational to our national security. our service academies are responsible for providing a higher education but also for training our nation's men and women to serve as global leaders. many graduates will serve in the highest levels of our military and government, where success depends on maintaining an open mind, building diverse coalitions, and drawing on broad experiences. they will lead as part of a military that has never been more diverse, more capable, or more lethal. soon, nearly half of our servicemembers will be people of color, but only a fraction serve as officers and even a smaller fraction as senior leaders. we learned bitter and painful lessons in world war ii, korea, and vietnam, when leaders neither understood nor looked like the formations they led. it is 2023, not 1952. if my colleagues across the aisle knew more about the painful history of this country, perhaps last night one of them would not have referred to black servicemembers as ``colored people.'' let us not move our country backward. i oppose this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. banks. mr. chair, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. grothman). mr. grothman. mr. chair, i thank the gentleman from indiana for introducing this amendment. i think it is a commonsense amendment. right now, there are all sorts of rumors out there that when people are admitted to the service academies--who, after all, are going to wind up running our military, the one part of our government that cannot fail--preferences are being given and they are not always taking the best people that they can. i want to point out something that is a little bit offensive about this whole diversity thing. diversity for people like the democratic party, sadly, is solely determined by your genetics or your dna or where your ancestors were 200 years ago. i will give you an example to show the foolishness of it and that the real goal here, i think, is to divide americans. if i am one-quarter peruvian, i can identify as hispanic. i can identify as hispanic despite the fact i have never spoken a word of spanish and never been south of the border in my life. the people who just want to divide america would say that i have a unique perspective growing up in a milwaukee suburb, despite the fact that i am one- quarter from a different part of the world. this is preposterous on its face, and it will inevitably lead to division as we are educating our military that they should look at people by where their ancestors came from, not as individuals. this true racism, which is what it absolutely is because that is how they determine which silo you fit into, has to be ripped away from our society and the military, in particular. the idea that we have different viewpoints because of where our ancestors came from despite the fact that we have not been there and know nothing of them is preposterous. like i said, in addition to the divisiveness, you are going to wind up with people who are not necessarily the best people to lead our military. anybody familiar with military history knows the important decisions that have to be made during wartime. we want those decisions made by the brightest people we have, not by people who have been picked based upon where their dna was 2,000 years ago. ms. strickland. mr. chair, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new jersey (mr. kim), the ranking member [[page h3582]] of the military personnel subcommittee. mr. kim of new jersey. mr. chair, i want to respond to what was just said. it is absolutely important that we set straight that diversity does not mean we are talking about people who are less qualified. we are not talking about reducing standards. we are talking about recognizing one part of the decision as one part of many. this is not a situation where it is the overriding factor. i agree with what chairman banks said, which is that we want the best and brightest, but what we recognize when it comes to our service academies, in particular, is that this is a situation where we are trying to also build a force. this is not just about an individual. yes, we want the best and brightest, but we also want the most cohesive and effective fighting force for our country. we recognize we are building an entity where our servicemembers are part of something bigger than all of them. the acting chair. the time of the gentleman has expired. ms. strickland. mr. chair, i yield an additional 30 seconds to the gentleman from new jersey. mr. kim of new jersey. i think about this brief that was put forward to the supreme court that was written by former military officials that said: ``the importance of maintaining a diverse, highly qualified officer corps has been beyond legitimate dispute for decades. history has shown that placing a diverse armed forces under the command of homogenous leadership is a recipe for internal resentment, discord, and violence.'' this is written by former military leaders who are advising us to make sure that we let the military be able to control and be able to have the tools they need to build a force that our country needs. mr. banks. mr. chairman, i yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from florida (mr. mast), a real american hero. mr. mast. mr. chair, i am amazed at the bigoted comments i am hearing from the other side right now, literally stating that units need to look a certain way. there have to be people of certain colors in these units. it is purely idiotic. it is dangerous. war is not a game. it is always dangerous. it is very often deadly. i damn near gave my life for this country, and i can tell you the last thing i cared about was the color of the snipers that had my back or the color of the medics that were putting tourniquets on each of my legs and my left arm when i was injured on the battlefield. it did not matter if they were black, white, brown. none of that mattered when they were recruited into the military, and it did not matter as they were serving. it has absolutely zero place, and you are literally putting the lives of our servicemembers in danger. you are concretely saying that units need to look a certain way by color. i just pose this quick question. i do not know how much time i have remaining, but i will bet you all over there cannot tell me what my background is. am i part black? part brown? part white? what am i? i yield time to you for a colloquy if you want to answer that. what am i? the acting chair. members are reminded to direct their remarks to the chair. mr. mast. mr. chair, i will bet they cannot tell me. i hear silence because you do not know what i am. you do not know that i am half mexican. you cannot look at me and see that, but you believe that units should be made up of something that you cannot see and that you cannot ask about. it is idiotic policy and dangerous for our servicemembers, and they deserve better from the other side. the acting chair. the chair would again remind members to direct their remarks to the chair. ms. strickland. mr. chair, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new york (mr. ryan), vice ranking member of the house armed services committee. mr. ryan. mr. chair, i thank my colleague for his service. mr. chair, i rise as a proud graduate of the united states military academy at west point and a representative of the academy today. whether my colleagues want to recognize it or not, particularly those on the far right, we have an increasingly growing diverse force. as mr. kim said, unit cohesion, we can all agree, is essential and critical, both in the heat of battle and in training and preparation. this amendment would unequivocally, as you heard from retired military officers across the world, weaken unit cohesion. even the considerably--to be generous--conservative supreme court has recognized the distinct interests of these service academies in the court's recent decision that came down just a few weeks ago. we have made great strides at the academies with a focus and bipartisan commitment for decades. west point has gone from 20 percent to 36 percent cadets of minority backgrounds, and the naval academy from 19 percent to 37 percent, but we still have work to do to achieve unit cohesion. mr. banks. mr. chairman, this amendment is simple. it ensures our military service academies are in line with the supreme court's recent decision on the unconstitutionality of race-based affirmative action, and it strives to uphold the ideals of meritocracy, which is nowhere more important than in the united states military. mr. chair, i urge all members to support this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. ms. strickland. mr. chairman, may i inquire as to the time remaining. the acting chair. the gentlewoman has 1 minute remaining. ms. strickland. mr. chair, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. chair, today's military leaders are unequivocal in their support of diversity and leadership. joint chiefs chairman milley considers it fundamental. army chief mcconville calls it a crucial competitive advantage. then-air force chief cq brown called diversity an imperative. marine corps commandant berger said the core of america's strength lies in its diversity. the very government assembled here today, in its amicus brief to the supreme court, characterized a diverse pool of academy graduates as a vital interest on which the nation's future depends. the american people expect and demand that our academies are given every tool and advantage to train leaders capable of fighting and winning our nation's wars. make no mistake, diversity is not synonymous with less qualified. we want the best. we want the brightest. we need the most diverse. this amendment attempts to weaken a concept foundational to our current and future military supremacy, that diversity translates into capability and lethality. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from indiana (mr. banks). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. strickland. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from indiana will be postponed. {time} 0930 amendment no. 64 offered by mr. roy the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 64 printed in house report 118-142. mr. roy. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of subtitle e of title x, insert the following: sec. 10__. prohibition on use of funds to implement certain executive orders. none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this act or otherwise made available for the department of defense for fiscal year 2024 may be used to implement any of the following executive orders: (1) executive order 13990, relating to protecting public health and the environment and restoring science to tackle the climate crisis. (2) executive order 14008, relating to tackling the climate crisis at home and abroad. (3) section 6 of executive order 14013, relating to rebuilding and enhancing programs to resettle refugees and planning for the impact of climate change on migration. (4) executive order 14030, relating to climate-related financial risk. [[page h3583]] (5) executive order 14057, relating to catalyzing clean energy industries and jobs through federal sustainability. (6) executive order 14082, relating to implementation of the energy and infrastructure provisions of the inflation reduction act of 2022. (7) executive order 14096, relating to revitalizing our nation's commitment to environmental justice for all. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 583, the gentleman from texas (mr. roy) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from texas. mr. roy. mr. chair, we have spent the better part of the last several days making clear to the american people that this side of the aisle wants to see a department of defense that is focused on its core mission, defending the united states of america, rather than divvying us up by race and dividing us and separating us. i rise today to ensure that the department of defense is focused on its core mission rather than pursuing the political agenda of climate change to the detriment of the national security of the united states. in 2021, department of defense spokesman john kirby refused to say that china is a bigger national security threat to the united states than climate change. he called them equally important and said it does not do any good to make a relative assessment of national security issues. secretary of defense lloyd austin has said climate change is an existential threat to our nation's security. next week, secretary of state john kerry literally travels to china to discuss climate change, not china's increased aggression against taiwan, not its expansion in the pacific, not its oppression of its people, not the fact that they produce two new coal-fired plants per week on top of the 1,100 they have while we undermine our national security to pursue the climate-fetish agenda of the other side of the aisle. president biden's executive orders have served as the catalyst for massive reforms at the department of defense that compromise national security to advance this climate fetish. the amendment that i offer would prohibit any of the funding in the national defense authorization act, or that flows from that authorization, from being used to carry out president biden's executive orders on climate change. the department of defense's climate adaptation plan includes radical proposals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the expense of our warfighting capabilities. according to the plan, the dod has identified climate change as a critical national security issue. it mandates environmental justice because why miss an opportunity to push divisive ideology? the dod says it will transition to 100 percent carbon-free electricity, meaning america's war machine will literally depend on the wind and the sun. no one, including anyone on this side of the aisle, believes that we should not pursue every advantage and technology to harness energy, no one. in texas, we have embraced wind and we have embraced solar, but to our detriment when we have interfered with the market and interfered with our ability to have energy at our disposal and at our demand. we undermine our grid. we undermine our national security. we undermine reliability. we cause energy prices to go up. in this case, in the context of the national defense authorization act, we should not be pursuing this politically motivated climate fetishization that undermines our national security. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. smith of washington. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. smith of washington. mr. chair, i yield myself such time as i may consume. three quick points here. first of all, it is interesting. you can go back to 2008 and look at john mccain's campaign and, entertainingly, sarah palin's vice presidential statements about how climate change was an existential threat, and this was a bipartisan issue where we talked about why this was a significant challenge that we needed to address. then, of course, barack obama had the audacity to get elected president and pursue that agenda, so suddenly it became political. i just want to make this very, very clear. the belief here is that digging up fossil fuels from below the ground and burning them is bad for life, it is bad for the planet, and it will eventually exterminate the planet. now, if you want to disagree with that, you want to have a little argument about whether or not that is true, we can. i mean, the overwhelming majority of scientists seem to agree with that, but let us hear the argument. it just kills me to sit here and listen to the other side claim that this is a political agenda. now, i understand why they do that, because that skips past the messy part of where you have to actually argue the facts and you can just dismiss it as politics and everyone robotically goes: oh, yes, politics, that is bad. we cannot have that. if we can have an actual discussion about this, if you believe, as the administration does and as, again, i do not know, 80 percent of the scientists believe, that climate change could destroy the fricking planet, then it is worth saying that that is a national security threat at least equivalent to china. yes, there is the possibility of global nuclear war with china that could exterminate the planet, but climate change, the argument is, would exterminate the planet, so i think that is worth thinking about. please believe me when i say this is not a political agenda. it is a heartfelt belief that we have a distinct problem here that needs to be addressed. second: how to address it. come up with alternative sources of energy and make those investments. this is also very important, because even if this was not destroying the planet, our dependency upon oil has been problematic. i know there is this fantasy that we are going to become energy independent. nobody is energy independent. oil is a global marketplace. even if we generate enough energy, we sell it overseas, and saudi arabia and opec therefore have an enormous amount of control over that market. as i have said over and over again, the true answer to this problem is, when gas prices go up, would not it be great to say: that is wonderful, but we do not need that, we have other sources of energy to go to. nothing is more important in the military than energy and access to it. wars are started over having access to the energy that you need. to say that this does not involve national security literally hurts my brain. you need these alternatives. the last argument is on the market: we will let the market decide. the market subsidized the living hell out of the oil industry for 175 years. they have an enormous advantage. the pipelines, the system, the entire thing that was built, was built on our taxpayer dollars. now, what we are saying is if we are going to develop an alternative to that, then we are going to have to help that, as we helped nuclear energy, and a whole of bunch other different things. i do not think i hear the other side complaining about the government subsidizing nuclear energy because that fits within their politics. if i ask nothing else, could we please just have a rational discussion that understands that this is a legitimate policy issue? it is not a fetish. it is not a political debate. it is the fate of the planet and how we manage energy policy, both of which--i am going to take a real bold step here--actually impact national security. i believe that they do, and i believe that anybody would agree with that statement. please, defeat this amendment. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. roy. mr. chair, i appreciate my colleague for basically making the case for the very climate fetish that i describe. when he talks about the need for energy and its existence for national security, my point is having reliable energy. we have to have energy that is available and reliable and dependable. that is the whole point. my colleague talks about nuclear power. great. i am waiting with bated breath for my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to embrace and promote and push noncarbon-producing nuclear power. we have not generated a new nuclear power plant since when, the 1970s? [[page h3584]] georgia is not even off the ground because of federal regulation and interference. the fact is, we are subsidizing and promoting unreliable wind and solar while subsidizing the hell out of electric vehicles, and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle want to use the defense department to continue to promote it, when it engaged in crony capitalism to enrich a small handful of elitists on the back of the hardworking american people while we subsidize china and make ourselves reliable on china for their minerals and what they produce. it is absolutely astonishing that we would turn over our national defense capability to china at this point in time to pursue this radical agenda. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. smith of washington. mr. chair, i would just note that we actually are making investments in nuclear power. it is really expensive and difficult to develop, but the investments are being made. that is part of the agenda. mr. chair, i yield the balance of my time to the gentleman from california (mr. garamendi). mr. garamendi. mr. chair, i am actually quite amazed that we are allowing a political ideology to get in the way of reality and facts. the fact of the matter is that the u.s. military, more than a decade ago, noticed that the climate was changing and they needed to address it. also, the fact is that the largest solar and wind energy systems in the nation are in texas, and texas is dependent upon those for their power when a heat wave arrives. let us be smart here. let us not let ideology and the fact that we want to get into a fight over climate change get in the way of good public policy. it is absolutely essential that the military build for the future, that they build for resiliency. the acting chair. the time of the gentleman has expired. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from texas (mr. roy). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. smith of washington. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from texas will be postponed. the chair understands that amendment no. 65 will not be offered. amendment no. 66 offered by mr. davidson the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 66 printed in house report 118-142. mr. davidson. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of subtitle d of title xvi, insert the following: sec. 16__. exclusive means for the secretary of defense to acquire location information, web browsing history, internet search history, and fourth amendment-protected information. (a) exclusive means.-- (1) foreign intelligence purposes.--title i and sections 303, 304, 703, 704, and 705 of the foreign intelligence surveillance act of 1978 (50 u.s.c. 1801 et seq., 1823, 1824, 1881b, 1881c, 1881d) shall be the exclusive means by which the secretary of defense acquires location information, web browsing history, internet search history, and fourth amendment-protected information of united states persons or persons inside the united states for foreign intelligence purposes. (2) law enforcement purposes.--a warrant obtained by demonstrating probable cause shall be the exclusive means by which the secretary of defense acquires location information, web browsing history, internet search history, and fourth amendment-protected information of united states persons or persons inside the united states for law enforcement purposes. (b) third party.--if the interception, or compelled production, or physical search or seizure of information inside the united states by the secretary of defense would require a warrant, court order, or subpoena under law, the secretary may not obtain that information from a third party in exchange for anything of value without obtaining the warrant, court order, or subpoena that would be required for such interception, compelled production, or physical search or seizure. (c) exception.--notwithstanding subsection (b), the secretary of defense may acquire the types of information specified in subsection (b) in exchange for something of value if-- (1) the information is aggregated or anonymized in such a way that it cannot reasonably be de-anonymized or otherwise linked to any individual or specific group of individuals; and (2) the secretary does not disclose the information to any federal, state, or local law enforcement agency or to any other element of the intelligence community, or any official of such an agency or element. (d) definitions.--in this section: (1) the term ``fourth amendment-protected information'' means information the compelled production of which would require a warrant for law enforcement purposes. (2) the term ``location information'' means information derived or otherwise calculated from the transmission or reception of a radio signal that reveals the approximate or actual geographic location of a customer, subscriber, or device. (3) the term ``united states person'' has the meaning given that term in section 101 of the foreign intelligence surveillance act of 1978 (50 u.s.c. 1801). the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 583, the gentleman from ohio (mr. davidson) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from ohio. mr. davidson. mr. chair, the amendment i have offered would prevent the department of defense from purchasing data that would otherwise require a warrant, court order, or subpoena. the amendment would also end unauthorized surveillance practices. the government is currently circumventing the fourth amendment by purchasing location data, internet browsing data, and other sensitive information. the so-called data broker loophole is a severe threat to the right to privacy in the united states. freedom surrendered is rarely reclaimed, but we must defend our fourth amendment. government surveillance programs are routinely misused and targeted at americans. the fbi, in fact, admits it conducted 278,000 improper searches of american citizens in 2020 alone. if the government can buy its way around the fourth amendment, there will be few meaningful limits on government surveillance. we need to pass this amendment. it at least stops the department of defense from doing that inside the united states of america. mr. chair, i reserve balance of my time. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment, although i am not opposed to the amendment. the acting chair. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from alabama? there was no objection. the acting chair. the gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. chair, i thank the gentleman for offering the amendment. ubiquitous commercial data collection and bulk data sales represent a privacy concern for all americans. companies and governments alike have access to once unimaginable amounts of user data through commercial channels. this development and the fourth amendment questions that come with it deserve full consideration. i look forward to working with the gentleman on this amendment to ensure that these issues are addressed in a manner that does not unduly burden the department of defense relative to the rest of the federal government while ensuring its operational needs are met. i think congress will spend a substantial amount of time on the privacy concerns addressed by this amendment in the coming months, and i welcome that discussion. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. {time} 0945 mr. davidson. mr. chairman, i appreciate the support of my colleagues to get this amendment to this point and, frankly, the commitment to the work ahead. it is important for our national security, but the whole premise of the department of defense is to support and defend the constitution of the united states. the way we go about that has to preserve the way of life that our constitution establishes, that the bill of rights guarantees that our protections will exist, and we have a lot of work to do to restore the protections of our fourth amendment. [[page h3585]] this amendment is an important first step, and i ask all of our colleagues to unite and make it a fully bipartisan level of support. mr. chairman, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. jacobs. mr. chair, i want to thank the gentleman from ohio for your partnership on this amendment. my team and i have loved working with you and your team on this issue and appreciate your commitment to making this a bipartisan effort. right now, an existing data broker loophole allows our government to make an end-run around our 4th amendment rights to access our personal information without a warrant, court order, or subpoena. how? because they are buying it. cash does not hold the same legitimacy and authority as a warrant--but right now, it is treated like it does. this is wrong. i am sure that many of my colleagues do not want the department of defense to see what they are looking at online. . . . but there is nothing right now to prevent that. our search and browsing history, location data, health information-- all of this should be off-limits unless a court order says otherwise. and that is why i am so proud to lead this bipartisan amendment to prevent the department of defense from purchasing data that would otherwise require a warrant, court order, or subpoena. our amendment would rein in unauthorized surveillance practices and take a big step forward to protect americans' privacy. i urge my colleagues to support it. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from ohio (mr. davidson). the amendment was agreed to. the acting chair. the chair understands that amendment no. 67 will not be offered. the chair understands that amendment no. 68 will not be offered. the chair understands that amendment no. 69 will not be offered. amendments en bloc no. 1 offered by mr. rogers of alabama mr. rogers of alabama. mr. chair, pursuant to house resolution 583, i offer amendments en bloc. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendments en bloc. amendments en bloc no. 1 consisting of amendment nos. 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 26, 29, 36, 37, 38, 39, 42, 43, 44, 53, 54, 60, 65, 67, 68, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, and 80, printed in house report 118-142, offered by mr. rogers of alabama: amendment no. 2 offered by mr. green of tennessee at the appropriate place in subtitle e of title xii, insert the following: sec. __. limitation on use of funds for production of films and prohibition on use of such funds for films subject to conditions on content or altered for screening in the people's republic of china or at the request of the chinese communist party. (a) limitation on use of funds.--the secretary of defense may only authorize the provision of technical support or access to an asset controlled by or related to the department of defense to enter into a contract relating to the production or funding of a film by a united states company if the united states company, as a condition of receiving the support or access-- (1) provides to the secretary a list of all films produced or funded by that company the content of which has been submitted, during the shorter of the preceding 10-year period or the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this act, to an official of the government of the people's republic of china (prc) or the chinese communist party (ccp) for evaluation with respect to screening the film in the prc; (2) includes, with respect to each such film-- (a) the title of the film; and (b) the date on which such submission occurred; (3) enters into a written agreement with the secretary of defense not to alter the content of the film in response to, or in anticipation of, a request by an official of the government of the prc or the ccp; and (4) submits such agreement to the secretary. (b) prohibition with respect to films subject to conditions on content or altered for screening in china.-- notwithstanding subsection (a), the president may not authorize the provision of technical support or access to any asset controlled by the federal government for, or authorize the head of a federal agency to enter into any contract relating to, the production or funding of a film by a united states company if-- (1) the film is co-produced by an entity located in the prc that is subject to conditions on content imposed by an official of the government of the prc or the ccp; or (2) with respect to the most recent report submitted under subsection (c), the united states company is listed in the report pursuant to subparagraph (c) or (d) of paragraph (2) of that subsection. (c) report to congress.-- (1) in general.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, and annually thereafter, the secretary of defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of congress a report on films disclosed under subsection (a) that are associated with a united states company that has received technical support or access to an asset controlled by the department of defense for, or has entered into a contract with the federal government relating to, the production or funding of a film. (2) elements.--each report required by paragraph (1) shall include the following: (a) a description of each film listed pursuant to the requirement under subsection (a)(1), the content of which was submitted, during the shorter of the preceding 10-year period or the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this act, by a united states company to an official of the government of the prc or the ccp for evaluation with respect to screening the film in the prc, including-- (i) the united states company that submitted the contents of the film; (ii) the title of the film; and (iii) the date on which such submission occurred. (b) a description of each film with respect to which a united states company entered into a written agreement with the department of defense providing the support or access, as applicable, pursuant to the requirement under subsection (a)(2) not to alter the content of the film in response to, or in anticipation of, a request by an official of the government of the prc or the ccp, during the shorter of the preceding 10-year period or the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this act, including-- (i) the united states company that entered into the agreement; and (ii) the title of the film. (c) the title of any film described pursuant to subparagraph (a), and the corresponding united states company described pursuant to clause (i) of that subparagraph-- (i) that was submitted to an official of the government of the prc or the ccp during the preceding 3-year period; and (ii) for which the secretary assesses that the content was altered in response to, or in anticipation of, a request by an official of the government of the prc or the ccp. (d) the title of any film that is described in both subparagraph (a) and subparagraph (b), and the corresponding one or more united states companies described in clause (i) of each such subparagraph-- (i) that was submitted to an official of the government of the prc or the ccp during the preceding 10-year period; and (ii) for which the secretary assesses that the content was altered in response to, or in anticipation of, a request by an official of the government of the prc or the ccp. (d) definitions.--in this section: (1) appropriate committees of congress.--the term ``appropriate committees of congress'' means-- (a) the committee on foreign relations and the committee on armed services of the senate and (b) the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on armed services of the house of representatives. (2) content.--the term ``content'' means any description of a film, including the script. (3) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of defense. (4) united states company.--the term ``united states company'' means a private entity incorporated under the laws of the united states or any jurisdiction within the united states. amendment no. 3 offered by mr. green of tennesee at the appropriate place in title vi, insert the following: sec. 6__. prohibition on sale of chinese goods in commissary stores and military exchanges. the secretary of defense shall prohibit the sale, at a commissary store or military exchange, of goods-- (1) manufactured in china; (2) assembled in china; or (3) imported into the united states from china. amendment no. 4 offered by ms. stefanik of new york strike section 1308 and insert the following: sec. 1308. modification of initiative to support protection of national security academic researchers from undue influence and other security threats. (a) in general.--section 1286(c)(8)(a)(iii) of the john s. mccain national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2019 (10 u.s.c. 4001 note) is amended-- (1) in subclause (i), by striking ``or'' at the end; and (2) by adding at the end of the following: ``(iii) to provide documented support to a defense or an intelligence agency of the applicable country; or''. (b) prohibition on availability of funds.-- (1) in general.--none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2024 or any subsequent fiscal year for the department of defense for research, development, [[page h3586]] test, and evaluation may be provided to an entity that maintains a contract between the entity and an academic institution of the people's republic of china, the russian federation, or another country that-- (a) is identified on the list developed under section 1286(c)(8)(a) of the john s. mccain national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2019 (10 u.s.c. 4001 note) (as amended by subsection (a)); and (b) is included on such list because the institution meets the criteria specified in clause (ii) or clause (iii) of such section. (2) waiver.-- (a) in general.--the secretary of defense may waive the prohibition under paragraph (1) with respect to an entity, on a case-by-case basis, if the secretary determines that such a waiver is appropriate. (b) reporting.--not later than 30 days after issuing a waiver under subparagraph (a), the secretary of defense shall submit to the committees on armed services of the senate and the house of representatives a report that explains the secretary's reasons for issuing the waiver. amendmen no. 6 offered by mr. gallagher of wisconsin at the end of subtitle b of title ii, add the following new section: sec. 2__. limitation on availability of funds for fundamental research collaboration with certain institutions. (a) limitation.--except as provided in subsection (b), none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this act or otherwise made available for any fiscal year for the department of defense may be provided directly or indirectly to an institution of higher education for conducting fundamental research in collaboration with any of the following: (1) an entity of concern. (2) an academic institution of a military, law enforcement, intelligence, or security agency of the people's republic of china, including any institution specified in subsection (e) or identified on the list published under subsection (g)(1) (as applicable), or any individual or entity acting for or on behalf of such an institution. (3) any component of the defense laboratory system in the people's republic of china, including-- (a) any defense science and technology national laboratory, defense science and technology key laboratory, defense core laboratory, or any other laboratory specified in subsection (f) or identified on the list published under subsection (g)(2) (as applicable); or (b) any individual or entity acting for or on behalf of such a laboratory. (b) waiver.--the secretary of defense may waive the limitation under subsection (a), on a case-by-case basis, with respect to a principal investigator at an institution of higher education, if the secretary of defense determines that such a waiver is in the national security interests of the united states. (c) certifications of compliance.-- (1) funding certification.--as a condition of receiving funds from the department of defense, an institution of higher education shall certify to the secretary of defense that the principal investigator of the project of the institution that is applying for funding from the department of defense-- (a) is not conducting fundamental research in collaboration with an entity described in subsection (a) as of the date of the certification; and (b) will not conduct fundamental research in collaboration with such an entity during the period for which such funding is received. (2) contract certification.--as a condition of maintaining a contract with the department of defense, an institution of higher education shall-- (a) using publicly available information, perform due diligence on any academic institution or laboratory the institution is collaborating with, or intends to collaborate with, under the contract; and (b) certify to the secretary of defense that the principal investigator of the project of the institution to which the contract pertains-- (i) has not conducted fundamental research in collaboration with an entity described in subsection (a) at any time during the period in which such contract was in effect, up to and including the date of the certification; and (ii) will not conduct fundamental research in collaboration with such an entity during any period in which such contract is in effect. (3) frequency.--an institution of higher education shall-- (a) submit the certification under paragraph (1) on an annual basis during each year in which the institution receives funds from the department of defense; and (b) submit the certification under paragraph (2) on an annual basis during each year in which a contract is in effect between the institution and the department. (d) report.-- (1) in general.--on an annual basis, the secretary of defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the compliance of the department of defense and institutions of higher education with the requirements of this section. each report shall include, for each waiver issued under subsection (b) in the period covered by the report-- (a) a justification for the waiver; and (b) a detailed description of the type and extent of any collaboration between an institution of higher education and an entity described in subsection (a) allowed pursuant to the waiver, including identification of the institution and entities involved, the type of technology involved, the duration of the collaboration and terms and conditions on intellectual property assignment, as applicable, under the collaboration agreement. (2) form; public availability.--each report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form and shall be made available on a publicly accessible website of the department of defense. (e) chinese academic institutions specified.--beginning on the date of the enactment of this act and continuing until the date of the publication of the first updated list under subsection (g)(1), the academic institutions referred to in subsection (a)(2) are the following: (1) military academic and research institutions of the people's republic of china identified by the china aerospace studies institute (or successor organization) of the department of air force on the publicly available list titled ``academic and research institutions of the people's republic of china, the communist party of china, including the ccp people's liberation army and the people's armed police''. (2) academic institutions of the chinese law enforcement, including the following: (a) people's public security university of china. (b) chinese people's police university. (c) criminal investigation university of china. (d) railway police college. (e) nanjing forest police college. (3) academic institutions of chinese intelligence and security agencies, including the university of international relations. (4) chinese civilian institutions identified by the department of defense for engaging in problematic activities on the list included in the publication of the department of defense titled ``countering unwanted influence in department- funded research at institutions of higher education'' and dated june 30, 2023. (5) any successor to an institution specified in paragraphs (1) through (4). (f) chinese defense laboratories specified.--beginning on the date of the enactment of this act and continuing until the date of the publication of the first list under subsection (g)(2), the components of the defense laboratory system in the people's republic of china referred to in subsection (a)(3) are the following: (1) the laboratories identified by the china aerospace studies institute (or successor organization) of the department of air force on the publicly available list titled ``academic and research institutions of the people's republic of china, the communist party of china, including the ccp people's liberation army and the people's armed police''. (2) any successor to a laboratory specified in paragraph (1). (g) annual updates.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, and not less frequently than annually thereafter, the secretary of defense, in consultation with the director of national intelligence, shall-- (1) publish an updated list of academic institutions of the people's republic of china for purposes of subsection (a)(2) which shall include, at a minimum, each institution specified in subsection (e) (if still in operation) or any successor to such an institution; and (2) publish an updated list of entities that comprise the defense laboratory system of the people's republic of china for purposes of subsection (a)(3) which shall include, at a minimum, each laboratory specified in subsection (f) (if still in operation) or any successor to such a laboratory. (h) effective date.--the limitation under subsection (a) shall apply with respect to the first fiscal year that begins after the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this act and to any subsequent fiscal year. (i) definitions.--in this section: (1) the term ``entity of concern'' has the meaning given that term in section 10114 of the research and development, competition, and innovation act (42 u.s.c. 18912). (2) the term ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given that term in section 102 of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1002) and includes-- (a) any department, program, project, faculty, researcher, or other individual, entity, or activity of such institution; and (b) any branch of such institution within or outside the united states. (3) the term ``fundamental research'' means basic and applied research in science and engineering, the results of which are expected to be published and shared broadly within the scientific community. such term does not include research that is proprietary or classified and subject to access restrictions under other provisions of federal law. (4) the term ``collaboration'' means any level of coordinated activity between an institution of higher education and an entity described in subsection (a), whether direct or indirect, formal or informal, and includes-- (a) sharing of research facilities, resources, or data; (b) transfer, sharing, or dissemination of technology, information, or any technical know-how; (c) any financial or in-kind contribution intended to produce a research product; [[page h3587]] (d) sponsorship or facilitation of research fellowships, visas, or residence permits; (e) joint ventures, partnerships, or other formalized agreements for the purpose of conducting research or sharing resources, data, or technology; (f) inclusion of researchers as consultants, advisors, or members of advisory or review boards; and (g) such other activities as may be determined by the secretary of defense in consultation with the secretary of state and director of national intelligence. (5) the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means-- (a) the committee on armed services and the committee on science, space, and technology of the house of representatives; and (b) the committee on armed services of the senate and the committee on commerce, science, and transportation of the senate. amendment no. 7 offered by mr. gallagher of wisconsin at the appropriate place in title vxiii, insert the following: sec. 18__. prohibition on contracting with certain biotechnology providers. (a) in general.--the head of an executive agency may not-- (1) procure or obtain or extend or renew a contract to procure or obtain any covered biotechnology equipment or service; or (2) enter into a contract or extend or renew a contract with any entity that-- (a) uses covered biotechnology equipment or services acquired after the date of the enactment of this act; or (b) that enters into any contract the performance of which such entity knows or has reason to believe will require the direct use of covered biotechnology equipment or services. (b) prohibition on loan and grant funds.--the head of an executive agency may not obligate or expend loan or grant funds to-- (1) procure or obtain or extend or renew a contract to procure or obtain any covered biotechnology equipment or service: or (2) enter into a contract or extend or renew a contract with an entity described in subsection (a)(2). (c) effective date.--the prohibitions under subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act. (d) waiver authorities.-- (1) specific biotechnology exception.-- (a) waiver.--the head of an executive agency may waive the prohibition under subsection (a) and (b) on a case-by-case basis-- (i) with the approval of the director of the office of management and budget, in consultation with the federal acquisition security council and the secretary of defense; and (ii) if such head submits a notification and justification to the appropriate congressional committees not later than 30 days after granting such waiver. (b) duration.-- (i) in general.--except as provided in clause (ii), a waiver granted under subparagraph (a) shall last for a period of not more than 180 days. (ii) extension.--the director of the office of management and budget, in consultation with the federal acquisition security council and the secretary of defense, may extend a waiver granted under subparagraph (a) one time, for a period up to 180 days after the date on which the waiver would otherwise expire, if such an extension is in the national security interests of the united states and the director submits to the appropriate congressional committees a notification of such waiver. (2) overseas health care services.--the head of an executive agency may waive the prohibitions under subsections (a) and (b) with respect to a contract, subcontract, or transaction for the acquisition or provision of health care services overseas on a case-by-case basis-- (a) if the head of such executive agency determines that the waiver is-- (i) necessary to support the mission or activities of the employees of such executive agency described in subsection (e)(2)(a); and (ii) in the interest of the united states; (b) with the approval of the director of the office of management and budget, in consultation with the federal security acquisition council and the secretary of defense; and (c) if such head submits a notification and justification to the appropriate congressional committees not later than 30 days after granting such waiver. (e) exceptions.--the prohibitions under subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply to-- (1) any activity subject to the reporting requirements under title v of the national security act of 1947 (50 u.s.c. 3091 et seq.) or any authorized intelligence activities of the united states; (2) the acquisition or provision of health care services overseas for-- (a) employees of the united states, including members of the uniformed services (as defined in section 101(a) of title 10, united states code), whose official duty stations are located overseas; or (b) employees of contractors or subcontractors of the united states-- (i) who are performing under a contract that directly supports the missions or activities of individuals described in subparagraph (a); and (ii) whose primary duty stations are located overseas; or (3) the acquisition, use, or distribution of genetic sequencing data, however complied, that is commercially available. (f) evaluation of certain biotechnology entities.--not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of defense shall determine whether wuxi apptec, axbio, and any subsidiary, affiliate, or successor of such entities, or any other entity headquartered in or organized under the laws of the people's republic of china are a biotechnology company of concern. (g) regulations.-- (1) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the director of the office of management and budget, in coordination with the federal acquisition security council, the federal acquisition regulatory council, the secretary of defense, and other heads of executive agencies as determined appropriate by the director of the office of management and budget, shall establish guidance, as necessary, to implement the requirements of this section. (2) not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the federal acquisition regulatory council shall revise the federal acquisition regulation as necessary to implement the requirements of this section. (h) definitions.--in this section: (1) appropriate congressional committees.--the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means-- (a) the committees on armed services and on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate; and (b) the committee on armed services, the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on oversight and accountability, the committee on energy and commerce, and the select committee on strategic competition between the united states and the chinese communist party of the house of representatives. (2) biotechnology company of concern.--the term ``biotechnology company of concern'' means-- (a) the bgi group, mgi group, or complete genomics, or any subsidiary, parent, affiliate, or successor of such entities; and (b) any entity that-- (i) is subject to the jurisdiction, direction, or control of a foreign adversary; (ii) operates primarily in the biotechnology industry; and (iii) the secretary of defense deems to pose a risk to the national security of the united states. (3) biotechnology equipment or service.--the term ``biotechnology equipment or service'' means-- (a) any instrument, apparatus, machine, or device, including components and accessories thereof, that is designed for use in the research, development, production, or analysis of biological materials as well as any software, firmware, or other digital components that are specifically designed for use in, and necessary for the operation of, such an instrument, apparatus, machine, or device; (b) any service for the research, development, production, analysis, detection, or provision of information related to biological materials, including-- (i) advising, consulting, or support services provided by a biotechnology company of concern with respect to the use or implementation of a instrument, apparatus, machine, or device described in subparagraph (a); and (ii) disease detection, genealogical information, and related services; and (c) any other service, instrument, apparatus, machine, component, accessory, device, software, or firmware that the federal acquisition security council, in coordination with the secretary of defense and such other heads of executive agencies (as determined by the federal acquisition security council), determines appropriate. (4) control.--the term ``control'' has the meaning given to that term in section 800.208, tile 31, code of federal regulations, or any successor regulations (5) covered biotechnology equipment or service.--the term ``covered biotechnology equipment or service'' means a biotechnology equipment or service produced or provided by a biotechnology company of concern. (6) executive agency.--the term ``executive agency'' has the meaning given such term in section 105 of title 5, united states code. (7) foreign adversary.--the term ``foreign adversary'' has the meaning given the term ``covered nation'' in section 4872(d) of title 10, united states code. (8) overseas.--the term ``overseas'' means any area outside of the united states, the commonwealth of puerto rico, or a territory or possession of the united states. amendment no. 8 offered by mr. gallagher of wisconsin at the end of subtitle b of title ii, add the following new section: sec. 2__. audit to identify diversion of department of defense funding to china's research labs. (a) in general.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the department of defense office of inspector general shall conduct a study, and submit a report to congress, regarding the amount of federal funds awarded by the department of defense (whether directly or indirectly) through grants, contracts, subgrants, subcontracts, or any other type of [[page h3588]] agreement or collaboration, during the 10-year period immediately preceding such date of enactment, that-- (1) was provided, whether purposely or inadvertently, to-- (a) the people's republic of china; (b) the communist party of china; (c) the wuhan institute of virology or any other organization administered by the chinese academy of sciences; (d) ecohealth alliance inc., including any subsidiaries and related organizations that are directly controlled by ecohealth alliance, inc.; or (e) any other lab, agency, organization, individual, or instrumentality that is owned, controlled (directly or indirectly), or overseen (officially or unofficially) by any of the entities listed in subparagraphs (a) through (d); or (2) was used to fund research or experiments that could have resulted in the enhancement of any coronavirus, influenza, nipah, ebola, or other pathogen of pandemic potential or chimeric versions of such a virus or pathogen in the people's republic of china or any other foreign country. (b) identification of countries and pathogens.--the report required under subsection (a) shall specify-- (1) the countries in which the research or experiments described in subsection (a)(2) was conducted; and (2) the pathogens involved in such research or experiments. amendment no. 9 offered by mr. desjarlais of tennessee at the end of subtitle c of title xviii, add the following: sec. _. limitation on use of funds. none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this act may be used to engage in direct, bilateral cooperation with the government of the people's republic of china or china- affiliated organizations on biomedical research programs without explicit authorization from the federal bureau of investigation and unless such activities are specifically authorized by a law enacted after the date of enactment of this act. amendment no. 11 offered by mr. perry of pennsylvania add at the end of subtitle a of title xviii the following: sec. 18__. limitation on funds. none of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used by a federal department or agency to refer to taiwan as anything other than ``taiwan'' in a publication or on a departmental or agency website. amendment no. 12 offered by mr. perry of pennsylvania at the end of subtitle a of title xiii, add the following: sec. __. limitation on funds. none of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to promote a ``one country, two systems'' solution for taiwan. amendment no. 13 offered by mr. perry of pennsylvania at the appropriate place in subtitle a of title xiii: sec. __. limitation on use of funds with respect to taiwan military officers. none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this act or otherwise made available to the department of defense may be used to forbid active duty military officers of taiwan from wearing their uniforms during visits to the united states. amendment no. 14 offered by mr. ogles of tennessee at the end of subtitle a of title xiii, add the following: sec. _. oversight of taiwan enhanced resilience act. (a) oversight of taiwan security programs.--section 5502 of the james m. inhofe national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2023 (public law 117-263; 136 stat. 2395; 22 u.s.c. 3351) is amended-- (1) in subsection (e)(2)(a), by inserting ``not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2024 and'' before ``not less than annually''; and (2) in subsection (f)(2)-- (a) in subparagraph (l), by striking ``and'' at the end; (b) in subparagraph (m), by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and (c) by adding at the end the following: ``(n) a description of actions taken to establish or expand a comprehensive training program with taiwan pursuant to section 5504; ``(o) a description of actions taken to establish a joint consultative mechanism with appropriate officials of taiwan, and the multi-year plan to provide for the acquisition of appropriate defensive capabilities by taiwan, pursuant to section 5506 ; and ``(p) the list compiled pursuant to section 5507(a), and a description of actions taken pursuant to sections 5507(b) and 5507(c).''. (b) oversight of regional contingency stockpile for taiwan.--section 5503 of the james m. inhofe national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2023 (public law 117-263; 136 stat. 2395) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(e) appropriate committees of congress defined.--in subsection (d), the term ``appropriate committees of congress'' means-- ``(1) the congressional defense committees; and ``(2) the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives and the committee on foreign relations of the senate.''. amendment no. 15 offered by mrs. mcclain of michigan page 1033, after line 14, add the following: sec. 1859. defund wuhan insititute of virology and ecohealth alliance, inc. (a) wuhan institute of virology.--none of the funds authorized to be appropriated under this act may be made available for the wuhan institute of virology for any purpose. (b) ecohealth alliance, inc..--none of the funds authorized to be appropriated under this act may be made available for any purpose to-- (1) ecohealth alliance, inc.; (2) any subsidiary of ecohealth alliance, inc.; (3) any organization that is directly controlled by ecohealth alliance, inc.; or (4) any organization or individual that is a subgrantee or subcontractor of ecohealth alliance, inc. amendment no. 16 offered by mr. molinaro of new york page 74, line 18, strike the semicolon and insert ``and the identification of potential vulnerabilities in the military systems and infrastructure of the united states that could be exploited by adversarial artificial intelligence applications used by the people's republic of china, the russian federation, and other nefarious actors of concern;''. amendment no. 17 offered by mr. garamendi of california at the appropriate place in subtitle b of title viii, insert the following: sec. 8__. strengthening truthful cost or pricing data requirements. (a) required cost or pricing data and certification.-- section 3702(a)(1) of title 10, united states code, is amended by striking ``only expected to receive one bid shall be required'' and inserting ``only expected to have one offeror, or for which award of a cost-reimbursement contract is contemplated regardless of the number of offers received, shall be required''. (b) exceptions.--section 3703(a) of title 10, united states code, is amended-- (1) in paragraph (1)(a), by striking ``adequate competition'' and all that follows through ``bids'' and inserting ``adequate price competition, except for the award of a cost-reimbursement contract, that results in at least two responsive and viable competing offerors''; and (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``based on adequate price competition that results in at least two responsive and responsible offers'' after ``commercial service''. (c) conforming amendment related to civilian contracts.-- section 3503(a)(2) of title 41, united states code, is amended by inserting ``based on adequate price competition that results in at least two responsive and responsible offers'' after ``commercial service''. amendment no. 18 offered by mr. reschenthaler of pennsylvania at the end of subtitle e of title xii, add the following: sec. _. report. (a) report.-- (1) in general.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of defense shall submit to congress a report on whether any products sold at commissary or exchange stores in fiscal years 2022 or 2023 were produced by companies described in paragraph (2) that have participated in a boycott action against the state of israel. (2) companies described.--the companies described in this paragraph are companies that-- (a) have entered into a contract with the department of defense to sell products described in paragraph (1) the total value of which exceeds $100,000; or (b) companies that have more than 10 full-time employees. (b) sense of congress.--congress is concerned about the antisemitic efforts of the boycott, divestment, and sanctions (bds) movement against the state of israel, including its efforts to delegitimize, isolate, and ultimately destroy the jewish state. (c) definition.--in subsection (a), the term ``boycott action against the state of israel'' means engaging in a boycott action targeting the state of israel, companies or individuals doing business in or with the state of israel, or companies authorized by, licensed by, or organized under the laws of the state of israel to do business. amendment no. 19 offered by mr. lamborn of colorado at the appropriate place in title viii, insert the following: sec. 8__. prohibition on contracting with certain entities. (a) prohibition.-- (1) in general.--except as provided under subsection (b), the department of defense may not enter into, renew, or extend a contract for the procurement of goods or services with an entity described in paragraph (2). (2) entities described.--an entity described in this paragraph is an entity that is engaged in a boycott of the state of israel. (b) exceptions.-- (1) national security.--the prohibition under subsection (a) does not apply-- (a) to the procurement of defense articles or defense services under existing contracts [[page h3589]] or subcontracts, including the exercise of options, for production quantities to satisfy requirements essential to the national security of the united states; (b) if the president determines in writing that-- (i) the entity otherwise sanctioned pursuant to subsection (a) is a sole source supplier of the defense articles or services; (ii) the defense articles or services are essential; and (iii) alternative sources are not readily or reasonably available; (c) if the president determines in writing that such articles or services are essential to the national security under defense production agreements; or (d) to the procurement of-- (i) spare parts that are essential to united states products or production; (ii) component parts essential to united states products or production; (iii) routine servicing and maintenance of products, to the extent that alternative sources are not readily or reasonably available; or (iv) information and technology essential to united states products or production. (2) national security waiver.--the president may waive the application of subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis for periods not to exceed 180 days if the president-- (a) determines that the waiver is in the vital national security interest of the united states; and (b) submits to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the determination and the reasons for the determination. (3) intelligence waiver.--the president may waive the application of subsection (a) on a case-by-case basis for periods not to exceed 180 days if the president-- (a) determines that the waiver is necessary to prevent the disclosure of intelligence sources or methods; and (b) submits to the appropriate congressional committees a report, consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and methods, on the determination and the reasons for the determination. (c) requirement to revise regulations.--not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the federal acquisition regulation, the defense federal acquisition regulation supplement, and the uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and audit requirements for federal awards shall be revised to implement subsection (a). (d) remedies for false information.--if the head of an executive agency determines that an entity has submitted false information pursuant to the requirements of subsection (a) on or after the date on which the applicable revision of regulations required under subsection (c) becomes effective-- (1) the head of the executive agency shall terminate any contract awarded to such entity as a result of such false information and debar or suspend such person from eligibility for federal contracts for a period of not less than 4 years in accordance with the procedures that apply to debarment and suspension under the federal acquisition regulation; and (2) the administrator of general services shall include the entity on the ``list of parties excluded from federal procurement and nonprocurement programs'' maintained by the administrator under part 9 of the federal acquisition regulation. (e) definitions.--in this section: (1) the term ``boycott action'' means refusing to deal, terminating business activities, or limiting commercial relations. (2) the term ``boycott of the state of israel'' means engaging in a boycott action targeting-- (a) the state of israel; and (b)(i) companies or individuals doing business in or with the state of israel; or (ii) companies authorized by, licensed by, or organized under the laws of the state of israel to do business. (3) the term ``entity'' includes-- (a) a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or similar entity; and (b) any wholly-owned subsidiary, majority-owned subsidiary, parent company, or affiliate of an entity described in subparagraph (a). amendment no. 26 offered by mr. desjarlais of tennessee at the end of subtitle c of title xviii, add the following: sec. _. prohibition on use of funds. none of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this act may be used to further any nuclear agreement with iran that has not received explicit congressional approval. amendment no. 29 offered by mr. donalds of florida at the end of subtitle c of title xxxi, insert the following: sec. 31__. military department use of advanced nuclear reactors. (a) in general.--the secretary of each of the military departments shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a statement that, if the military department concerned certifies in such statement that it is interested in potentially using advanced nuclear technology, an identification of what the individual branch would need in regards to enhancing regulatory certainty relating to deploying advanced nuclear reactors for military operations and logistical support. (b) definitions.--in this section: (1) the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means-- (a) the committees on appropriations, armed services, energy and commerce, and natural resources of the house of representatives; and (b) the committees on appropriations, armed services, environment and public works, and energy and natural resources of the senate. (2) the term ``advanced nuclear reactor'' means-- (a) a nuclear fission reactor, including a prototype plant (as defined in sections 50.2 and 52.1 of title 10, code of federal regulations (or successor regulations)), with significant improvements compared to reactors operating on october 19, 2016, including improvements such as-- (i) additional inherent safety features; (ii) lower waste yields; (iii) improved fuel and material performance; (iv) increased tolerance to loss of fuel cooling; (v) enhanced reliability or improved resilience; (vi) increased proliferation resistance; (vii) increased thermal efficiency; (viii) reduced consumption of cooling water and other environmental impacts; (ix) the ability to integrate into electric applications and nonelectric applications; (x) modular sizes to allow for deployment that corresponds with the demand for electricity or process heat; and (xi) operational flexibility to respond to changes in demand for electricity or process heat and to complement integration with intermittent renewable energy or energy storage; (b) a fusion reactor; and (c) a radioisotope power system that utilizes heat from radioactive decay to generate energy. amendment no. 36 offered by mr. jackson of texas at the appropriate place in subtitle a of title v, insert the following: sec. 5__. prohibitions on certain adverse actions regarding a cadet, midshipman, or applicant to a service academy, who refuses to receive a vaccination against covid-19. (a) adverse action.--no adverse action may be taken against a cadet or midshipman at a service academy solely on the basis that such cadet or midshipman refuses to receive a vaccination against covid-19. (b) enrollment.--an individual may not be refused enrollment at a service academy solely on the basis that such individual refuses to receive a vaccination against covid-19. (c) service academy defined.--in this section, the term ``service academy'' has the meaning given such term in section 347 of title 10, united states code. amendment no. 37 offered by mr. wenstrup of ohio at the appropriate place in subtitle c of title vii, insert the following: sec. 5__. study on blood work of members of the armed forces regarding covid-19. (a) study required.--not later than september 30, 2024, the secretary of defense shall conduct a study to test the blood of members of the armed forces relating to relating to covid- 19. (b) elements.--the study under this section shall include the following elements: (1) testing to detect nucleocapsid protein immunoglobin-g antibodies relating to covid-19. (2) testing to detect t-cell immune response to covid-19. (3) an assessment of the efficacy of each vaccine for covid-19 in comparison to-- (a) each other such vaccine; and (b) infection-acquired immunity. (4) an accounting of adverse events (including hyperimmune response), disaggregated by-- (a) each vaccine described in paragraph (3); and (b) history of infection. (c) report.--not later than 180 days after completing the study, the secretary shall submit a report on such study to the committees on armed services of the senate and house of representatives. amendment no. 38 offered by mr. banks of indiana page 194, line 12, insert ``or, with respect the coast guard, the secretary of the department in which the secretary is operating when the coast guard is not operating as a service in the navy,'' after ``military department concerned''. page 195, line 20, insert ``coast guard,'' before ``or space''. page 196, line 20, insert ``coast guard,'' before ``or space''. page 197, line 9, insert ``or, with respect the coast guard, the secretary of the department in which the secretary is operating when the coast guard is not operating as a service in the navy'' after ``military departments''. page 197, line 25, insert ``coast guard,'' before ``or space''. amendment no. 39 offered by mr. norman of south carolina at the end of subtitle b of title vii, add the following new section: [[page h3590]] sec. ___. prohibition of mask mandate to prevent the spread of covid-19 on a military installation in the united states. the secretary of defense may not require that an individual wear a mask, in order to prevent the spread of covid-19, on a military installation inside the united states. amendment no. 42 offered by mr. pfluger of texas at the end of title xviii, insert the following: sec. __. prior notification of housing migrants on military bases. the secretary of defense shall notify local, state, and federal elected officials not later than 90 days before the department of defense uses, creates, or repurposes a military base to house migrants. amendment no. 43 offered by mr. biggs of arizona add at the end of subtitle b of title xii the following: sec. 1220a. report on agreements made by the united states with the taliban. (a) congressional review of agreements made with the taliban.--the secretary of state, in coordination with the secretary of defense and the administrator of the united states agency for international development, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees the following: (1) any agreement made and entered into by the united states and the taliban. submission thereof shall occur not later than 30 days prior to entry absent notification to the appropriate congressional committees, in which case submission thereof shall occur not later than 10 days prior to taking effect. (2) any agreement made and entered into by third parties and the taliban or notice of any such agreement. submission of any such agreement or notice thereof shall occur not later than 30 days after custody by the united states. (b) report on prior agreements with the taliban.--not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of state, in coordination with the secretary of defense and the administrator of the united states agency for international development, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees any agreements made and entered into by the united states or third parties and the taliban from august 1, 2021, until such date of enactment. (c) definitions.--in this section: (1) agreement.--the term ``agreement'' includes memoranda of understanding and other manifestations of mutual assent. (2) appropriate congressional committees.--the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the congressional defense committees, the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives, and the committee on foreign relations of the senate. (3) third parties.--the term ``third parties'' means organizations or entities in receipt of united states government funding, including sub-recipients thereof. amendment no. 44 offered by mr. rosendale of montana at the end of subtitle d of title x, insert the following: sec. 10__. limitation on authority of armed forces to detain citizens of the united states. section 1021(b) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2012 (public law 112-81; 10 u.s.c. 801 note) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting ``, other than a citizen of the united states,'' after ``any person''. amendment no. 53 offered by mr. norman of south carolina at the end of subtitle a of title x, insert the following: sec. 10__. audit requirement for department of defense components. (a) in general.--during fiscal year 2024, and during each of the nine fiscal years thereafter, each component of the department of defense shall be subject to an independent audit. any such component that fails to be subject to such an audit during any fiscal year shall have 1.5 percent of unobligated amounts available for the component be cancelled and returned to the general fund of the treasury for deficit reduction, except as provided in subsection (b). (b) exceptions.--the following accounts are excluded from any reductions: (1) military personnel, reserve personnel, and national guard personnel accounts of the department of defense. (2) the defense health program account of the department of defense. amendment no. 54 offered by mr. biggs of arizona at the end of subtitle a of title x, add the following new section: sec. 10__. department of defense spending reductions in absence of submitted financial statements or failure to achieve unqualified or qualified independent audit opinion. (a) applicability.-- (1) in general.--subject to paragraph (2), this section applies to the department of defense, including military departments and defense agencies thereof. (2) separate applicability.--if a military department or defense agency is identified by the director of the office of management and budget as required to have its own audited financial statement under section 3515 of title 31, united states code, that military department and defense agency shall be treated separately from the department of defense for purposes of application of this section. (b) definitions.--in this section: (1) the terms ``financial statement'' and ``external independent auditor'' have the meanings given those terms in section 3521(e) of title 31, united states code. (3) the term ``unqualified'', with respect to the audit status of a financial statement, includes the characterizations clean and unmodified. (2) the term ``qualified'', with respect to the audit status of a financial statement, includes the characterization modified. (c) adjustments for financial accountability.-- (1) in general.--on march 2 of each fiscal year, the discretionary budget authority available for the department of defense (or a military department or defense agency covered by subsection (a)(2)) for such fiscal year shall be adjusted as provided in paragraph (2). (2) adjustment.--if the department of defense (or a military department or defense agency covered by subsection (a)(2)) has not submitted a financial statement for the previous fiscal year, or if such financial statement has not received either an unqualified or a qualified audit opinion by an independent external auditor, the discretionary budget authority available for the department of defense, the military department, or the defense agency (as the case may be) shall be reduced by .5 percent, with the reduction applied proportionately to each account (other than an account listed in subsection (d) or an account for which a waiver is made under subsection (e)). (3) minimizes national security effects.--consistent with applicable laws, the secretary of defense may make any reduction under paragraph (2) in a manner that minimizes any effect on national security. (4) deficit reduction.--an amount equal to the total amount of any reduction under paragraph (2) shall be retained in the general fund of the treasury for the purposes of deficit reduction. (d) accounts excluded.--the following accounts are excluded from any reductions referred to in subsection (c)(2): (1) military personnel, reserve personnel, and national guard personnel accounts of the department of defense. (2) the defense health program account of the department of defense. (e) waiver.--the president may waive subsection (c)(2) with respect to an account if the president certifies that applying the subsection to that account would harm national security or members of the armed forces who are deployed in combat zones. (f) report.--not later than 60 days after an adjustment under subsection (c), the director of the office of management and budget shall submit to congress a report describing the amount and account of each adjustment. amendment no. 60 offered by mr. gosar of arizona at the end of subtitle g of title x, insert the following: sec. 10__. public disclosure of afghanistan war records. the secretary of defense shall expeditiously disclose to the public all records relating to the war in afghanistan. amendment no. 65 offered by mr. luttrell of texas at the end of subtitle b of title xii, add the following new section: sec. 12__. report on provision of funding and other assistance to iraqi popular mobilization forces. (a) report.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of defense and the director of national intelligence, in coordination with the secretary of state, shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report containing-- (1) an assessment of whether united states assistance has been provided to, or has benefitted, the iraqi popular mobilization forces for military training or professional military education, including through assistance provided to the ministry of defense of iraq; (2) an assessment of whether united states assistance has been provided to, or has benefitted, any person who is-- (a) a member of any organization designated a foreign terrorist organization by the secretary of state under section 219 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1189); or (b) a person determined by the secretary of the treasury to be a specially designated national. (3) a description of how the government of iraq and the federal budget of such government provide direct funding to the iraqi popular mobilization forces; and (4) an assessment of how the relationship and interactions between the ministry of defense of iraq and the iraqi popular mobilization forces affect the strategic framework agreement for a relationship of friendship and cooperation between the united states and the republic of iraq, done at baghdad on november 17, 2008, and entered into force january 1, 2009. (b) appropriate congressional committees defined.--in this section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means-- [[page h3591]] (1) the committee on armed services, the committee on foreign affairs, and the permanent select committee on intelligence of the house of representatives; and (2) the committee on armed services, the committee on foreign relations, and the select committee on intelligence of the senate. amendment no. 67 offered by mr. mike garcia of california at the end of subtitle a of title v, add the following new section: sec. 6__. increases to monthly rates of basic pay for certain enlisted members of the uniformed services. (a) establishment of certain minimum rates.--beginning on january 1, 2024, the rate of monthly basic pay for certain enlisted members of the uniformed services shall be paid in accordance with the following: (1) in the case of a member in grade e-1 with more than four months of service, such rate may not be less than $2,600.60. (2) in the case of a member in grade e-2, such rate may not be less than $2,799.20. (3) in the case of a member in grade e-3-- (a) with less than three years of service, such rate may not be less than $2,900.90; (b) with at least three, but less than four, years of service, such rate may not be less than $2,950.60; (c) with at least four, but less than six, years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,000.60; and (d) with at least six years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,050.60. (4) in the case of a member in grade e-4-- (a) with less than two years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,010.50; (b) with at least two, but less than three, years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,060.60; (c) with at least two, but less than three, years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,100.10; (d) with at least four, but less than six, years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,150.80; (e) with at least six, but less than eight, years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,210.30; and (f) with at least eight years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,260.30. (5) in the case of a member in grade e-5-- (a) with less than two years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,100.30; (b) with at least two, but less than three, years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,150.20; (c) with at least two, but less than three, years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,200.20; and (d) with at least four years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,250.20. (6) in the case of a member in grade e-6 with less than two years of service, such rate may not be less than $3,210. (b) adjustment.--any adjustment, under section 1009 of title 37, united states code, and effective on january 1, 2024, to a rate of basic monthly pay for a member described in subsection (a), shall be an adjustment to the applicable rate established by such subsection. amendment no. 68 offered by mrs. boebert of colorado in subtitle d of title xxviii, add at the end the following: sec. 28__. closure and disposal of the pueblo chemical depot, pueblo county, colorado. (a) in general.--the secretary of the army shall close pueblo chemical depot in pueblo county, colorado (in this section referred to as the ``depot''), not later than one year after the completion of the chemical demilitarization mission in such location in accordance with the chemical weapons convention treaty. (b) procedures.--the secretary of the army shall carry out the closure and subsequent related property management and disposal of the depot, including the land, buildings, structures, infrastructure, and associated equipment, installed equipment, material, and personal property that comprise the chemical agent-destruction pilot plant, in accordance with the procedures and authorities for the closure, management, and disposal of property under the appropriate base closure laws (as defined in section 101 of title 10, united states code). (c) office of local defense community cooperation activities.--the office of local defense community cooperation of the department of defense may make grants and supplement other federal funds pursuant to section 2391 of title 10, united states code, to support closure and reuse activities of the depot. (d) treatment of existing permits.--nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the removal or demolition by the program executive office, assembled chemical weapons alternatives of the department of the army of existing buildings, structures, infrastructure, and associated equipment, installed equipment, material, and personal property of the chemical agent-destruction pilot plant at the depot in accordance with the existing hazardous waste permit number co-20-09-02-01 under the solid waste disposal act (42 u.s.c. 6901 et seq.) (commonly known as the resource conservation and recovery act of 1976) issued by the state of colorado, or any associated or follow-on permits under such act. (e) homeless use.--given the nature of activities undertaken at the chemical agent-destruction pilot plant at the depot, such land, buildings, structures, infrastructure, and associated equipment, installed equipment, material, and personal property comprising the chemical agent-destruction pilot plant is deemed unsuitable use to assist the homeless, and in carrying out any closure, management, or disposal of property under this section, need not be screened for use to assist the homeless pursuant to section 2905(b) of the defense base closure and realignment act of 1990 (part a of title xxix of public law 101-510; 10 u.s.c. 2687 note). amendment no. 70 offered by mr. cloud of texas at the end of title viii, add the following: sec.___ . review of proposed actions. section 183a(c)(3) of title 10, united states code, is amended by inserting ``the clearinghouse shall ensure that a governor has at least 120 days after the date on which the governor receives the notice of presumed risk to provide any such comments and shall provide detailed information and other information necessary to ensure that the governor can fully understand the nature of the presumed risk'' after the first sentence. amendment 71 offered by mr. edwards of north carolina at the end of subtitle e of title xxviii, insert the following: sec. 28__. survey of certain counties for placement of facilities. (a) survey required.--not later than one year afer the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of defense shall submit to congress the results of a survey of the counties described in subsection (b) to assess potential placement of operational, training, or other facilities for use by the military departments in such counties. (b) counties described.--the counties described in this subsection are located in the state of north carolina and are as follows: (1) buncombe county. (2) cherokee county. (3) clay county. (4) graham county. (5) haywood county. (6) henderson county. (7) jackson county. (8) macon county. (9) madison county. (10) mcdowell county. (11) polk county. (12) rutherford county. (13) swain county. (14) transylvania county. (15) yancey county. (c) survey requirements.--the survey required under subsection (a) shall include the following: (1) an assessment of the mountainous and varied terrains in the areas described in subsection (b) and the feasibility of programs that use this geography, including programs for basic survival skills, dam and reservoir exercises, whitewater rafting exercises, thick vegetation exercises, air drop exercises, and mountainous warfare exercises. (2) an evaluation of defense assets located in the state of north carolina and the lack of defense assets in the area described in subsection (b). (d) survey considerations.--the survey shall assesses the feasibility of the placement of operational, training, and other facilities as follows: (1) consideration of relevant civilian assets in the area described in subsection (b). (2) consideration of assets of department of defense contractors in such area. (3) proximity of such to current defense assets, including fort liberty. (4) consideration of the geographic similarities of such area to geographic regions critical to united states defense policy, including the indo-pacific region, europe, the middle east, and africa. amendment no. 72 offered by mr. lawler of new york at the end of subtitle a of title xiii, insert the following new section: sec. 13__. sense of congress on defense intelligence sharing between the republic of korea, japan, and taiwan. it is the sense of the congress that defense intelligence sharing between the united states and the republic of korea, japan, and taiwan, is crucial for identifying and countering the malign activities of the people's republic of china and the democratic people's republic of korea, that threaten the interests of the united states, our allies and partners in the indo-pacific region. amendment no. 73 offered by mr. gallagher of wisconsin at the end of subtitle e of title xii, add the following new section: sec. 12__. limitation on availability of funds pending plan regarding delivery of harpoon missiles and other coastal defense capabilities to security partners. (a) limitation.--of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2024, and available for the office of the secretary of defense for the travel of persons, not more than 90 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which the under secretary of defense for acquisition and sustainment submits to the congressional defense committees the plan required under subsection (b). (b) plan required.-- [[page h3592]] (1) in general.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the under secretary of defense for acquisition and sustainment shall develop and implement a plan to provide covered harpoon missiles to security partners pursuant to the authority provided under section 506 of the foreign assistance act of 1961 (22 u.s.c. 2318). (2) elements.--the plan under paragraph (1) shall address the following: (a) lessons learned from any similar experiences in support of military forces of security partners in 2022. (b) consultation with private industry. (c) use of existing ground-based launchers. (d) use of existing vehicles of the federal government. (e) integration and modernization of required systems. (f) any security risks, challenges, and mitigation steps required. (g) expected costs. (h) a timeline for the delivery of covered harpoon missiles to security partners. (3) submittal to congress.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the under secretary of defense for acquisition and sustainment, shall submit to the congressional defense committees the plan required under paragraph (1). (c) covered harpoon missile defined.--in this section, the term ``covered harpoon missile'' means a block ic harpoon missile designated with a ``sundown'', ``deep stow'', or ``demilitarized'' condition code and includes missiles with that designation that have been removed from surface vessels of the navy. amendment no. 74 offered by mr. tony gonzales of texas at the appropriate place in title xi, insert the following: sec. 11__. national digital reserve corps. (a) in general.--subpart i of part iii of title 5, united states code, is amended by adding at the end the following new chapter: ``chapter 104--national digital reserve corps ``10401. definitions. ``10402. establishment. ``10403. organization. ``10404. assignments. ``10405. reservist continuing education. ``10406. congressional reports. ``10407. construction. ``sec. 10401. definitions ``in this chapter: ``(1) active reservist.--the term `active reservist' means a reservist holding a position to which such reservist has been appointed under section 10403(c)(2). ``(2) administrator.--the term `administrator' means the administrator of the general services administration. ``(3) covered executive agency.--the term `covered executive agency' means an executive agency as defined in section 105, except that such term includes the united states postal service, the postal regulatory commission, and the executive office of the president. ``(4) program.--the term `program' means the program established under section 10402(a). ``(5) reservist.--the term `reservist' means an individual who is a member of the national digital reserve corps. ``sec. 10402. establishment ``(a) establishment.--there is established in the general services administration a program to establish, recruit, manage, and assign a reserve of individuals with relevant skills and credentials, to be known as the `national digital reserve corps', to help address the digital and cybersecurity needs of covered executive agencies. ``(b) implementation.-- ``(1) guidance.--not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this section, the administrator, in consultation with the director of the office of personnel management, shall issue guidance for the national digital reserve corps, which shall include procedures for coordinating with covered executive agencies to-- ``(a) identify digital and cybersecurity needs which may be addressed by the national digital reserve corps; and ``(b) assign active reservists to address such needs. ``(2) recruitment and initial assignments.--not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section, the administrator shall begin recruiting reservists and assigning active reservists under the program. ``sec. 10403. organization ``(a) administration.-- ``(1) in general.--the national digital reserve corps shall be administered by the administrator. ``(2) responsibilities.--in carrying out the program, the administrator shall-- ``(a) establish standards for serving as a reservist, including educational attainment, professional qualifications, and background checks in accordance with existing federal guidance; ``(b) ensure the standards established under subparagraph (a) are met; ``(c) recruit individuals to the national digital reserve corps; ``(d) activate and deactivate reservists as necessary; ``(e) coordinate with covered executive agencies to-- ``(i) determine the digital and cybersecurity needs which reservists shall be assigned to address; ``(ii) ensure active reservists have access, resources, and equipment required to address digital and cybersecurity needs which such reservists are assigned to address; and ``(iii) analyze potential assignments for reservists to determine outcomes, develop anticipated assignment timelines, and identify covered executive agency partners; ``(f) ensure reservists acquire and maintain appropriate security clearances; and ``(g) determine what additional resources, if any, are required to successfully implement the program. ``(b) national digital reserve corps participation.-- ``(1) service obligation agreement.-- ``(a) in general.--an individual may become a reservist only if such individual enters into a written agreement with the administrator to become a reservist. ``(b) contests.--the agreement under subparagraph (a) shall-- ``(i) require the individual seeking to become a reservist to serve as a reservist for a 3-year period, during which such individual shall serve not less than 30 days per year as an active reservist; and ``(ii) set forth all other the rights and obligations of the individual and the general services administration. ``(2) compensation.--the administrator shall determine the appropriate compensation for service as a reservist, except that the annual pay for such service shall not exceed $10,000. ``(3) employment protections.--the secretary of labor shall prescribe such regulations as necessary to ensure the reemployment, continuation of benefits, and nondiscrimination in reemployment of active reservists, provided that such regulations shall include, at a minimum, those rights and obligations set forth under chapter 43 of title 38. ``(4) penalties.-- ``(a) in general.--a reservist that fails to accept an appointment under subsection (c)(2) or fails to carry out the duties assigned to a reservist under such an appointment shall, after notice and an opportunity to be heard-- ``(i) cease to be a reservist; and ``(ii) be fined an amount equal to the sum of-- ``(i) an amount equal to the amounts, if any, paid under section 10405 with respect to such reservist; and ``(ii) the difference between the amount of compensation such reservist would have received if the reservist completed the entire term of service as a reservist agreed to in the agreement described in paragraph (1) and the amount of compensation such reservist has received under such agreement. ``(b) exception.-- ``(i) in general.--subparagraph (a) shall not apply with respect to a failure of a reservist to accept an appointment under subsection (c)(2) or to carry out the duties assigned to the reservist under such an appointment if-- ``(i) the failure was due to the death or disability of such reservist; or ``(ii) the administrator, in consultation with the head of the relevant covered executive agency, determines that subparagraph (a) should not apply with respect to the failure. ``(ii) relevant covered executive agency defined.--in this subparagraph, the term `relevant covered executive agency' means-- ``(i) in the case of a reservist failing to accept an appointment under subsection (c)(2), the covered executive agency to which such reservist would have been appointed; and ``(ii) in the case of a reservist failing to carry out the duties assigned to such reservist under such an appointment, the covered executive agency to which such reservist was appointed. ``(c) hiring authority.-- ``(1) corps leadership.--the administrator may appoint qualified candidates to positions in the competitive service in the general service administration for which the primary duties are related to the management or administration of the national digital reserve corps, as determined by the administrator. ``(2) corps reservists.-- ``(a) in general.--the administrator may appoint qualified reservists to temporary positions in the competitive service for the purpose of assigning such reservists under section 10404 and to otherwise carry out the national digital reserve corps. ``(b) appointment limits.-- ``(i) in general.--the administrator may not appoint an individual under this paragraph if, during the 365-day period ending on the date of such appointment, such individual has been an officer or employee of the executive or legislative branch of the united states government, of any independent agency of the united states, or of the district of columbia for not less than 130 days. ``(ii) automatic appointment termination.--the appointment of an individual under this paragraph shall terminate upon such individual being employed as an officer or employee of the executive or legislative branch of the united states government, of any independent agency of the united states, or of the district of columbia for 130 days during the previous 365 days. ``(c) employee status.--an individual appointed under this paragraph shall be considered a special government employee (as such term is defined in section 202(a) of title 18). [[page h3593]] ``(d) conflict of interest.--individuals appointed under this section shall not, as an active reservist, have access to proprietary or confidential information that is of commercial value to any private entity or individual employing such appointee. ``(e) additional employees.--individuals appointed under this paragraph shall be in addition to any employees of the general services administration whose duties relate to the digital or cybersecurity needs of the general services administration. ``sec. 10404. assignments ``(a) in general.--the administrator may assign active reservists to address the digital and cybersecurity needs of covered executive agencies, including cybersecurity services, digital education and training, data triage, acquisition assistance, guidance on digital projects, development of technical solutions, and bridging public needs and private sector capabilities. ``(b) assignment-specific access, resources, supplies, or equipment.--the head of a covered executive agency shall, to the extent practicable, provide each active reservist assigned to address a digital or cybersecurity need of such covered executive agency under subsection (a) with any specialized access, resources, supplies, or equipment required to address such digital or cybersecurity need. ``(c) duration.--an assignment of an individual under subsection (a) shall terminate on the earlier of-- ``(1) the date determined by the administrator; ``(2) the date on which the administrator receives notification of the decision of the head of the covered executive agency, the digital or cybersecurity needs of which such individual is assigned to address under subsection (a), that such assignment should terminate; or ``(3) the date on which the assigned individual ceases to be an active reservist. ``sec. 10405. reservist continuing education ``(a) in general.--subject to the availability of appropriations, the administrator may pay for reservists to acquire training and receive continuing education related to the duties assigned to such reservists pursuant to appointments under section 10403(c)(2), including attending conferences and seminars and obtaining certifications, that will enable reservists to more effectively meet the digital and cybersecurity needs of covered executive agencies. ``(b) application.--the administrator shall establish a process for reservists to apply for the payment of reasonable expenses related to the training or continuing education described in subsection (a). ``(c) report.--not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section, and annually thereafter, the administrator shall submit to congress a report on the expenditures under this subsection. ``sec. 10406. congressional reports ``not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this section, and annually thereafter, the administrator shall submit to congress a report on the program, including-- ``(1) the number of reservists; ``(2) a list of covered executive agencies that have submitted requests for support from the national digital reserve corps; ``(3) the nature and status of such requests; and ``(4) with respect to each such request to which active reservists have been assigned and for which work by the national digital reserve corps has concluded, an evaluation of such work and the results of such work by-- ``(a) the covered executive agency that submitted the request; and ``(b) the reservists assigned to such request. ``sec. 10407. construction ``nothing in this chapter shall be construed to abrogate or otherwise affect the authorities or the responsibilities of the head of any other executive agency.''. (b) clerical amendment.--the table of chapters for part iii of title 5, united states code, is amended by inserting after the item related to chapter 103 the following new item: ``104. national digital reserve corps.........................10401.... ''. (c) authorization of appropriations.--there is authorized to be appropriated $30,000,000, to remain available until fiscal year 2025 to carry out the program established under section 10402(a) of title 5, united states code, as added by this section. (d) transition assistance program.--section 1142(b)(3) of title 10, united states code, is amended by inserting ``and the national digital reserve corps'' after ``selected reserve''. (e) offset.--notwithstanding the amounts set forth in the funding tables in division d, the amounts authorized to be appropriated in section 301 for operation and maintence, defense-wide, for office of the secretary of defense, line 490, as specified in the corresponding funding table in section 4301, is hereby reduced by $30,000,000. amendment no. 75 offered by mr. gallagher of wisconsin at end of subtitle a of title xiii, add the following: sec. __. report on defense support for taiwan. (a) in general.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary of defense, in consultation with the secretary of state, shall submit to the appropriate committees of congress a report containing an evaluation of the foreign military sales (fms) processes across all military services for the provision of defense articles, defense services, and training to taiwan pursuant to the taiwan relations act (22 u.s.c. 3301 et seq.). (b) matters to be included.--such report shall contain the following: (1) a description of price and availability data with respect to the provision of defense articles, defense services, and training requested by taiwan during the 2-year period preceding the report. (2) a description of timelines from price and availability data requested to price and availability data provided to taiwan of articles, services, and training described in paragraph (1), including an identification of the specific service lead associated with the provision of such articles, services, and training. (3) a description of when articles, services, and training described in paragraph (1) were provided to the department of state for fms authorization. (4) an evaluation of military training activities conducted with taiwan during the 2-year period preceding the report, including-- (a) the objectives of such training activities; (b) funding authority, unless national funds were applied; and (c) an evaluation of the effectiveness of such training activities, including the strengths and weaknesses in taiwan's capacity to absorb the training provided. (5) a description of the articles, services, and training described in paragraph (1) planned to be provided to taiwan during the 1-year period after the period covered by the report. (6) a description of the timeframe from department of state authorization to taiwan signature on the letter of offer and acceptance of articles, services, and training described in paragraph (1) and information on delays in concluding a letter of offer and acceptance. (7) a description of timelines the department of defense took to work with united states industry in entering into contracts associated articles, services, and training described in paragraph (1), including a description of the average timeframes for letters of offer and acceptance. (8) a description of the timeliness of department of defense components' reporting of deliveries articles, services, and training described in paragraph (1). (c) form.--the report required by subsection (a) may include a classified annex. (d) appropriate committees of congress defined.--in this section, the term ``appropriate committees of congress'' means-- (1) the committee on armed services and the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives; and (2) the committee on armed services and the committee on foreign relations of the senate. amendment no. 76 offered by mr. good of virginia at the appropriate place in subtitle a of title xviii of division a, insert the following: sec. 18___. report on china benefitting from united states taxpayer-funded research. (a) in general.--not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of defense, in consultation with the secretary of the treasury, the secretary of commerce, the secretary of state, and the director of national intelligence, shall submit to the committee on the armed services of the house of representatives and the committee on the armed services of the senate a report on the extent to which china has benefitted from united states taxpayer-funded research. (b) contents of report.--the report under subsection (a) shall include the following: (1) the extent to which united states taxpayer-funded research has benefitted china, including a list of entities funded by the united states government or a state government, such as research institutions, laboratories, and institutions of higher education, which have hired chinese nationals or allowed chinese nationals to conduct research, including an estimate of the number of nationals hired or involved in research projects. (2) a list of united states government programs, grants, and other forms of research funding in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math fields that have directly or indirectly cooperated or affiliated with research institutions in china or chinese communist party entities. (3) the extent to which china's funding of united states taxpayer-funded research institutions has benefitted china. (4) how the government of china and the chinese communist party have used united states taxpayer-funded research, including as part of china's efforts to support ``civil- military fusion'' and human rights abuses. definition.--in this section, the term ``united states taxpayer-funded research'' means research-- (1) funded by a grant from the federal government or a state government; or (2) conducted by an institution that receives funding from the federal government or a state government. [[page h3594]] amendment no. 77 offered by mr. graves of missouri page 1190, line 8, strike ``include at least one representative from each of'' and insert ``consist of''. page 1190, strike lines 12 through 16 and insert the following: (2) the superintendent of the united states merchant marine academy; (3) the commandant of the coast guard; (4) the commander of the military sealift command; (5) the secretary of the navy; and (6) at least one representative from each of-- page 1190, beginning on line 17, redesignate paragraphs (6) through (14) as subparagraphs (a) through (i) of paragraph (6), respectively. amendment no. 78 offered by mr. graves of missouri at the appropriate place in title xviii, insert the following: sec. 18__. authority for remembrance of congressman don young with a memorial marker or niche cover and ceremony in arlington national cemetery. notwithstanding section 2409 of title 38, united states code, the memory of congressman don young shall be honored with a memorial marker or niche cover and ceremony in arlington national cemetery, virginia. amendment no. 79 offered by mr. peters of california at the end of subtitle c of title i, insert the following: sec. 1__. limitation on use of government-operated drydocks. the secretary of the navy shall ensure that no government- operated drydock is eligible to compete for the award of a contract for private sector non-nuclear surface ship maintenance unless the secretary determines, in accordance with section 2466 of title 10, united states code, that there is not sufficient private sector dock competition. amendment no. 80 offered by ms. tenney of new york at the appropriate place in subtitle b of title xviii: sec. __. report on efforts to dissuade allies from purchasing weapons from the russian federation and the people's republic of china. (a) in general.--not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of state, in consultation with the secretary of defense, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes-- (1) a detailed description of efforts to dissuade allies from purchasing weapons from the russian federation and the people's republic of china; (2) a list of allies that purchase at least 20 percent of their weaponry by monetary value from the russian federation or the people's republic of china; (3) an evaluation of the security and political concerns with allies purchasing weaponry from the russian federation or the people's republic of china; and (4) an evaluation of the impact that the russia-ukraine war has on allies purchasing weaponry from the russia federation. (b) form.--the report required under subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex. (c) appropriate congressional committees defined.--in this section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means-- (1) the committee on armed services and the committee on foreign relations of the senate; and (2) the committee on armed services and the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 583, the gentleman from alabama (mr. rogers) and the gentleman from washington (mr. smith) each will control 15 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from alabama. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. chair, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from iowa (mr. nunn), my friend and colleague. mr. nunn of iowa. mr. chairman, as a nearly 20-year combat veteran and head of counterintelligence for cybersecurity, i know firsthand the millions of threats that are leveraged against our country on a daily basis. as we look to strengthen our security with this bill offered by the chair and the amendments going forward, i thank those who have worked so diligently on our joint effort to create a national digital reserve corps to buttress our country against this threat. additionally, i will speak about another win for our military, military parents. as both an air force officer, reservist, and national guard member, we have worked on bipartisan legislation, the reserve component parental leave parity act, that i helped lead with representative jeff jackson from north carolina. our servicemen and -women deserve time with their new children, and this policy will expand parental leave for drilling reserve and national guard members to match the leave policies of their active-duty members. the acting chair. the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. rogers. mr. chair, i yield an additional 30 seconds to the gentleman from iowa. mr. nunn of iowa. mr. chair, this is a big, bipartisan win to improve the lives of our members who are serving, including myself as a parent of foster children. unfortunately, as a result of a backroom deal, we were not able to serve those who needed help from suicide prevention. in my home state of iowa, we have almost four times the number of individuals who take their life after coming back from combat. we will not stop fighting for this, and what we cannot include in this amendment we will move forward with the chairman to make sure we are able to protect those who have served overseas and take their own life when coming back. mr. smith of washington. mr. chairman, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from arizona (mr. stanton). mr. stanton. mr. chairman, moving the national defense authorization act forward has almost always been a bipartisan effort. this very bill, as originally drafted, passed out of committee with near unanimous votes from both democrats and republicans, 59-1. that is why it is unconscionable that extremist politicians are willing to jeopardize our military readiness and our national security to push their unpopular partisan agenda. in the dead of night, extreme lawmakers tacked on divisive, dangerous amendments, including one that would prevent servicewomen from accessing critical abortion care. more than 400,000 women serve in active duty and in the reserves. at great personal sacrifice, these servicewomen have sworn an oath to defend the united states and to live, train, and work at assigned duty stations often far from home. almost immediately after roe was overturned last summer, states around the country began enacting draconian abortion bans and restrictions. today, nearly half of the servicewomen no longer have access to abortion care, and many live hundreds of miles from the nearest provider. access to abortion should not depend on where someone lives or where they are stationed. defense secretary lloyd austin rightly noted that the dobbs decision would ``interfere with the u.s. military's ability to recruit, retain, and maintain the readiness of a highly qualified force,'' and announced earlier this year that the dod would cover travel and lodging expenses for servicewomen and military family members forced to travel for healthcare. my colleagues on the other side of the aisle would see that this policy is overturned. mr. chair, i have voted for the ndaa every year that i have served in congress, but i cannot in good conscience vote for this legislation in its current form. we must provide for our national defense. this bill will egregiously harm nearly one-fifth of this country's fighting force. i will not turn my back on our servicewomen and military families. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. chairman, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from california (mr. mike garcia), my friend. mr. mike garcia of california. mr. chairman, i rise in support of this strong ndaa. it prioritizes the true mission of our u.s. military, and that is to deter and to win wars. that is it. it is pretty simple. more specifically, it prioritizes america's greatest national security asset, our brave men and women in uniform who serve on a daily basis. i thank chairman rogers for his support of my amendment within this en bloc that will secure the highest pay raise in history for nearly 1 million of our junior enlisted troops, paid for by the appropriations bill. this takes the starting salary for an e-1 in the military from about $22,000 a year to $31,200 a year. it gets them above the poverty line and off of food stamps. these brave men and women are willing to make the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our freedom, and it is unacceptable that they were making less than fast-food workers. [[page h3595]] mr. chair, i could not be more proud of this historic victory, and i could not be more eager to continue fighting for those who fight so hard to give us our security blanket. mr. smith of washington. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. chair, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. van orden), an outstanding freshman. mr. van orden. mr. chairman, today i rise in opposition of amendment no. 3 in the en bloc. i have tremendous respect for chairmen green and rogers, and i also view the chinese communist party as a threat to world peace. i believe the unintended consequences of this amendment will have a greater negative financial impact on our junior enlisted servicemen who shop at our base exchanges than on the chinese communist party. our junior enlisted currently struggle financially, and implementation of this amendment will unintentionally raise the cost of everyday goods and further exacerbate this strain. mr. chair, for this reason alone, i urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment. mr. smith of washington. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. chairman, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from texas (mr. jackson), my friend. mr. jackson of texas. mr. chairman, i will start by saying that despite the objections of many of the folks on the other side of the aisle regarding this national defense authorization act, which i consider to be an outstanding bill that i am aggressively and enthusiastically supporting, and despite the objections on the other side of the aisle, most of the controversial amendments in this amendment do nothing but return us to the initial and the long-time combat readiness attitude that the military has always had and focuses all of our efforts on that particular goal. mr. chair, i rise in support of this en bloc amendment. this en bloc includes an amendment of mine which will prohibit cadets or midshipmen from being punished for not receiving the covid vaccine. an adverse action documented in a member's service record can have a devastating impact, potentially ending a rising military career before it even has an opportunity to begin. last year, here on the floor of the house, ranking member smith told us that another vaccine mandate could be implemented in the future if the biden administration decided to do so. i refuse to sit on the sidelines and let the biden administration's politically motivated efforts to appease the radical left cost young men and women their futures. mr. chair, i strongly urge support of the overall ndaa. mr. smith of washington. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. chairman, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from new york (mr. molinaro), my friend. mr. molinaro. mr. chairman, i rise both in appreciation and support of my amendment included in the en bloc, which will require a study to identify potential vulnerabilities in u.s. military systems and infrastructure that could be exploited by adversarial ai applications used by china, russia, and other adversaries. mr. chair, i thank the chairman for his leadership in this house and for supporting a number of amendments that were included and adopted yesterday. these amendments will support military families and their children with intellectual and developmental disabilities, ensure the dod guarantees full access and coverage to life-saving opioid overdose reversal drugs, and requires our nation's biodefense strategy, along with helping the army meet its goals to modernize aircraft and more. mr. chair, i extend my appreciation. mr. smith of washington. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. chair, we have no further speakers if the gentleman would like to close, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. smith of washington. mr. chair, i yield myself 2 minutes. mr. chair, i will have remarks in a moment while, regrettably, i am not supporting this particular bill. that does not change how much respect i have for the process and for all the people who participated in that process. i want to make sure we understand that. one of the things i always say, i believe in democracy more than i believe in my own opinion, which means that the process is important and the way we put that process together and that we move through it. in particular, i definitely thank the staff, certainly our staff on the house armed services committee that has done an outstanding job, the rules committee staff, as well, but also the floor staff and the parliamentarians and the folks who have to put the amendments together and put the legislation together. throughout this process from the very start, when the original bill was introduced, to all of the amendments, we have to run through these numbers, it is in the thousands, basically, of amendments and ideas that are submitted. from the moment we put together the initial bill, we amend it in committee, they deal with rules, they amend it on the floor--we are talking literally thousands of different pieces of legislation and ideas that have to be brought together. members do not do any of that. we spout out ideas, and a whole bunch of staff work really hard to get that done. i thank them very, very much for all of that work to make this process go forward. mr. chair, it is a good, robust bipartisan approach. we have the amendments, we have the debates, and we resolve it. one thing i will make clear, i am not thrilled with the outcome of the rules committee, but that is the nature of being in the minority. when you are in the majority, the rules committee does what the rules committee does, and the minority complains about it. that is the way this place works. that is fine. i might have done it differently in terms of trying to figure out how to pass the bill. at the end of the day, i do not have any process objection here. the amendments were put on the floor, and they passed. i am not concerned about that. i am concerned about the outcome, and i will explain that later. mr. chair, i will take a moment to really make it clear how much i thank all the people who put this process together, in particular, i thank chairman rogers for his work. the acting chair. the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. smith of washington. mr. chair, i yield myself an additional 30 seconds. mr. chair, it is not as easy as it looks. let me just sum that up. there are a whole lot of things you have to manage, including the minority part. chairman rogers has done an outstanding job of doing that in his first year as chair, and i appreciate that and i respect that. i thank everybody for the process they put together. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. {time} 1000 mr. rogers of alabama. mr. chair, i am prepared to close, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. smith of washington. mr. chair, i yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from pennsylvania (ms. houlahan), who is a member of the committee. ms. houlahan. mr. chair, later today, i will offer the motion to recommit on this bill. i stand with my colleagues who have stood shoulder to shoulder in support of our brave servicemembers in an effort to put together this bill for the last nearly 1 year. i stand with the spirit of those who are currently serving in uniform who are sick and tired of this legislative body politicizing their lives, their livelihoods, and their bodily autonomy. i rise today in honor of my grandfather and my father, who served full, distinguished careers in the military, and my mom and my grandmother, who served as military spouses, each for over 30 years. i rise today as someone who was born and grew up on a military base and moved across this nation and to other countries. i rise as someone who raised my own hand and my own child when [[page h3596]] the time came. i rise for my cousins who serve today. i do not need my colleagues to tell me what it is like to be a mom in uniform because i lived that experience, or a child in the military. i lived that, too. here i am today, standing up on behalf of all servicewomen and military families who are willing to risk their lives for our freedoms, yet we are not willing to protect theirs. what i have seen on the floor over the past 2 days has really saddened me: targeting lgbtq families like my own, targeting libraries, targeting the reproductive freedoms of servicewomen and military families stationed in states that do not respect their own bodily autonomy. chair, we even saw a colleague refer to our black servicemembers as ``colored people.'' to my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, let me make a few things clear. we agree there are threats around the world like china that we should be spending our time and efforts on. we agree the historic recruitment challenges we face are a risk to our national security. we agree the brave men and women who serve in uniform should not be used as political pawns. so why did this republican-led body decide to take a historically bipartisan piece of legislation from the house armed services committee hostage by adding scores of extreme gop culture war priorities to it, including, least of all, a clear-as-day backdoor policy to a national abortion ban? chair, i want the american people to know that democrats support our men and women in uniform. we proudly voted forward by 58-1 a bipartisan piece of legislation to increase their pay, to improve their housing, and to expand their access to childcare. however, the gop is putting that bipartisan progress in jeopardy, and the toughest part is that they know it. i have a great deal of respect for the handful of my colleagues who recognize the extreme turn that this legislation has taken, and i thank them. so, i look at them again, and i look to them again. we must do what is right by our servicemembers. put the political gamesmanship aside and return this extreme bill back to committee where it can return it to its bipartisan nature. i will work tirelessly across the aisle to ensure that we give the president, our nation, and, in fact, our globe a bill that truly provides for the collective defense of our american values. it really saddens me to say that this bill does not do that. this bill will hurt our recruitment and retention. the acting chair. the time of the gentlewoman has expired. mr. smith of washington. mr. chair, i yield an additional 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from pennsylvania. ms. houlahan. it makes it extremely difficult for a proud veteran like myself and so many others to look at future leaders of america and say that, yes, this military is a home for you. i took the uniform nearly 30 years ago, and it is a travesty that servicewomen today will have less freedoms than i did. chair, i urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this mtr and send this extreme bill back to committee where we can truly deliver for those in uniform. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. chair, i continue to reserve the balance of my time. mr. smith of washington. mr. chair, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. chair, i thank the gentlewoman from pennsylvania, who summed it up reasonably well, but i really want to make sure people understand why we are opposed to this bill. we are opposed to this bill because it is our firm belief that this will undermine our ability to meet the national security objectives of this country. i want to explain why. we can start with the issue of access to reproductive healthcare for women. because of the dobbs decision, there are many states now across this country where you cannot get access to that care. the department of defense, faced with that and having a large number of women and family members of servicemembers in those states, set up a situation to allow those women to get access to that reproductive care. this bill takes that away. mr. chair, if you are a woman concerned about your ability to get an abortion, first of all, or concerned about if you are a servicemember who has a family member who might be concerned about that, you are going to be less likely to join the military. i really do want to emphasize one point that came up during this. i understand a lot of people oppose abortion. they want to ban it outright, and that is why they feel this way. however, do understand the negative impact that that will have on a lot of women's willingness to join the military. it goes beyond abortion, as we have sadly seen. the worst case of this is a woman who miscarries midway through her pregnancy cannot get treated for that. there was one particular case that was cited during the debate of a woman who wound up in the emergency room fighting for her life because of an infection because she could not get that care. if you are a woman, mr. chair, or if you are a man who is considering, ``what about my spouse, and what about my children?'' then you will be less likely to join the military knowing that you have that challenge. so, we are going to have fewer qualified people willing to join the military because of what was passed. that will not make our military stronger. we have also now said, and the debate seems to imply, that trans people do not exist so they are not welcome in the military either. now, i am not a doctor and, therefore, do not want to presume what treatment someone should have who is in a transgender situation, but what this bill says is: nope, we are not even going to consider it. again, mr. chair, if you are a trans person, you are going to be less likely to join the military, or, mr. chair, if you are someone who thinks, ``what if i have a child who is a trans person?'' the military is not going to accept them. so, now, mr. chair, you can take trans people off the table. they are not going to join the military either. then, we have the most difficult aspect of this, and that is the diversity, equity, and inclusion piece. this is a very widely misunderstood thing, and i tried to explain it throughout the debate. believe it or not, we have a history of discrimination in this country. we have a history of bigotry. you can go through slavery, jim crow, the ku klux klan, and a whole bunch of different things, mr. chair. we also have a history of incredible discrimination against women. i cited this before, but as it came out during debate, women who join the military, i think, have a very strong understanding that they are going to have to work twice as hard, basically, to get the same opportunities that a man gets in the military. that is sort of understood. because of that historical discrimination, mr. chair, you also have to wonder, if you are a person of color, whether you are going to get a fair shake in the military. now, i will admit there are a lot of people who, even faced with those odds, even knowing that they are going to have to work twice as hard and face that discrimination, will join, but some will not. so, again, there is another group of people who we have now taken off the table. i want to take a special moment to recognize, on that last point, the willingness of people to join the military even if they are facing discrimination. where i live in the seattle-bellevue area, we have a lot of nisei veterans and family of nisei veterans, and it is a particularly compelling story. these are japanese americans who fought and died, in many cases, for our country during world war ii while their family members were unfairly incarcerated back home. i know that there are people who will step up and take on that challenge anyway, but there will be fewer of them. basically, mr. chair, you have this huge group of people now who are going to be less likely to join the military because of what this bill does. i will slightly paraphrase a line from ``a few good men.'' basically, all this bill does is weakens our country. it weakens our ability to respect all the people who should be allowed not just to serve but to serve with an equal chance of advancement. whether you [[page h3597]] are talking about women, whether you are talking about trans people, whether you are talking about people of color, mr. chair, this bill says that we are going to make it more difficult for you to get a fair shake in the military. i do understand the dei argument, but let me just say two things about that as i bring this to a close. first of all, there were a lot of very disturbing arguments made. i think the base renaming commission argument, even though technically it really did not matter, was the most disturbing of all as we, once again, heard all these speeches about how we need to honor our history and honor our heritage. these are the exact same arguments that were made over 100 years ago when this country went through a very concerted effort to make sure that we could establish white supremacy as the law of the land. the very same arguments that erected these monuments and named these bases and gave us the ku klux klan and jim crow were made on the floor of this house. it is shocking that those arguments were made. it is appalling that those arguments carried the day and actually won on all of these amendments and found themselves inserted in the bill. all of that is very concerning. i do understand that there is a different set of arguments and a very respectable set of arguments that says that the way we are attempting to address the historical discrimination of this country is problematic, and that is primarily critical race theory. there are certainly some in this country who have a view of this that our country is nothing but racist and that basically we have heard--i think mike waltz actually read this out in committee, and it is very accurate: there are some who believe that all white people are racist, that if you are a white person, you are by definition an oppressor, and you need to think about that. i have seen that, and i have witnessed that, and it is wrong. in my opinion, it is not the correct way to approach that. how should we handle that? the way we have chosen to handle that is to get rid of diversity, equity, and inclusion completely and totally, and that is the problem. mr. chair, if you wanted to say that we are not going to do that part of it, fine. that is not what we did. to the argument of, ``well, gee, all that does is makes it fair. we should not consider race. we should not consider any of these things in determining excellence,'' the problem is that for 400 years we did, and at the end of that, one particular group of people got all the advantages. the acting chair. the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. smith of washington. mr. chair, i urge opposition to this bill, but i do thank the people for the process that was put in place. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. chairman, i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. chair, i thank our bipartisan hasc staff for their tremendous work. as i talked about yesterday, our committee staff has worked for monthslong hours in a very bipartisan fashion to get us where we are today. i also thank everyone from the office of the legislative counsel, the congressional budget office, the parliamentarian's office, the clerk, the floor staff, the rules committee, and the leadership on both sides of the aisle. i especially thank my friend, ranking member smith, for his hard work and assistance. as a longtime former chairman of this committee, he gets the ebbs and flows of this process and has been a very helpful partner in helping me lead this committee. mr. chairman, this is a good bill. i will address this to my conference: there is absolutely no reason why any republican should vote against the bill. it will enhance the congressional oversight of the dod. it will improve the quality of life for our servicemembers and their families. it will help build the ready, capable, and lethal fighting force we need to deter the chinese communist party and other adversaries. mr. chair, i urge all members to support the bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendments en bloc offered by the gentleman from alabama (mr. rogers). the en bloc amendments were agreed to. announcement by the acting chair the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, proceedings will now resume on those amendments printed in house report 118-142 on which further proceedings were postponed, in the following order: amendment no. 63 by mr. banks of indiana. amendment no. 64 by mr. roy of texas. the chair will reduce to 2 minutes the time for any electronic vote after the first vote in this series. amendment no. 63 offered by mr. banks the acting chair. the unfinished business is the demand for a recorded vote on amendment no. 63, printed in house report 118-142 offered by the gentleman from indiana (mr. banks), on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the ayes prevailed by voice vote. the clerk will redesignate the amendment. the clerk redesignated the amendment. recorded vote the acting chair. a recorded vote has been demanded. a recorded vote was ordered. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 218, noes 210, not voting 11, as follows: [roll no. 325] ayes--218 aderholt alford allen amodei armstrong arrington babin bacon baird balderson banks barr bean (fl) bentz bergman bice biggs bilirakis bishop (nc) boebert bost brecheen buchanan buck bucshon burchett burgess burlison calvert cammack carey carl carter (ga) carter (tx) chavez-deremer ciscomani cline cloud clyde cole collins comer crane crawford crenshaw cuellar curtis d'esposito davidson de la cruz desjarlais diaz-balart donalds duarte duncan dunn (fl) edwards ellzey emmer estes ezell fallon feenstra ferguson finstad fischbach fitzgerald fitzpatrick fleischmann flood foxx franklin, c. scott fry fulcher gaetz gallagher garcia, mike gimenez gonzales, tony good (va) gooden (tx) gosar granger graves (la) graves (mo) green (tn) greene (ga) griffith grothman guest guthrie hageman harris harshbarger hern higgins (la) hill hinson houchin hudson huizenga hunt issa jackson (tx) johnson (la) johnson (oh) johnson (sd) jordan joyce (oh) joyce (pa) kean (nj) kelly (ms) kiggans (va) kiley kim (ca) kustoff lahood lalota lamalfa lamborn langworthy latta laturner lawler lee (fl) lesko letlow loudermilk lucas luetkemeyer luna luttrell mace malliotakis mann massie mast mccaul mcclain mcclintock mccormick mchenry meuser miller (il) miller (oh) miller (wv) miller-meeks mills molinaro moolenaar mooney moore (al) moore (ut) moran moylan murphy nehls newhouse norman nunn (ia) obernolte ogles owens palmer pence perez perry pfluger posey reschenthaler rodgers (wa) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rose rosendale rouzer rutherford salazar santos scalise schweikert scott, austin self sessions simpson smith (ne) smith (nj) smucker spartz stauber steel stefanik steil steube stewart strong tenney thompson (pa) tiffany timmons turner valadao van drew van duyne van orden wagner walberg waltz weber (tx) webster (fl) wenstrup westerman williams (tx) wilson (sc) wittman womack yakym zinke noes--210 adams aguilar allred auchincloss balint barragan beatty bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer blunt rochester bonamici boyle (pa) brown brownley budzinski bush caraveo carbajal cardenas carson carter (la) cartwright casar case casten castor (fl) castro (tx) cherfilus-mccormick chu clark (ma) clarke (ny) cleaver clyburn cohen connolly correa costa courtney craig crockett crow davids (ks) davis (il) davis (nc) dean (pa) degette delauro delbene deluzio desaulnier dingell doggett escobar eshoo espaillat fletcher foster foushee frankel, lois frost [[page h3598]] garamendi garcia (il) garcia (tx) garcia, robert goldman (ny) gomez gonzalez, vicente gottheimer green, al (tx) grijalva harder (ca) hayes higgins (ny) himes horsford houlahan hoyer hoyle (or) huffman ivey jackson (il) jackson (nc) jackson lee jacobs james jayapal jeffries johnson (ga) kamlager-dove kaptur keating kelly (il) khanna kildee kilmer kim (nj) krishnamoorthi kuster landsman larsen (wa) larson (ct) lee (ca) lee (nv) lee (pa) leger fernandez levin lieu lofgren lynch magaziner manning matsui mcbath mcclellan mccollum mcgarvey mcgovern meeks menendez meng mfume moore (wi) morelle moskowitz moulton mrvan mullin nadler napolitano neal neguse nickel norcross norton ocasio-cortez omar pallone panetta pappas pascrell payne pelosi peltola peters pettersen phillips pingree plaskett pocan porter pressley quigley ramirez raskin ross ruiz ruppersberger ryan sablan salinas sanchez sarbanes scanlon schakowsky schiff schneider scholten schrier scott (va) scott, david sewell sherman sherrill slotkin smith (wa) sorensen soto spanberger stansbury stanton stevens strickland swalwell sykes takano thanedar thompson (ca) thompson (ms) titus tlaib tokuda tonko torres (ca) torres (ny) trahan trone underwood vargas vasquez veasey velazquez wasserman schultz waters watson coleman wexton wild williams (ga) wilson (fl) not voting--11 bowman evans gallego garbarino golden (me) gonzalez-colon kelly (pa) radewagen roy smith (mo) williams (ny) {time} 1034 messrs. desaulnier and larson of connecticut changed their vote from ``aye'' to ``no.'' mr. davidson changed his vote from ``no'' to ``aye.'' so the amendment was agreed to. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. stated against: mr. bowman. mr. chair, had i been present, i would have voted ``no'' on rollcall no. 325. amendment no. 64 offered by mr. roy the acting chair. the unfinished business is the demand for a recorded vote on amendment no. 64, printed in house report 118-142 offered by the gentleman from texas (mr. roy), on which further proceedings were postponed and on which the ayes prevailed by voice vote. the clerk will redesignate the amendment. the clerk redesignated the amendment. recorded vote the acting chair. a recorded vote has been demanded. a recorded vote was ordered. the acting chair. this is a 2-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--ayes 217, noes 216, not voting 7, as follows: [roll no. 326] ayes--217 aderholt alford allen amodei armstrong arrington babin bacon baird balderson banks barr bean (fl) bentz bergman bice biggs bilirakis bishop (nc) boebert bost brecheen buchanan buck bucshon burchett burgess burlison calvert cammack carey carl carter (ga) carter (tx) ciscomani cline cloud clyde cole collins comer crane crawford crenshaw curtis d'esposito davidson de la cruz desjarlais diaz-balart donalds duarte duncan dunn (fl) edwards ellzey emmer estes ezell fallon feenstra ferguson finstad fischbach fitzgerald fleischmann flood foxx franklin, c. scott fry fulcher gaetz gallagher garbarino garcia, mike gimenez gonzales, tony good (va) gooden (tx) gosar granger graves (la) graves (mo) green (tn) greene (ga) griffith grothman guest guthrie hageman harris harshbarger hern higgins (la) hill hinson houchin hudson huizenga hunt issa jackson (tx) james johnson (la) johnson (oh) johnson (sd) jordan joyce (oh) joyce (pa) kean (nj) kelly (ms) kiggans (va) kiley kim (ca) kustoff lahood lalota lamalfa lamborn langworthy latta laturner lawler lee (fl) lesko letlow loudermilk lucas luetkemeyer luna luttrell mace malliotakis mann massie mast mccarthy mccaul mcclain mcclintock mccormick mchenry meuser miller (il) miller (oh) miller (wv) miller-meeks mills molinaro moolenaar mooney moore (al) moore (ut) moran moylan murphy nehls newhouse norman obernolte ogles owens palmer pence perry pfluger posey reschenthaler rodgers (wa) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rose rosendale rouzer roy rutherford salazar santos scalise schweikert scott, austin self sessions simpson smith (ne) smith (nj) smucker spartz stauber steel stefanik steil steube stewart strong tenney thompson (pa) tiffany timmons turner valadao van drew van duyne van orden wagner walberg waltz weber (tx) webster (fl) wenstrup westerman williams (tx) wilson (sc) wittman womack yakym zinke noes--216 adams aguilar allred auchincloss balint barragan beatty bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer blunt rochester bonamici bowman boyle (pa) brown brownley budzinski bush caraveo carbajal cardenas carson carter (la) cartwright casar case casten castor (fl) castro (tx) chavez-deremer cherfilus-mccormick chu clark (ma) clarke (ny) cleaver clyburn cohen connolly correa costa courtney craig crockett crow cuellar davids (ks) davis (il) davis (nc) dean (pa) degette delauro delbene deluzio desaulnier dingell doggett escobar eshoo espaillat fitzpatrick fletcher foster foushee frankel, lois frost garamendi garcia (il) garcia (tx) garcia, robert golden (me) goldman (ny) gomez gonzalez, vicente gottheimer green, al (tx) grijalva harder (ca) hayes higgins (ny) himes horsford houlahan hoyer hoyle (or) huffman ivey jackson (il) jackson (nc) jackson lee jacobs jayapal jeffries johnson (ga) kamlager-dove kaptur keating kelly (il) khanna kildee kilmer kim (nj) krishnamoorthi kuster landsman larsen (wa) larson (ct) lee (ca) lee (nv) lee (pa) leger fernandez levin lieu lofgren lynch magaziner manning matsui mcbath mcclellan mccollum mcgarvey mcgovern meeks menendez meng mfume moore (wi) morelle moskowitz moulton mrvan mullin nadler napolitano neal neguse nickel norcross norton nunn (ia) ocasio-cortez omar pallone panetta pappas pascrell payne pelosi peltola perez peters pettersen phillips pingree plaskett pocan porter pressley quigley ramirez raskin ross ruiz ruppersberger ryan sablan salinas sanchez sarbanes scanlon schakowsky schiff schneider scholten schrier scott (va) scott, david sewell sherman sherrill slotkin smith (wa) sorensen soto spanberger stansbury stanton stevens strickland swalwell sykes takano thanedar thompson (ca) thompson (ms) titus tlaib tokuda tonko torres (ca) torres (ny) trahan trone underwood vargas vasquez veasey velazquez wasserman schultz waters watson coleman wexton wild williams (ga) wilson (fl) not voting--7 evans gallego gonzalez-colon kelly (pa) radewagen smith (mo) williams (ny) announcement by the acting chair the acting chair (during the vote). there is 1 minute remaining. {time} 1039 so the amendment was agreed to. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. the acting chair (mr. curtis). there being no further amendments, under the rule, the committee rises. accordingly, the committee rose; and the speaker pro tempore (mr. weber of texas) having assumed the chair, mr. curtis, acting chair of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union, reported that that committee, having had under consideration the bill (h.r. 2670) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2024 for military activities of the department of defense and for military construction, and for defense activities of the department of energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes, and, pursuant to house resolution 583, he reported the bill, as amended by house resolution 582 and by the house on july 13, 2023, back to the house with [[page h3599]] sundry further amendments adopted in the committee of the whole. the speaker pro tempore. under the rule, the previous question is ordered. is a separate vote demanded on any amendment reported from the committee of the whole? if not, the chair will put them en gros. the amendments were agreed to. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the engrossment and third reading of the bill. the bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was read the third time. {time} 1045 motion to recommit ms. houlahan. mr. speaker, i have a motion to recommit at the desk. the speaker pro tempore. the clerk will report the motion to recommit. the clerk read as follows: ms. houlahan of pennsylvania moves to recommit the bill h.r. 2670 to the committee on armed services. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule xix, the previous question is ordered on the motion to recommit. the question is on the motion to recommit. the question was taken; and the speaker pro tempore announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 9 of rule xx, this 5- minute vote on the motion to recommit will be followed by 5-minute votes on: passage of the bill, if ordered; and agreeing to the speaker's approval of the journal, if ordered. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 210, nays 217, not voting 7, as follows: [roll no. 327] yeas--210 adams aguilar allred auchincloss balint barragan beatty bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer blunt rochester bonamici bowman boyle (pa) brown brownley budzinski bush caraveo carbajal cardenas carson carter (la) cartwright casar case casten castor (fl) castro (tx) cherfilus-mccormick chu clark (ma) clarke (ny) cleaver clyburn cohen connolly correa costa courtney craig crockett crow cuellar davids (ks) davis (il) davis (nc) dean (pa) degette delauro delbene deluzio desaulnier dingell doggett escobar eshoo espaillat fletcher foster foushee frankel, lois frost garamendi garcia (il) garcia (tx) garcia, robert golden (me) goldman (ny) gomez gonzalez, vicente gottheimer green, al (tx) grijalva harder (ca) hayes higgins (ny) himes horsford houlahan hoyer hoyle (or) huffman ivey jackson (il) jackson (nc) jackson lee jacobs jayapal jeffries johnson (ga) kamlager-dove kaptur keating kelly (il) khanna kildee kilmer kim (nj) krishnamoorthi kuster landsman larsen (wa) larson (ct) lee (ca) lee (nv) lee (pa) leger fernandez levin lieu lofgren lynch magaziner manning matsui mcbath mcclellan mccollum mcgarvey mcgovern meeks menendez meng mfume moore (wi) morelle moskowitz moulton mrvan mullin nadler napolitano neal neguse nickel norcross ocasio-cortez omar pallone panetta pappas pascrell payne pelosi peltola perez peters pettersen phillips pingree pocan porter pressley quigley ramirez raskin ross ruiz ruppersberger ryan salinas sanchez sarbanes scanlon schakowsky schiff schneider scholten schrier scott (va) scott, david sewell sherman sherrill slotkin smith (wa) sorensen soto spanberger stansbury stanton stevens strickland swalwell sykes takano thanedar thompson (ca) thompson (ms) titus tlaib tokuda tonko torres (ca) torres (ny) trahan trone underwood vargas vasquez veasey velazquez wasserman schultz waters watson coleman wexton wild williams (ga) wilson (fl) nays--217 aderholt alford allen amodei armstrong arrington babin bacon baird balderson banks barr bean (fl) bentz bergman bice biggs bilirakis bishop (nc) boebert bost buchanan buck bucshon burchett burgess burlison calvert cammack carey carl carter (ga) carter (tx) chavez-deremer ciscomani cline cloud clyde cole collins comer crane crawford crenshaw curtis d'esposito davidson de la cruz desjarlais diaz-balart donalds duarte duncan dunn (fl) edwards ellzey emmer estes ezell fallon feenstra ferguson finstad fischbach fitzgerald fitzpatrick fleischmann flood foxx franklin, c. scott fry fulcher gallagher garbarino garcia, mike gimenez gonzales, tony good (va) gooden (tx) gosar granger graves (la) graves (mo) green (tn) greene (ga) griffith grothman guest guthrie hageman harris harshbarger hern higgins (la) hill hinson houchin hudson huizenga hunt issa jackson (tx) james johnson (la) johnson (oh) johnson (sd) jordan joyce (oh) joyce (pa) kean (nj) kelly (ms) kiggans (va) kiley kim (ca) kustoff lahood lalota lamalfa lamborn langworthy latta laturner lawler lee (fl) lesko letlow loudermilk lucas luetkemeyer luna luttrell mace malliotakis mann massie mast mccarthy mccaul mcclain mcclintock mccormick mchenry meuser miller (il) miller (oh) miller (wv) miller-meeks mills molinaro moolenaar mooney moore (al) moore (ut) moran murphy nehls newhouse norman nunn (ia) obernolte ogles owens palmer pence perry pfluger posey reschenthaler rodgers (wa) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rose rosendale rouzer roy rutherford salazar santos scalise schweikert scott, austin self sessions simpson smith (ne) smith (nj) smucker spartz stauber steel stefanik steil steube stewart strong tenney thompson (pa) tiffany timmons turner valadao van drew van duyne van orden wagner walberg waltz weber (tx) webster (fl) wenstrup westerman williams (tx) wilson (sc) wittman womack yakym zinke not voting--7 brecheen evans gaetz gallego kelly (pa) smith (mo) williams (ny) announcement by the speaker pro tempore the speaker pro tempore (during the vote). there are 2 minutes remaining. {time} 1049 mr. nunn of iowa changed his vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.'' so the motion to recommit was rejected. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the passage of the bill. the question was taken; and the speaker pro tempore announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. rogers of alabama. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. this is a 5-minute vote. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 219, nays 210, not voting 5, as follows: [roll no. 328] yeas--219 aderholt alford allen amodei armstrong arrington babin bacon baird balderson banks barr bean (fl) bentz bergman bice bilirakis bishop (nc) boebert bost brecheen buchanan bucshon burchett burgess burlison calvert cammack carey carl carter (ga) carter (tx) chavez-deremer ciscomani cline cloud clyde cole collins comer crawford crenshaw curtis d'esposito davidson davis (nc) de la cruz desjarlais diaz-balart donalds duarte duncan dunn (fl) edwards ellzey emmer estes ezell fallon feenstra ferguson finstad fischbach fitzgerald fitzpatrick fleischmann flood foxx franklin, c. scott fry fulcher gaetz gallagher garbarino garcia, mike gimenez golden (me) gonzales, tony good (va) gooden (tx) gosar granger graves (la) graves (mo) green (tn) greene (ga) griffith grothman guest guthrie hageman harris harshbarger hern higgins (la) hill hinson houchin hudson huizenga hunt issa jackson (tx) james johnson (la) johnson (oh) johnson (sd) jordan joyce (oh) joyce (pa) kean (nj) kelly (ms) kiggans (va) kiley kim (ca) kustoff [[page h3600]] lahood lalota lamalfa lamborn langworthy latta laturner lawler lee (fl) lesko letlow loudermilk lucas luetkemeyer luna luttrell mace malliotakis mann mast mccarthy mccaul mcclain mcclintock mccormick mchenry meuser miller (il) miller (oh) miller (wv) miller-meeks mills molinaro moolenaar mooney moore (al) moore (ut) moran murphy nehls newhouse norman nunn (ia) obernolte ogles owens palmer pence perez perry pfluger posey reschenthaler rodgers (wa) rogers (al) rogers (ky) rose rosendale rouzer roy rutherford salazar santos scalise schweikert scott, austin self sessions simpson smith (ne) smith (nj) smucker spartz stauber steel stefanik steil steube stewart strong tenney thompson (pa) tiffany timmons turner valadao van drew van duyne van orden vasquez wagner walberg waltz weber (tx) webster (fl) wenstrup westerman williams (tx) wilson (sc) wittman womack yakym zinke nays--210 adams aguilar allred auchincloss balint barragan beatty bera beyer biggs bishop (ga) blumenauer blunt rochester bonamici bowman boyle (pa) brown brownley buck budzinski bush caraveo carbajal cardenas carson carter (la) cartwright casar case casten castor (fl) castro (tx) cherfilus-mccormick chu clark (ma) clarke (ny) cleaver clyburn cohen connolly correa costa courtney craig crane crockett crow cuellar davids (ks) davis (il) dean (pa) degette delauro delbene deluzio desaulnier dingell doggett escobar eshoo espaillat fletcher foster foushee frankel, lois frost garamendi garcia (il) garcia (tx) garcia, robert goldman (ny) gomez gonzalez, vicente gottheimer green, al (tx) grijalva harder (ca) hayes higgins (ny) himes horsford houlahan hoyer hoyle (or) huffman ivey jackson (il) jackson (nc) jackson lee jacobs jayapal jeffries johnson (ga) kamlager-dove kaptur keating kelly (il) khanna kildee kilmer kim (nj) krishnamoorthi kuster landsman larsen (wa) larson (ct) lee (ca) lee (nv) lee (pa) leger fernandez levin lieu lofgren lynch magaziner manning massie matsui mcbath mcclellan mccollum mcgarvey mcgovern meeks menendez meng mfume moore (wi) morelle moskowitz moulton mrvan mullin nadler napolitano neal neguse nickel norcross ocasio-cortez omar pallone panetta pappas pascrell payne pelosi peltola peters pettersen phillips pingree pocan porter pressley quigley ramirez raskin ross ruiz ruppersberger ryan salinas sanchez sarbanes scanlon schakowsky schiff schneider scholten schrier scott (va) scott, david sewell sherman sherrill slotkin smith (wa) sorensen soto spanberger stansbury stanton stevens strickland swalwell sykes takano thanedar thompson (ca) thompson (ms) titus tlaib tokuda tonko torres (ca) torres (ny) trahan trone underwood vargas veasey velazquez wasserman schultz waters watson coleman wexton wild williams (ga) wilson (fl) not voting--5 evans gallego kelly (pa) smith (mo) williams (ny) announcement by the speaker pro tempore the speaker pro tempore (during the vote). there are 2 minutes remaining. {time} 1055 so the bill was passed. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. personal explanation mr. smith of missouri. mr. speaker, had i been present, i would have voted: ``yea'' on rollcall no. 325 (banks amendment #63 to h.r. 2670), ``yea'' on rollcall no. 326 (roy amendment #64 to h.r. 2670), ``nay'' on rollcall no. 327 (on the motion to recommit h.r. 2670), and ``yea'' on rollcall no. 328 (final passage of h.r. 2670). ____________________