[congressional record volume 170, number 66 (tuesday, april 16, 2024)] [house] [pages h2406-h2413] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] providing for consideration of h.r. 6323, iran counterterrorism act of 2023; providing for consideration of h. res. 1143, condemning iran's unprecedented drone and missile attack on israel; providing for consideration of h.r. 4691, iran sanctions relief review act of 2023; providing for consideration of h.r. 5947, to provide for the rescission of certain waivers and licenses relating to iran, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of h.r. 6046, standing against houthi aggression act; and providing for consideration of h.r. 4639, fourth amendment is not for sale act mr. reschenthaler. mr. speaker, by direction of the committee on rules, i call up house resolution 1149 and ask for its immediate consideration. the clerk read the resolution, as follows: h. res. 1149 resolved, that upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the house the bill (h.r. 6323) to modify the availability of certain waiver authorities with respect to sanctions imposed with respect to the financial sector of iran, and for other purposes. all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the committee on financial services now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. the bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. all points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on financial services or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit. sec. 2. upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without intervention of any point of order to consider in the house the resolution (h. res. 1143) condemning iran's unprecedented drone and missile attack on israel. the resolution shall be considered as read. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the resolution and preamble to adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the question except one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on foreign affairs or their respective designees. sec. 3. upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the house the bill (h.r. 4691) to provide for congressional review of actions to terminate or waive sanctions imposed with respect to iran. all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of rules committee print 118-30 shall be considered as adopted. the bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. all points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on foreign affairs or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit. sec. 4. upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the house the bill (h.r. 5947) to provide for the rescission of certain waivers and licenses relating to iran, and for other purposes. all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. the bill shall be considered as read. all points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on foreign affairs or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit. sec. 5. upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider in the house the bill (h.r. 6046) to designate ansarallah as a foreign terrorist organization and impose certain sanctions on ansarallah, and for other purposes. all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. in lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the committee on foreign affairs, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of rules committee print 118-29 shall be considered as adopted. the bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. all points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on foreign affairs or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit. sec. 6. at any time after adoption of this resolution the speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule xviii, declare the house resolved into the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for consideration of the bill (h.r. 4639) to amend section 2702 of title 18, united states code, to prevent law enforcement and intelligence agencies from obtaining subscriber or customer records in exchange for anything of value, to address communications and records in the possession of intermediary internet service providers, and for other purposes. the first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. all points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. general debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on the judiciary or their respective designees. after general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of rules committee print 118-28 shall be considered as adopted in the house and in the committee of the whole. the bill, as amended, shall be considered as the original bill for the purpose of further amendment under the five-minute rule and shall be considered as read. all points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. no further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order except those printed in the report of the committee on rules accompanying this resolution. each such further amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the house or in the committee of the whole. all points of order against such further amendments are waived. at the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the house with such further amendments as may have been adopted. the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit. {time} 1215 the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman from pennsylvania is recognized for 1 hour. mr. reschenthaler. for the purpose of debate only, i yield the customary 30 minutes to the gentleman from massachusetts (mr. mcgovern), the ranking member of the rules committee and my good friend, pending which i yield myself such time as i may consume. during consideration of this resolution, all time yielded is for the purpose of debate only. general leave mr. reschenthaler. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all [[page h2407]] members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from pennsylvania? there was no objection. mr. reschenthaler. mr. speaker, i rise in support of this rule and in support of the underlying legislation. house resolution 1149 provides for consideration of six measures: h.r. 6323, h. res. 1143, h.r. 4691, h.r. 5947, h.r. 6046, and h.r. 4639. the rule provides for consideration of h.r. 6323, the iran counterterrorism act of 2023, under a closed rule, with 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on financial services or their respective designees and provides one motion to recommit. additionally, the rule provides for consideration of h. res. 1143, a resolution condemning iran's unprecedented attack on israel, under a closed rule with 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on foreign affairs or their respective designees. further, the rule provides for consideration of h.r. 4691, the iran sanctions relief review act of 2023, under a closed rule with 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on foreign affairs or their respective designees and provides one motion to recommit. the rule also provides for consideration of h.r. 5947, which provides for the rescission of certain waivers and licenses relating to iran, under a closed rule with 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on foreign affairs or their respective designees and provides for one motion to recommit. the rule provides for consideration of h.r. 6046, the standing against houthi aggression act, under a closed rule with 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on foreign affairs or their respective designees and provides one motion to recommit. finally, mr. speaker, the rule provides for consideration of h.r. 4639, the fourth amendment is not for sale act, under a structured rule with 1 hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on the judiciary or their respective designees and provides one motion to recommit. the rule makes in order three amendments. mr. speaker, president joe biden's foreign policy decisions have been a complete disaster on the world stage and have emboldened our adversaries and empowered foreign terrorist organizations. sadly, we were forewarned about all of this. former president obama's defense secretary, robert gates, stated nearly a decade ago regarding president biden: ``i think he has been wrong on nearly every major foreign policy and national security issue over the past four decades.'' he is right. let us look at the facts. in the first year alone, the president green-lit nord stream 2 to provide russian gas to europe while simultaneously blocking the keystone xl pipeline here at home. he issued 94 executive orders on immigration, which has led to an unprecedented invasion at our southern border. to appease his far-left radical base, he delisted the houthis as a foreign terrorist organization, which directly led to this conflict in the red sea. he is responsible for the complete surrender of afghanistan, which killed 13 american servicemembers, stranded thousands of americans, returned the taliban to power, and expanded isis-k and al-qaida. in 2022, his policies of appeasement led to the largest invasion of europe since world war ii. to help his party in the mid-terms, he depleted the strategic petroleum reserve to its lowest levels since i was born, 1983, and he sent millions of barrels of oil to communist china. in the first days of 2023, he allowed a chinese spy balloon to cross the entire country, which collected intelligence on innocent americans. on the 22nd anniversary of 9/11, on the very anniversary, in an insult to the people who suffered those terrorist attacks, joe biden unfroze $6 billion in oil sanctions to iran just days before an iranian proxy group killed over a thousand people in israel. how does iran thank us? our troops in the middle east faced over 100 attacks from proxy networks, which led to the death of three servicemembers in jordan. just this year, biden waived billions of dollars in sanctions to allow iranian energy exports into iraq--and i kid you not--while also announcing an indefinite pause to new approvals of u.s. liquefied natural gas exports from here. guess who benefits from that? it is not the united states. it is not the american worker. it is russia, china, and iran who benefit from joe biden's reckless foreign policy. this administration's policies truly embody the slogan: america last. that is why house republicans are bringing to the floor this week legislation to condemn iran's recent attack on israel, block biden's ransom payments to iran, redesignate the houthis as a foreign terrorist organization, and apply maximum pressure on the iranian regime. we cannot stand idly by as the biden administration hands over the keys to the ayatollah; the dictator in communist china, chairman xi; and the dictator vladimir putin. this week's votes will be very clear: do you stand with our ally and strategic partner israel, or do you stand with the authoritarian regime in tehran? mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this rule, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman from pennsylvania for yielding me the customary 30 minutes, and i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i join the gentleman from pennsylvania in condemning iran's attack on israel, and i also express my growing concern at this situation. i hope that president biden continues working to de-escalate tensions. i do not think that any of us want this to turn into a broader conflict that puts even more civilians at risk. mr. speaker, i also thank president biden because, as commander in chief, he ordered our military to shoot down more than 70 drones and 3 ballistic missiles that iran launched. because of his actions and his work to unite our allies in the region, israeli airspace was defended, and 99 percent of the projectiles fired by iran were intercepted. that is real. that is concrete. that is tangible. listening to my friends on the other side. i think they blame joe biden for everything. i mean, they blame him for iran's attack more than they blame iran. i think they have people on their side who blame joe biden for the earthquake, and i think one of my friends on the other side of the aisle blamed joe biden for the eclipse. this is crazy. at some point they need to stop playing the blame game and work with democrats to address these global challenges in a thoughtful and bipartisan way. instead of doing that, instead of bringing everybody together, what we have from republicans is a fake response to a real crisis. the majority dusted off a bunch of old bills, some of which have never had a hearing and have never been marked up by committee, and they are bringing them to the floor. i guess they decided the original schedule for the week would have looked bad because they originally planned to bring up bills dealing with household appliances. you heard that right, mr. speaker. with all the crises going on in the world, the majority's plan this week was to bring up a bill about refrigerator freedom. not just one bill or two bills; they had a whole week, six bills, dedicated to appliances. they wanted us to debate the liberty in laundry act this week. it took an actual international emergency to get them to notice how out of touch and absurd their policy agenda is. meanwhile, democrats have been saying for months and months that we need republicans to get serious about helping our allies, and for months we have heard excuse after excuse from republicans. first, they said we had to wait until h.r. 2, their extreme maga border bill, became law. then they changed their tune because they tanked their [[page h2408]] own border bill. next, they told us to wait until the federal government was fully funded. we did that, and the maga caucus moved the goalposts yet again. then democrats were told aid for ukraine had to wait until the house reauthorized fisa. guess what, mr. speaker? republicans are out of excuses and our allies are out of time. speaker johnson's inaction has consequences. he has emboldened our adversaries and left our allies wondering: where is america? i hear reports that he is in backroom discussions with members to find a way forward on ukraine funding, and i hope that we see the aid our allies need on the floor this week and that there is no partisan b.s. attached to it. what our allies need right now are not more empty, do-nothing exercises and political messaging like we are doing today. they need our help immediately. these bills we are debating do not meet this moment at all. the very first thing we should have done this week is come back and debate a bipartisan bill that can provide real, tangible help to our allies. instead, we get more wasted time, more broken promises, more useless rhetoric from this republican majority. has anyone even asked the senate if these bills are going anywhere over there, mr. speaker? they passed the sanctions bill on iran 6 months ago and have not sent it to the senate yet. are they going to send any of these bills to the senate or is this all for show, so they can send out a press release to say they did something? meanwhile, the world is wondering when america will get our act together and when this republican majority is going to get their act together, stop playing politics, and start doing their job. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. reschenthaler. mr. speaker, in recent days, far-left activists have chanted ``death to america'' and ``death to israel.'' in chicago, cheers broke out over the weekend when iran started attacking israel during a meeting about the upcoming dnc convention. just think about that for a moment. this is not your grandfather's democratic party. in the 3 months following the october 7 attack, there has been an increase of 360 percent in anti-semitic incidents in this country. it was reported earlier this year that there was an exodus of jewish families leaving oakland, california, because of the anti-semitic radicalization of the teachers union in that city. this is not 1930s nazi germany. this is 21st century california where we are seeing this happen. if you doubt me, just listen to the leaders of the democratic party. here is representative rashida tlaib, who said: ``from the river to the sea is an aspirational call for freedom, human rights, and peaceful coexistence, not death, destruction, or hate.'' this is an absolute lie. ``from the river to the sea'' is a call for genocide of the jewish people and the destruction of the state of israel. there is representative tlaib condoning a call for genocide. let us not forget about representative ilhan omar, who said: ``we have seen unthinkable atrocities committed by the u.s., hamas, israel, afghanistan, and the taliban.'' equating the united states, the u.s. military, and the israeli defense forces to terrorist organizations is not only disgusting, it is absolutely disgraceful. she also said: ``israel has hypnotized the world,'' alluding to an anti-semitic trope that we have seen for absolutely centuries. now, here is representative jayapal, as well, who said: ``well, we condemn hamas' firing of those rockets, but i think you have to look at what prompted even that behavior.'' it is very clear, far-left activists look to their leaders for direction. the democratic thought leaders in that party sympathize with terrorists. i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from texas (mr. burgess), my good friend and the chairman of the rules committee. {time} 1230 mr. burgess. mr. speaker, i thank my friend for yielding. i rise today in support of this very important rule. specifically, i rise in support of israel following the attack on israel by iran this past weekend. this direct attack on israel is unprecedented. it does mark the first time that iran has directly attacked israel from iranian soil. in total, more than 300 drones were launched toward israel, severely injuring a 7-year-old girl and damaging a military base. while the united states worked with longstanding allies to help assist in the interception of these missiles and drones, it is clear that the stability of the region is only as strong as the israeli- united states partnership. understanding this and the gravity of iran's attack, republicans have put forth legislation this week to condemn the attack and reaffirm our support for israel. be assured, mr. speaker, israel does have a right to self-defense. this rule and the underlying legislation in the rule reaffirms the united states' commitment to israel's security, it designates the houthis as a foreign terrorist organization, and it holds iran accountable for their support of proxy wars and terrorism in the region. mr. speaker, it is important that the united states take up these measures and ensure the safety of israel and the safety of the united states. undeniably, iran should be held accountable for this attack. this legislation seeks to do just that. mr. speaker, i urge passage of the rule from my colleagues. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. let me just say i have never heard so much b.s. in my life, to be honest with you. let me just remind my colleagues that donald trump, the guy they apologize for constantly, is the one who let iran attack u.s. troops. donald trump is the one who allowed not one but dozens of chinese spy balloons to fly overhead without telling us. donald trump is the one who gave classified israeli intelligence to the russians, intelligence they could have given to iran. donald trump is the one who went to north korea--remember that--and tried to get a brutal dictator to love him. he said, hey, kim jong-un and i are in love. donald trump is the one who tried to extort ukraine by withholding our aid, and he was impeached over it. donald trump praises putin, he fawns over xi jinping and victor orban, and he sends kim jong-un love letters. it is pathetic. it is pathetic. donald trump is the one who praised an angry mob who attacked the united states capitol and injured people. that is all good for my friends on the other side. at every step of the way, trump stood with america's adversaries and those who oppose democracy. i am sorry that is an inconvenient truth for my republican friends, but it is the truth. contrast that with joe biden. joe biden rallied the world to ukraine's defense. he defended our ally israel in their air space, and he has rebuilt our image on the world stage and has stood up for democracy. my friends on the other side said nothing when the previous president was apologizing and praising every tin horn dictator in the world who had no regard for human rights. democrats are the party of democracy. republicans can use whatever rhetoric they want about the far-left this and the far-left that. their party has been radicalized by maga extremists. here we are at this late date debating legislation that is going nowhere when, in fact, our allies, specifically ukraine, is out of money and out of equipment to defend themselves against russia, and my friends just sit there and twiddle their thumbs. this is pathetic. this is pathetic. i urge my colleagues to understand what is going on here. we are doing this exercise that is going nowhere. i do not know who it is designed to please--maybe to show that we are doing work when we are not doing work. we actually passed a bill on iran--6 months ago to be exact--that is still here. they never even sent it over to the senate. this is all for show. meanwhile, we have a real crisis on our hands. i hope my friends will get serious. let us waste this time doing these bills that are problematic and that are [[page h2409]] going nowhere, but do not come and lecture us about democracy or about protecting israel, about protecting democracy in ukraine. it is because of house republicans that the world right now is on the brink, and i hope that hopefully in the next couple of days you come to your senses and allow us to provide relief to our ally ukraine. i hope that we do that because if not, it will be too late. you have waited so long, constantly giving in to the most extreme rightwing elements of your party, people who have nothing but contempt for ukraine, for democratic movements who could not give damn about human rights. it is pathetic that at this late date we are here doing this and not doing what we should have done a long time ago--and that is provide ukraine the assistance it needs to push back on russia. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the chair reminds members to refrain from engaging in personalities toward presumptive nominees for the office of president. mr. reschenthaler. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. you know, there is a lot of emotion coming from the other side of the aisle, but as a really good friend has told me before, facts do not care about your feelings. if you look at the facts it is pretty clear the difference between the democrats, obama and biden, and president trump. let us just look at russia. it is not a coincidence that vladimir putin moved into crimea and parts of georgia when president obama was in office, and then for the 4 years president trump was in office, there were zero military incursions. then as soon as joe biden took office, he moves into ukraine. actions speak louder than words. again, those facts do not care about your feelings. let us look at ukraine. you want to talk about conditioning aid? joe biden conditioned lethal aid on ukraine, forcing the ukrainians to fire a prosecutor that was investigating a corrupt oil and gas company that hunter biden just happened to be on the board of. i will let you draw your own conclusions on that, but it is very clear that joe biden actually did what president trump was wrongfully impeached for, and then he actually bragged about it on tv. he also had many missteps. remember at the beginning of the lead-up to the war, joe biden said that we would tolerate a ``minor incursion'' in ukrainian territory, just whetting the appetite of vladimir putin. then when the russians did invade, and joe biden slow-walked lethal aid. where were the migs that were sent? why did not we get the ukrainians antiaircraft air batteries? why did not we jam the electronic abilities of the russians to make sure that they did not have air superiority? the ukrainians still do not have the lethal aid because joe biden and his far-left radical administration slow-walked the aid from the beginning of this war. it has been an absolute disaster because of joe biden's incompetence and the incompetence of those he surrounds himself with. i find it very rich to then attack president trump's record on israel. who was the first u.s. president to move the embassy from tel aviv to jerusalem? it was donald trump, making him the most pro-israeli president we have ever had. who was it that had the abraham accords? it was not joe biden. that was president trump who had the abraham accords. if he was a democrat, he would have won two nobel peace prizes for that. let us not forget about joe biden, who still up to today, is calling for a ceasefire when our number one ally in the world, israel, is fighting for its life against a terrorist organization in hamas. the people across the aisle and people in the white house are calling for a ceasefire on that. i think that is absolutely unacceptable. for all the talk about supporting our fellow democracies, let me remind you that there is one thriving democratic state in the middle east. there is only one democracy in the middle east, and that is israel. it would be nice if my friends across the aisle would support that democracy. mr. speaker, i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from new york (mr. langworthy), my good friend. the speaker pro tempore. members are reminded to refrain from engaging in personalities toward the president. mr. langworthy. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman from pennsylvania for yielding the time today. i rise today in support of the underlying legislation to put a stop to the biden administration's policies of appeasement and stand firmly with our friend and ally, the great state of israel. on october 7, 2023, hamas--bankrolled by the iranian regime with funds that could have been spent on food or medicine or other humanitarian needs of the iranian people--murdered and kidnapped children, they raped women, and they brutalized the elderly. it was barbarism that the world had not seen in years. the evil we saw on display on october 7 was done at the behest of and with the resources provided by iran's fundamentalist leaders. these are the very same leaders that call for death to americans, israelis, and the extermination of the jewish state and jews everywhere. i want to remind everyone here today that we are still american, and we still have american and israeli hostages in gaza. they are still being held by a terror group whose lifeline has been and continues to be iran. mr. speaker, the true cost of the biden administration's failed policies of appeasing this terrorist state is on full display. just this weekend, iran launched a full-scale military assault on our ally with 330 drones, low-flying cruise missiles, and ballistic missiles. the time for appeasement has long since passed. let me remind everyone that president biden continued to allow iran to access $10 billion even after they funded the horrific attacks on october 7. it is ridiculous and frankly disgusting that any of my colleagues would continue to advocate and to serve as apologists for state sponsors of terrorism. in the face of so much aggression in the region, i am relieved to see that israel, with the help of the united states, the united kingdom, and so many other allies, were able to minimize the damage from iran's recent attacks. we would not be at this point if it had not been for president biden's relaxing of sanctions and disgraceful attempts at appeasement in a vain attempt to resurrect the failed obama-era nuclear agreement, an agreement that did nothing but empower iran and its proxies in the region. once again, mr. speaker, i am here today on the house floor calling for this administration and my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to stop pretending that we can negotiate or appease a regime that wishes genocide on the jewish people and the destruction of the state of israel. i strongly support the underlying legislation to put a check on this administration's reckless policies toward iran that have jeopardized the safety of the american people and the survival of our friend and ally, the state of israel, as they fight to defend themselves. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. oh, my goodness, mr. speaker, listen to the gentleman from new york (mr. langworthy). he got up, and he blamed the president of the united states more for iran's attack on israel than he blamed the supreme leader of iran. it is pathetic. it is pathetic. i say to the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. reschenthaler), yes, we are emotional when we talk about this stuff. we are emotional when we talk about this stuff because the bottom line is people are dying, and we have members on the other side of the aisle who continue to use putin's talking points in defending why we are not giving aid to ukraine. that is not me saying that. that is the republican chairman of the foreign affairs committee. so, i mean, this is a really important moment here, whether we are going to stand with our friends in ukraine, whether we are going to help them stand up to russia, or whether following the example of trump we are going to turn a blind eye. i mean, putin is hoping that maybe trump wins and the republicans win because then he knows he can take over ukraine. [[page h2410]] yes, we are emotional because people are dying. russia has launched a vicious war against ukraine, and we are emotional when we talk about not only protecting israel but protecting innocent people in gaza as well because we actually think human rights matter. human rights knows no political party, knows no country's boundaries. everyone's human rights ought to be upheld. we are emotional because we are sick and tired of the rhetoric coming from my republican friends. we are sick and tired of them apologizing for putin all the time or turning a blind eye on human rights abuses in the middle east or anywhere else in the world. coming to the floor with bills that my friends know are going nowhere--i mean, we have done similar bills before that are still being held at the desk and have not been sent to the senate. this is all about show business. enough. enough. we have an opportunity to come together, put politics aside, and do the right thing. i hope my friends will join us in that effort. mr. speaker, i yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman from new mexico (ms. leger fernandez), a distinguished member of the rules committee. {time} 1245 ms. leger fernandez. mr. speaker, i thank the ranking member for pointing out the importance of the moment we are in and the fact that there are people dying. there are children dying of hunger. how is it that we do not cry for that, and that we do not cry for solutions? mr. speaker, i, like all of my colleagues here today, strongly condemn iran's heinous and unprecedented drone and missile attack on israel over the weekend. we should all be proud of how president biden, the united states military, and our allies struck down hundreds of drones to minimize the casualties and the damage from the attack. this is the mark of a strong president, bringing our allies together to combat the threat to democracies around the world. the united states should lead because we are the strongest when we lead coalitions of democratic nations. when the republican majority scrapped this week's meaningless agenda of protecting the freedom of refrigerators, we thought this would be the moment when the republican house leadership would finally rise to the challenge of funding the fight against tyranny. this rule, however, is a disappointment. it is incremental bills with titles condemning iran, but the bills themselves, where it counts, the text of the legislation, does little. lots of talk in the title but no real solutions in the bills. it is especially sad because we have a bipartisan bill that would provide the bullets that ukraine needs to defeat russia, that would provide the humanitarian assistance that the starving children in gaza need to stay alive, that would provide more assistance to israel, and that would combat china's increased aggression in the indo-pacific. i know the vast majority of my republican colleagues want to do the right thing for ukraine, but when extreme putin-protecting republicans fail to curb russia's aggression, they support iran. we cannot see these global threats in isolation. iran's attack on israel is tied to the efforts of russia, iran, and china to reassert themselves against the west, against america, and against democracy. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent to include in the record the march 2024 breaking defense article titled: ``'extremely concerned': american generals raise alarm over iran's tightening ties with russia, china.'' the speaker pro tempore (mr. desjarlais). is there objection to the request of the gentlewoman from new mexico? there was no objection. [from breaking defense, march 22, 2024] extremely concerned: american generals raise alarm over iran's tightening ties with russia, china (by agnes helou) beirut.--as wars rage in gaza and ukraine, senior us military officials sounded the alarm to lawmakers about the renewed relationships between china, russia and iran in both the middle east and africa, suggesting alliances of geopolitical convenience intertwining the three could threaten america's position in both regions. ``i am very concerned about this renewed relationship between russia, china and iran,'' us central command head gen. michael kurilla told a house armed services hearing thursday. ``what we are seeing is iran is reliant on china and russia is reliant on iran.'' kurilla explained that china buys ``90 percent'' of iran's oil, which is sanctioned by the u.s. in return, china uses iran's influence as part of an effort to ``replace the us as one of the dominant forces in the middle east.'' ``so in effect, china is funding iran's subversive and malign behavior in the region,'' he said. iran, meanwhile, has provided thousands of one-way attack drones to russia for its war in ukraine and now has even ``built a factory in russia'' to produce more locally, kurilla said. the general said he could not discuss in an open setting what russia is providing iran for this help, but said that it was ``concerning.'' in his testimony kurilla did not get complete the triangle, but us officials contend that china has provided at least non-lethal aid to russia since moscow's invasion of ukraine in february 2022, and just prior to the invasion russia's vladimir putin and china's xi jinping announced a ``no limits'' partnership. earlier this month, iran conducted maritime exercise with russia and china, dubbed as maritime security belt. the exercise reportedly took place in the north indian ocean and the sea of oman. similarly us africa command chief gen. michael langley said the us also should be worried about russian and chinese increased footprint in africa. ``we should be extremely concerned because i would say that both are very, very much exploitative when possible, but they are also coercive when necessary,'' he said. ``they are trying to get what they want. they are trying to replace the west and, moreover, the united states in our access and influence across this crucial continent.'' langley said beijing and moscow are offering ``shiny objects'' to ``our african partners.'' the us counters those temptations, he said, with a ``hole government approach with usaid and the state department'' as well as the military there. back in the middle east, kurilla said the region ``faces its most volatile security situation in the past half century'' in the wake of hamas's october 7 attack on israel, israel's massive, deadly counter-attack and the months-long campaign of yemen-based houthis to strike at commercial shipping targets in the red sea. ``the events of [october 7] not only permanently changed israel and gaza. they created the conditions for malign actors to sow instability throughout the region and beyond,'' kurilla said. he added that iran, which backs hamas and the houthis as well as hezbollah in lebanon, has exploited ``what they saw as a once-in-a-generation opportunity to reshape the middle east to their advantage. ``iran has worked for decades to encircle the region with its proxies. and in the past six months, we have seen every proxy and the iranian threat network operationalized in iraq, syria, lebanon, gaza, the west bank, and yemen,'' he said. ``iran's expansive network of proxies is equipped with advanced sophisticated weaponry, and threaten some of the most vital trade in the world with global and us implications.'' kurilla stressed that iran knows that its ``decade-long vision cannot be realized if countries in the region continue to expand integration with each other and deepen their partnership with united states.'' he said that american ``partners'' in the region ``are committed to advancing the region, and the united states remains their partner of choice for now.'' the us leads two operations in the red sea: the defensive operation prosperity guardian, meant to protect ships from incoming houthi missiles and drones, and operation poseidon archer, an offensive series of strikes undertaken along with the uk on houthi targets in yemen. kurilla said a third effort is aimed at interdicting iran's supply of arms to the houthis. prosperity guardian's international membership has fluctuated since its launch in december, but kurilla said thursday it currently has 24 partners, 17 of which were ``public.'' but it is iran that is the source of much of the problem, kurilla said. ``iran must be compelled to cease their malign behavior and their actions of directing and supplying funding and training these proxies,'' he said. ``we want to deny [the houthi's] ability to be resupplied. that will take a whole tougher and actually international effort much like we did with counter piracy, to be able to go after that because only two ships can resupply the vast majority of the equipment that we have destroyed so far of the houthis. ``we have to stop that we have to increase the international effort to be able to do the inspections on the vessels that are going into hodeidah [port in yemen],'' he said. ``we need to isolate the houthis in the information environment, we have to impose costs on iran. so there is consequences to their behavior.'' ms. leger fernandez. mr. speaker, in the article, the u.s. central command head, general michael [[page h2411]] kurilla, says: ``i am very concerned about this renewed relationship between russia, china, and iran. what we are seeing is iran is reliant on china and russia is reliant on iran.'' we cannot waste another day of precious floor time instead of getting directly to passing the bipartisan security bill that would actually hurt iran. the senate sent us the security bill 63 days ago. twenty-two senate republicans voted for that bill. that is as bipartisan as you will ever get in the senate. instead, we are in a holding pattern, waiting for republicans to publicly share the text of bills they promise will provide humanitarian assistance and support ukraine, the indo-pacific, and israel. why should we be waiting? the senate bill has been available for review by every office for 63 days. mr. speaker, i urge my republican colleagues to put real solutions up for a vote, and i urge all of my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this rule. mr. reschenthaler. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i guess i should congratulate my friends from across the aisle for finally realizing there is a link between russia, china, and iran. this has been u.s. foreign policy since at least the early 2000s, but better late than never, i guess. i am taken aback by the fact that there is an allegation that joe biden is a strong president because he shot down the drones that iran sent into israel. if the president was strong, drones would not have been sent to israel in the first place. again, let us not forget that under president trump, russia was not attacking ukraine and iran was not attacking israel. it is the president's weakness and his policies of incompetence and american weakness that have invited this aggression. for the talk about ukraine, we on this side of the aisle have intellectual honesty and consistency on this because you can be for defeating russia and also for israel defeating hamas. you can also be for holding iran in check. it is weird that the same people on the other side of the aisle who say if you talk about a peace settlement between russia and ukraine, that we are somehow using russian talking points. those same people will be the same ones who say we need to have a cease-fire in gaza before the idf is afforded their god-given right to destroy their enemy, hamas. it sounds to me like the talking points of hamas, but i will let others draw their own conclusion on that. talking about more failures in the biden administration, let us talk about the southern border and about how many terrorists have crossed that southern border. since president biden took office, there have been over 340 encounters at the southern border from individuals who are actually on the terrorist watch list. just this month, news broke that a terrorist from afghanistan, whose organization is responsible for the deaths of numerous americans, was released twice--not once, but twice--into the interior of the united states after crossing our southern border. he then roamed around unrestricted for almost a year before he was captured. then earlier this year, a member of al-shabaab, which is an al-qaida affiliate in somalia, one of their members was able to live in the u.s. freely for almost a year, as well. it is absolutely crystal clear: biden and radical, extreme leftist democrats cannot be trusted to protect our communities and secure the southern border. the numbers speak for themselves. mr. speaker, talking about incompetence, let us go back and talk about the surrender of afghanistan. remember, under president trump, there were zero fatalities for the last 18 months before joe biden took office. yet, the president, joe biden, felt the need to surrender afghanistan to the taliban. in 2021, the u.s. withdrawal from afghanistan was absolutely the worst military blunder in my lifetime. the biden administration abandoned the bagram air base and released terrorist fighters from prison, including one that killed 13 servicemembers at abbey gate. it has led to a rise in al-qaida and isis-k. the centcom commander testified just last month that isis-k will have the capability within 6 months to do external operations against the west. we know through our oig reports that president biden and his failed bureaucrats in the state department are funding the taliban and al- qaida through international assistance, but it did not impact just the middle east. this has also emboldened china, russia, and iran, the three countries that democrats apparently just discovered there is a connection between in their anti-western positions. reports indicate that the withdrawal helped putin justify his invasion of ukraine. it is just another blunder in a long list of biden foreign policy failures. mr. speaker, i yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from florida (mr. rutherford), my good friend and a sheriff. mr. rutherford. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman for yielding. it is good to stand with him on this very important topic. mr. speaker, i have to tell you, i rise today in strong opposition to h.r. 4639, which is the fourth amendment is not for sale act included in the rule before us today. i have to tell you, i am standing shoulder to shoulder here. although you do not see them, every major law enforcement agency in this country is standing with me in this opposition. the fraternal order of police, major county sheriffs of america, major cities chiefs association, national association of police organizations, national sheriffs' association, and the list goes on. i am disappointed to say that the fourth amendment is not for sale act truly is one of the most antipolice bills i have seen since i have been in congress. no one's fourth amendment rights are being bought. no one's fourth amendment rights are being sold. no one's fourth amendment rights are being violated. this bill will simply block law enforcement from accessing open- source, commercially available, lawfully collected data that can help them solve crimes. it can help them develop probable cause. google and facebook can access this data. the chinese can access this data. cartels and criminals can access this data. but we are not going to let the police access this data. now, my advocates will say: private citizens and foreign adversaries cannot put you in jail. well, that may be true. some of them can actually do worse to you. here is the thing that we need to remember: no one can put you in jail without probable cause of committing a crime. this is open-source data. only law enforcement will be blocked from collecting and accessing this data. the bottom line is, the fourth amendment is not for sale act will make communities far less safe, mr. speaker. i adamantly oppose this bill. i will still vote ``yes'' on the rule because i believe in our process of regular order that gives members the opportunity to hear both sides, debate, offer amendments, and, ultimately, vote a bill up or down. i am absolutely good with that. lately, some of my colleagues claim that they want regular order, yet they vote against regular order time and time again when they join with the democrats to take down a rule. seven times, i think, since i have been in congress we have seen these rules go down. it is their way or the highway, and that is sad. we promised the american people we would do better. voting down a rule is not doing better. mr. speaker, let us pass this rule. let us pass the bills included in this rule that will punish iranian aggression toward our ally israel. then, let us defeat the fourth amendment is not for sale act, which is only going to make our communities less safe. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i think i have heard everything. the gentleman from florida just talked about regular order, saying to vote for this rule because it represents regular order. i mean, he and i have a different opinion of what regular order is. there are six bills. five of them are completely closed rules. is that regular order? [[page h2412]] two of these bills that are closed never went through committee or never had a markup in committee. is that regular order? boy, i need to send the gentleman a textbook on what regular order is. this is not what it is. the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. reschenthaler) is giving us lectures about biden and leadership. i should remind the gentleman that the republicans are on their second speaker of this congress right now. if reports are to be believed that were in the newspapers this morning, you have republicans wanting to get rid of this speaker and go on to a third speaker. i mean, please, oh my goodness, lecturing us on leadership? you are upset that joe biden used the u.s. military to help intercept iranian missiles into israel. you say that is a lack of leadership by president biden. on the contrary, that is leadership. it is protecting our ally from missiles from an adversary. when donald trump was president and 109 u.s. troops suffered brain injuries in a strike by iran, what was the leadership that the former president demonstrated? he did nothing, no response. iran just did it, and he did nothing. he downplayed it like it was no big deal. i am sorry, we have a different opinion of what leadership is all about. the fact of the matter is that we are looking for some leadership on the other side of the aisle to support ukraine in their fight against russia. i mean, the senate acted a long time ago, and my republican friends continue to do nothing but sit back and scream about joe biden and cover up all of donald trump's misdeeds and ignore all of his weaknesses. meanwhile, ukraine is literally at the edge right now. i mean, this is a strange way of defining leadership. do you want to show some leadership? let us help our ally ukraine. let us stop russia in its tracks rather than giving comfort to vladimir putin. {time} 1300 now, i know when the former president was in office, he had a lot of nice words to say about vladimir putin, praised him as this great friend and this great leader. then again, the former president also said he and kim jong-un, one of the most notorious dictators in the world, were in love. how pathetic. how disgusting. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. members are reminded to direct their remarks to the chair. mr. reschenthaler. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from ohio (mr. davidson), my good friend and the author of the fourth amendment is not for sale act. mr. davidson. mr. speaker, i encourage all of my colleagues to support this bill. we all swore an oath to support and defend the constitution. the fourth amendment does not say that if you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear. it says as an american, you have a reasonable expectation of privacy. it goes on to say that you can have that privacy infringed upon if there is a probable cause warrant or a subpoena issued. what our agencies are doing, though, is they are buying data around that to avoid having to even get a warrant or subpoena in the first place. the fourth amendment is not for sale act protects private information. public information is not prohibited in any way. whether you pay somebody to do the search for you or you do it yourself, public information is like the plain view doctrine. there is no limitation on that. mr. higgins is clarifying that. clay higgins, one of our colleagues, has served as a lifetime law enforcement officer. the judiciary committee, where numerous law enforcement officers serve, could not possibly be more pro-law enforcement because they have done the career themselves, and they have supported this bill out of committee. to clarify that this bill is for law enforcement, mr. higgins has offered an amendment to say what the intent of the bill is. automated license plate readers are there. that information has already been disclosed to the government. you know you have disclosed it. the license plate is designed to be a plain-view item in public. nothing about this should make policing harder, except that as ketanji brown jackson, a justice on the united states supreme court, said: the first amendment is getting in the way. of what? filtering speech. if you think that the fourth amendment is getting in the way of enforcing the law, it is designed to. it is supposed to be a limitation on the ability of government to go after citizens because the government is entrusted with great powers. mr. speaker, this rule is an important process to getting a vote on the bill. i thank the leadership team for putting it on the floor today. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time for closing. mr. speaker, not one, not one of the bills under this rule, would prevent iran from carrying on future attacks, not a single one. what are we doing here? the answer is simple. republican leadership cannot organize their clown show of a conference. maga members are playing politics with a global crisis, blaming joe biden instead of iran, and to top it all off, many of them continue siding with putin, an ally of iran, in his war of aggression against ukraine. the people of ukraine have been bombarded by iranian drones for months and months and months, and republicans have refused to do anything about it, not a single thing. republicans had an emergency rules committee meeting. they scrapped their whole agenda this week to debate these useless bills that we are talking about right now. there has been nothing for months and months while the people of ukraine beg for our help, nothing. in fact, not only has this republican majority done nothing, they have members who echo putin's propaganda and mimic kremlin talking points. you cannot make this stuff up. what do our allies see when they look at us now? when the speaker even mentions potential action to support our allies, extreme maga republicans threaten to remove the speaker and shut down congress again. mr. speaker, is this the message we want to send our allies when they need us most? this is shameful. we are at a turning point right now, an inflection point in human history. are iran, russia, and their allies going to write the next chapter of the story, or are people around the world going to stand up and say democracy is worth fighting for? is america going to fulfill our obligations and lead the free world as we have always done and as democrats want to do, or are we not? we cannot only do it sometimes or when it is politically convenient for one party or the other. we need to do it all the time. we need to do it in ukraine, where people are fighting and dying for their freedom and begging us for support. it is beyond time we pass something real to help them. the bills that we are talking about right now are messaging bills. we do not even know whether, if they pass, they will even be sent to the senate because we have passed bills on iran before, and they are still being held up by the house. we have not sent them to the united states senate. i think people are sick and tired of my republican friends going through the motions or making believe like they care about human rights or making believe that they care about ending the conflict in israel or ending the fighting in ukraine. i think people see through what my republican friends are doing. they come to the floor and yell and scream and blame biden for every single thing, yet they continue to do nothing. this is the last week before we have another break, and it remains to be seen whether or not there will be a package that comes to the floor that will actually help ukraine stand up against russia. i get it. there are a lot of republicans who apologize for putin and apologize for russia; think russia can do no wrong. the former president, in all of his meetings with vladimir putin, praised him and praised him and praised him and said they are really good friends. he does not really want us to help ukraine at all and is imposing all of these new conditions. we are running out of time. we either do something now or it is too late. what a tragedy to basically hand [[page h2413]] ukraine over to vladimir putin, as if that is where he will stop. this is about human rights. this is about doing what is right. this is about standing up for the principles that this country is supposed to be all about. i just hope we do it. i say to my colleagues: vote ``no'' on this rule. we are wasting the time of this congress. what we need to do is do something concrete before the end of the week to help ukraine. i know it is uncomfortable for my friend from pennsylvania to hear that. i know he does not want to have to scold some of his republican colleagues who would like nothing better than to turn a blind eye while vladimir putin invades ukraine. i was in ukraine. i met with not only mr. zelenskyy, but i met with a lot of average citizens in ukraine. they are counting on us and the world community to help them protect their country from invasion. i hope that we do that. this, what we are doing today, is a colossal waste of time. that is what we do on a regular basis in this chamber. the republican majority has done a horrific job, and we are now out of time. let us hope after we get this rule done and get whatever we are going to vote on done here, that before the end of the week we can actually bring a package to the floor that will help save ukraine from a russian invasion. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. reschenthaler. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time for closing. under president trump's leadership, our nation was safe and our adversaries were put on notice. he truly embodied the slogan: peace through strength. as president, president trump destroyed the isis caliphate and took iranian general qasem soleimani and the founder of isis, al-baghdadi, off the battlefield. president trump refocused our nation on the indo-pacific and the growing threat of the chinese communist party. he enacted a maximum pressure campaign on iran by pulling out of the disastrous iran deal, placing significant sanctions on the regime, and used military deterrence against their proxy networks. in stark difference to president biden, the trump administration designated the irgc and the houthis as foreign terrorist organizations. when former president obama failed to enforce his own red line and allowed chemical weapons to be used against the syrian people, it was president trump who targeted the assad regime through force. he also helped bring peace and stability throughout the globe by negotiating the abraham accords, pushed our nato partners to do their fair share, and moved our embassy in israel to jerusalem. he stood up for the american worker, not the global elite, when he renegotiated nafta, placed tariffs on china, made america energy independent, and secured our southern border. in comparison, the biden administration's foreign policy agenda is worse than simply a nightmare because it is reality. that is why house republicans this week will stand up for our ally israel and block some of the disastrous decisions that have helped fund iran's terrorist network. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the previous question and ``yes'' on the rule. i yield back the balance of my time, and i move the previous question on the resolution. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on ordering the previous question. the question was taken; and the speaker pro tempore announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. mcgovern. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this question are postponed. ____________________