WASHINGTON—
U.S. Senators John Boozman (R-AR) and Mark Kelly (D-AZ) introduced legislation to reauthorize and update a federal-state partnership to address local, state and regional water challenges. The senators’
Advancing Water Research and Collaboration (AWRC) Act of 2025
would amend the
Water Resources Research Act (WRRA) of 1984
and extend the program through Fiscal Year 2029.
The U.S. Geological Survey administers WRRA grants to Water Resources Research Institutes throughout the nation. The institutions, including the Arkansas Water Resources Center located at the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville, help support critical water quality research as well as train future scientists and engineers while sharing important information to protect public health.
“Clean, safe water is vital and helps expand economic opportunity in communities across our country. The important research facilitated through the federal partnership with Water Research Institutes is at the foundation of our ability to increase access to this key resource. I am proud to lead this bipartisan effort to ensure it can continue to serve Arkansas, Arizona and every state’s water needs,”
Boozman said
.
“Across Arizona and the West, we’re seeing firsthand how drought and changing climate patterns are straining our water supplies and infrastructure. By strengthening this partnership between federal and state researchers, we’re investing in solutions that will protect public health and support reliable access to clean water. I look forward to working with Senator Boozman to meet our nation’s growing water challenges,”
Kelly said
.
“The National Institutes for Water Resources (NIWR) applauds Senators Boozman and Kelly for introducing the Advancing Water Research and Collaboration (AWRC) Act to reauthorize the Water Resources Research Act program at the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS),”
said National Institutes for Water Resources President Dr. Yu-Feng Forrest Lin
.  “NIWR institutes in the 50 states, D.C., and the three island territories partner with more than 150 state agencies and over 200 local and municipal offices to deliver critical research and planning that address pressing water challenges — including the water-energy nexus for AI infrastructure development, harmful algal blooms, Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) contamination, drought and flood mitigation, water reuse innovations, and advancements in water management. We look forward to working with Congress to ensure the continued success of this vital program.”
“In Arkansas, we use these funds to research emerging issues like innovative ways to mitigate harmful algal blooms and PFAS in our water resources. The Arkansas Water Resources Center funded seven research projects through WRRA this year and supports reauthorization of this important program to accomplish even more. We appreciate Senators Boozman and Kelly for leading this effort,”
said Arkansas Water Resources Center Director Dr. Brian E. Haggard
.
The
AWRC Act
would:
Increase the level of authorized funding for Water Resources Research Institutes from $15 million to $16 million;
Update applications for water research to include the growing artificial intelligence industry; and
Solidify the 80/20 funding allocation between the base program and special projects grants.
There are 54 Water Resources Research Institutes or Centers, one in each of the 50 states as well as the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam. Their efforts help meet the need to better understand causes and potential solutions surrounding increased droughts, algal blooms and floods.
Click
here
to read the text of the bill.