Click
here
to watch Boozman’s remarks.
WASHINGTON—
U.S. Senator John Boozman (R-AR) introduced U.S. Attorney David Clay Fowlkes at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing to consider his nomination to serve as a judge on the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas.
Boozman expressed his confidence in Fowlkes’ qualifications and reiterated strong support for his nomination.
“His expertise and temperament will undoubtedly serve him well as a judge, which is why Senator Cotton and I applaud President Trump for selecting him to fill this post,”
said Boozman
.
Fowlkes is a Harrison native currently serving as U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas, which includes 34 counties stretching from Texarkana and El Dorado to Fayetteville and Fort Smith. For more information on his nomination, click
here
.
Below are Boozman’s marks as delivered:
Thank you, Chairman Grassley and Senator Durbin for holding this very important hearing today. And good morning to my distinguished colleagues.
It is an honor to be here with my friend and colleague from the State of Arkansas, Senator Tom Cotton, to introduce President Trump’s nominee to serve as a judge on the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas.
I would also like to say hello to his family and friends who are here in attendance to support him. We are very happy to have you.
A native of Harrison, Arkansas, Clay is a graduate of Arkansas State University and the University of Arkansas Law School.
After graduating, Clay served as a Deputy Prosecuting Attorney for Benton County, where his work ethic and leadership elevated him to Division Chief.
He then transitioned to the U.S. Attorney’s Office of the Western District of Arkansas and has almost 2 decades there marked by extensive and impressive accomplishments.
His experience at the U.S. Attorney’s office includes stints as an Assistant United States Attorney, rising to Deputy Criminal Chief and then Criminal Chief, then as First Assistant United States Attorney, and eventually serving as the United States Attorney since January of 2020.
Throughout his career, Clay has earned the respect of his colleagues, law enforcement partners, and the communities he has served for his integrity, his professionalism and leadership.
He has built a reputation as a principled prosecutor who approaches every case with steady judgment, fairness and unwavering commitment to the rule of law.
I know he will approach each case put before him with the same dedication and intellect that he has demonstrated throughout his career.
His expertise and temperament will undoubtedly serve him well as a judge, which is why Senator Cotton and I applaud President Trump for selecting him to fill this post.
It is clear he is not only qualified, but extremely well suited for the role.
I strongly support his nomination and urge my colleagues to do the same.
Thank you, Senator Grassley.