[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 37 (Tuesday, March 8, 2016)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1325-S1326]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
FILLING THE SUPREME COURT VACANCY
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, several weeks ago, the untimely passing of
Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia created a vacancy on the Supreme
Court, which now has only eight Justices. It called into question the
constitutional responsibility of the President of the United States
when such a vacancy exists and the constitutional responsibility of
this Senate.
This morning in the Washington Post, there was speculation about six
possible nominees the President could send to the Senate. It was
speculation in the paper, and we don't know if any one of those would
actually be the nominee suggested by the President, but it is very
obvious--and having spoken with the President personally on this issue,
I know he is carefully weighing the options.
Why will the President move forward on this nomination? Because the
Constitution requires it. In article II, section 2, it says the
President shall appoint a nominee to fill a vacancy on the U.S. Supreme
Court--shall; not may, shall appoint--and the Senate shall perform its
advice and consent duties with respect to that nomination. So there are
two constitutional responsibilities: for the President to suggest a
nominee and for the Senate to act on that nominee.
There have been instances in American history where argument could be
made that that constitutional responsibility should be ignored or at
least delayed. One that comes to mind dates back to 1942. On October 3,
1942, a vacancy arose on the Supreme Court of the United States. On
that day, Justice James Byrnes on the Supreme Court resigned his seat
to become Director of the Office of Economic Stabilization in the
Roosevelt administration.
On January 11, 1943, President Roosevelt nominated Wiley Rutledge, a
Kentucky native and former dean of the University of Iowa College of
Law, to fill that vacancy. At this point in 1943, the United States was
fully engaged in the Second World War. When the President sent up this
nomination, battles were raging in Europe, Asia, Africa, and in the
Atlantic and the Pacific. It was unclear whether we would prevail or
the enemy would prevail. Each day brought alarming, stunning news about
developments in the war.
Three days after making his Supreme Court nomination, President
Roosevelt flew to Morocco to join Churchill and de Gaulle at a
Casablanca conference on the future of the war. At this conference, the
Allies coordinated their strategy against the Axis powers and decided
to launch an offensive in Sicily and in Italy.
On January 27, 1943, American bombers from the Eighth Air Force
conducted the first American air raid over Germany. On January 30,
Japanese aircraft torpedoed and sank a cruiser named the USS Chicago in
the South Pacific. Sixty-two men lost their lives. Over a thousand
survived due to a daring and swift rescue.
The Nation was clearly engaged in war. There was every reason in the
world for the President and even the Senate to say: This is no time to
talk about a Supreme Court vacancy. Instead, the President and the
Senate, even in the midst of World War II, understood their obligation
under the Constitution. The Senate Judiciary Committee held a hearing
for Rutledge on January 22, 11 days after his nomination had been sent
to the Hill by President Roosevelt. The committee reported Rutledge's
nomination to the floor on February 1, and he was confirmed by the full
Senate on February 8, 1943, 28 days after his nomination.
Mr. President, I wanted to put this set of facts on the record to
make it clear that there is absolutely no excuse for what the Senate
Republicans are doing with this vacancy. There is no excuse for the
Senate Republicans to
[[Page S1326]]
ignore their constitutional responsibility, a Constitution which they
have sworn to uphold and defend. We are not in the midst of a world
war; we are in the midst of a Presidential campaign. And that in and of
itself explains why Senator McConnell, just hours after the
announcement of the death of Antonin Scalia, made it clear that the
Senate would not accept its responsibility under the Constitution to
fill this vacancy on the Supreme Court.
It is a sad reality that the Republicans have made this decision to
leave the Supreme Court for over a year with this vacancy. When was the
last time the Senate left the Supreme Court with a vacancy for over a
year? It goes back to the Civil War, when we were at war with
ourselves, with thousands being killed on a daily basis. It was in that
turmoil that we left a vacancy on the Supreme Court for over a year.
Now the Senate Republicans point to the turmoil of a Presidential
election campaign as their reason for not accepting their
constitutional responsibility. They make a vacuous argument that we
should wait and pick a new President and let this new President, in his
next term or her next term, fill this vacancy. Well, that is an empty
argument because in the year 2012, in November of 2012, there was a
Presidential election. The two major party nominees were, of course,
President Obama running for reelection and Mitt Romney running on the
Republican side. In that election, the American people made a clear
choice. By a margin of 5 million votes, they reelected President Barack
Obama, and they reelected him for a 4-year term. So it turns out that
even in this year of 2016, Barack Obama is still the President of the
United States. This may come as news to those on the Republican side of
the aisle, but he was reelected for 4 years by a 5 million-vote margin,
and their refusal to give this President due consideration of his
nominee is a rejection of that verdict of the American people in that
election.
So for the first time in history, we find a nominee presented by the
President about to come to Capitol Hill, and the promise of the Senate
Republicans? They will not even hold a hearing, will not even consider
this nominee, and won't bring it to a vote. In fact, Senator McConnell
went further. He said he would refuse to even meet with any nominee
sent by the President. That is unheard of, unprecedented, uncalled for,
and an embarrassment to this institution of the United States Senate.
I call on the members of the Senate Judiciary Committee, on which I
am proud to serve, to step back and reassess the letter they signed 2
weeks ago. It was a letter accepting Senator McConnell's strategy,
saying they would not do their job. They would, in fact, walk away from
their job, walk away from their constitutional responsibility. I would
hope they would realize they are leaving a mark in history which is
indefensible, a mark in history which is unprecedented, and one which
sadly will leave the Supreme Court with only eight Justices.
The American people have spoken. They have chosen the President. The
President has accepted his constitutional responsibility. The Senate,
under Republican leadership, can do no less.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Flake). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent that I be
permitted to speak for up to 15 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without objection, it is so ordered.
____________________