[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 12 (Thursday, January 21, 2016)]
[Senate]
[Pages S155-S156]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
SIXTH ANNIVERSARY OF SUPREME COURT'S CITIZENS UNITED DECISION
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, today marks the 6-year anniversary of the
Supreme Court's decision in Citizens United v. Federal Election
Commission. In this far-reaching opinion, on a divided 5-4 vote, the
Court struck down years of precedent and held that the First Amendment
permitted corporations to spend freely from their treasuries to
influence elections.
As a result of Citizens United and the series of decisions that
followed in its wake, special interests and wealthy, well-connected
campaign donors have so far poured more than $2 billion into
[[Page S156]]
recent Federal elections, including 2016 races. About half of the total
outside spending since Citizens United went toward the 2012
Presidential election. More than 93 percent of all Super PAC donations
in 2012 came in contributions of at least $10,000 from only 3,318
donors, who make up 0.0011 percent of the U.S. population. Of that
group, an elite class of 159 people each contributed at least $1
million--which was nearly 60 percent of all Super PAC donations that
year.
In the lead-up to the 2016 Presidential primaries, we are once again
witnessing an immense amount of spending. A New York Times
investigation in October found that of approximately 120 million
households in the United States, a mere 158 families, along with
businesses they own or control, had already contributed $176 million--
nearly half of all funds raised to support the 2016 Presidential
campaigns before a single primary vote has been cast.
Congressional races have been similarly flooded with outside
spending. For example, in the 2014 midterm elections, outside groups
spent more than $560 million to influence congressional races--eight
times the approximately $70 million spent in 2006, the last midterm
election cycle before Citizens United. And more than 30 percent of that
spending came from tax-exempt, ``dark money'' groups that conceal their
donors from the public.
The impact of this incredible spending stretches from races for the
White House and Congress to Governors' mansions, State capitols, and
city halls throughout the country. As in Federal campaigns, Citizens
United has led to an explosion of outside spending at the State and
local levels, with corporations and wealthy single spenders looking to
play kingmaker, pouring cash into races for positions ranging from
district attorney to school board members. One of the most startling
examples occurred in 2014 in Richmond, CA, a city with a population of
107,000. Chevron--an energy company with more than $200 billion in
annual revenue--spent approximately $3 million through campaign
committees aimed at influencing the mayoral and city council races.
That means Chevron spent at least $33 per voting-age resident in
Richmond.
The long-term damage to our political process from Citizens United is
just beginning to reveal itself. Some scandals have already surfaced,
and there will undoubtedly be more stories of corruption and corrosive
influence ahead, further eroding public confidence in our government. I
have worked with my colleagues on a number of solutions to stem this
tidal wave of secret unlimited spending, including improving disclosure
and creating a more transparent campaign finance system. I will
continue my efforts to establish a public financing system for
congressional elections through the Fair Elections Now Act, which I
reintroduced last year.
We also must continue to push for a constitutional amendment that
would protect and restore the First Amendment by overturning Citizens
United and empowering Congress and State legislatures to set
reasonable, content neutral limitations on campaign spending. In 2614,
Justice John Paul Stevens discussed his support for an amendment to
overturn Citizens United in testimony before the Senate Rules
Committee. Here is what he said: ``Unlimited campaign expenditures
impair the process of democratic self-government. They create a risk
that successful candidates will pay more attention to the interests of
non-voters who provided them with money than to the interests of the
voters who elected them. That risk is unacceptable.''
As we approach the sixth anniversary of the Citizens United decision,
we should heed Justice Stevens's words. It is unacceptable for
politicians to feel more beholden to wealthy donors than their
constituents. We must work to fix America's campaign finance system and
overturn Citizens United so that elected officials listen to the
everyday Americans who voted them into office--not just those who
bankrolled their success.
(At the request of Mr. Reid, the following statement was ordered to
be printed in the Record.)
____________________