[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 3 (Monday, January 8, 2024)]
[Senate]
[Page S7]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
Business Before the Senate
Mr. McCONNELL. Madam President, I would like to begin by wishing our
colleagues a very happy new year and welcoming everyone back to begin a
new session.
There is a tremendous amount on the Senate's plate, beginning with
the unfinished business of the year that just ended.
Yesterday, negotiators announced they had agreed on a path to
completing full year appropriations for the fiscal year that began 3
months ago. Delivering on this basic governing responsibility in a
timely manner has proven a tough row to hoe, and building broad
recognition of the most urgent priorities facing our Nation remains
difficult.
Here is the truth. Threats to U.S. national security are growing, and
the Biden administration's habit of proposing real-dollar cuts to
defense funding is a streak that must end at three. With its
forthcoming budget request for fiscal year 2025, the administration
needs to finally start taking the long-term needs of America's national
security seriously.
But Congress's most immediate opportunity to address urgent national
security priorities will be supplemental legislation in the coming
weeks. I was encouraged to see that Senator Lankford and our Democratic
colleagues made progress toward an agreement to put meaningful border
security policy at the heart of this supplemental.
As negotiations continued over the holiday break, Customs and Border
Protection reported that December set a new, alltime monthly tally for
southern border apprehensions. The Biden administration's border crisis
is not going to fix itself, and the status quo is unacceptable. The
answer, as Republicans have been saying, literally for years, is to
restore meaningful border enforcement and fix the broken policies that
the cartels are exploiting to devastating effect. And I am grateful to
Senator Lankford for continuing to insist on such commonsense steps at
the negotiating table.
The stakes here are quite high. We have an opportunity to make the
most comprehensive headway on border security in a generation.
But our national security challenges don't end at our own borders.
The threats we face are intertwined, and the coming days will show the
world whether America is willing to treat them accordingly. Allies and
adversaries alike will be curious what we do with news that Russia is
now attacking targets in Ukraine with ballistic missiles supplied by
the rogue Kim regime in North Korea, following the suicide drones
provided by Iran. Yet again, it is abundantly clear that authoritarians
support authoritarians--as if our clear-eyed Pacific partners like
Japan, South Korea, and Australia needed more evidence that what
happens in Ukraine matters in their own neighborhood; as if we needed
yet another reminder that facing down an expanded industrial base in
Russia, China, Iran, and North Korea will require America and our
allies and partners to invest more seriously in our own defense
production capacity.
Meanwhile, terrorists in Yemen are spelling out in painful detail
just how wide the ripples of Iran's war machine extend. The world's
most active state sponsor of terror isn't just a destabilizing force in
the Middle East. Tehran isn't just sowing chaos for American-minded
partners in the region. Tehran's bloody influence isn't even limited to
helping to train the Hamas and PIJ terrorists who conducted the
horrific massacre of Israeli Jews on October 7, or to building
Hezbollah into a top-tier international terrorist organization, or to
the repeated attacks its proxies have carried out against U.S.
personnel in Iraq and Syria.
The Houthis' campaign against civilian ships in the Red Sea is an
assault on the global economy that the world has no choice but to
address. Once more, an adversary's initiative has forced a reluctant
administration to act.
With fawning conciliation and half measures, the Biden administration
has squandered deterrence against Iran. Russia is openly mocking the
fickleness of Western support for Ukraine. And China, our single
greatest strategic adversary, is watching closely to see if America can
still manage to lead or sustain credible resistance to authoritarian
violence.
So these are the stakes after 3 years of the administration's foreign
policy. The world is asking not when or how but whether the world's
greatest superpower will start acting like one, which makes our work on
the supplemental national security legislation even more urgent.
Beginning at the southern border, we must demonstrate that America is
up for the challenges we face. The Senate cannot afford to get this
wrong.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tempore. Without objection, it is so
ordered.