[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 50 (Monday, April 4, 2016)]
[Senate]
[Pages S1636-S1637]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
MORNING BUSINESS
______
DEFEND TRADE SECRETS BILL
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I am pleased that the Senate voted today
on the Defend Trade Secrets Act. I am proud to be an original cosponsor
of this legislation, which would create a Federal civil cause of action
to help deter and remedy trade secret theft that is costing American
businesses hundreds of billions of dollars each year.
Trade secrets, such as manufacturing processes, industrial
techniques, and customer lists, are critical assets for U.S. companies.
However, American companies are increasingly being targeted by efforts
to steal this proprietary information, often by overseas interests.
Currently, there is no Federal civil remedy available to companies to
fight this theft, and the Justice Department does not have the
resources to investigate and prosecute criminally all of the thefts
that are taking place. While most States have passed civil trade secret
laws, these laws are not well suited for remedying interstate or
foreign trade secret theft. The lack of a Federal civil remedy for
trade secret misappropriation is a glaring gap in current law,
especially since Federal civil remedies are available to protect other
forms of intellectual property such as patents, trademarks, and
copyrights.
The Defend Trade Secrets Act would close this gap by creating a civil
right of action in Federal court for misappropriation of a trade secret
that is related to a product or service used in interstate or foreign
commerce. Available remedies would include injunctions, damages, and in
certain cases enhanced damages. This broadly bipartisan bill has been
carefully crafted to empower companies to protect their trade secrets
through a process that will be both swift and fair. By helping American
companies safeguard their essential trade secrets from theft, the bill
will help keep innovation and jobs in America.
The Defend Trade Secrets Act has been cosponsored by 65 Senators and
is supported by groups and companies representing a broad swath of the
American economy, including numerous employers based in my home State
of Illinois, such as Caterpillar and Illinois Tool Works. I am pleased
that the Senate is moving forward with passage of this legislation, and
I hope the bill will soon pass the House of Representatives and be
signed into law.
(At the request of Mr. Reid, the following statement was ordered to
be printed in the Record.)
Mr. LEAHY. Today, the Senate voted on legislation that will
provide a valuable tool to protect against trade secret theft. This
legislation is supported by businesses from diverse sectors of our
economy, including companies large and small.
In Vermont, trade secrets protect the specialized knowledge of
woodworkers who have made heirloom products for generations, and
cutting-edge start-ups that are shaping the future of plastics,
software, and green technology. Trade secrets protect the recipes for
Vermont craft brews and closely guarded customer lists for our top
tourist services. Today's legislation provides an important tool to
protect these innovative businesses in Vermont and across the country.
The Defend Trade Secrets Act contains a bipartisan provision I
offered with Senator Grassley to ensure that employers and other
entities cannot bully whistleblowers or other litigants by threatening
them with a lawsuit for trade secret theft. The provision protects
disclosures made in confidence to law enforcement or an attorney for
the purpose of reporting a suspected violation of law and disclosures
made in the course of a lawsuit, provided that the disclosure is made
under seal. It requires employers to provide clear notice of this
protection in any nondisclosure agreements they ask individuals to
sign. This commonsense public policy amendment is supported by the
Project on Government Oversight and the Government Accountability
Project and builds upon valuable scholarly work by Professor Peter
Menell.
Good, thoughtful work was done in the Senate Judiciary Committee to
craft the bill we are voting on today, which builds on earlier versions
introduced in prior Congresses. It is a testament to how the Judiciary
Committee can and should operate when it functions with regular order.
We held a public hearing on the issue of trade secret theft in the
Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism during the 113th Congress and
another hearing in the full committee this past December. Senators
suggested improvements to the bill, they debated them, and they voted
on the legislation.
Unfortunately, the regular order and fair consideration that was
given to this legislation is being denied for one of the Senate's most
important and solemn responsibilities: considering the Supreme Court
nomination pending in the Senate Judiciary Committee. Americans by a 2-
to-1 margin want the Senate to move forward with a full and fair
process for Chief Judge Garland. The Senate today is coming together to
pass trade secrets legislation, but that does nothing to absolve us
from doing our jobs by considering the pending Supreme Court
nominee.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I wish to express my support for the
Defend Trade Secrets Act and to explain some of the changes that were
made in the Judiciary Committee to ensure the bill does not adversely
impact California.
First, let me congratulate Senators Hatch and Coons on their work on
this bill.
This bill will help protect vital trade secrets of American companies
by providing a Federal cause of action for the theft of trade secrets.
It will ensure there is access to Federal courts in these cases. During
consideration of the bill in the Judiciary Committee, some members,
including me, voiced concern that the injunctive relief authorized
under the bill could override State law limitations that safeguard the
ability of an employee to move from one job to another. This is known
as employee mobility. Some States, including California, have strong
public policies or laws in favor of employee mobility. These are
reflected in some State court precedent or in laws that are on the
books.
When this bill came before the Judiciary Committee, there was a
serious concern that a Federal law without similar limits would
override the law in those States and create impairments on employees'
ability to move from job to job. If that were to happen, it could be a
major limitation on employee mobility that does not exist today. To
prevent this, the bill now includes language to preserve the law in
California and elsewhere. Specifically, the bill bars an injunction
``to prevent a person from entering into an employment relationship,''
period. In other words, relief under this bill cannot include an
injunction barring a person from starting a new job. As I understand
it, this
[[Page S1637]]
reflects the practice under current law in California.
Secondly, any injunction that is issued cannot be based ``merely on
the information the person knows.'' This language makes clear that any
injunctive relief must be based on real evidence of a threat to the
trade secrets, not simply on the employee's knowledge.
Third, the bill also includes language to ensure that any injunction
issued under the bill does not ``otherwise conflict with an applicable
State law prohibiting restraints on the practice of a lawful
profession, trade, or business.''
This language will ensure that States are able to protect against the
use of this bill to create unlawful restraints on business practices
within their States. In fact, California's strong public policy in
favor of employee mobility stems from such a law, which is located at
section 16600 in the State's business and professions code. This law
states: ``Except as provided in this chapter, every contract by which
anyone is restrained from engaging in a lawful profession, trade, or
business of any kind is to that extent void.''
As I said in the markup of this bill in the Judiciary Committee and
as is noted in the Judiciary Committee's report, if a State's trade
secrets law authorizes additional remedies beyond what this bill
authorizes, those State law remedies will still be available.
I felt it was important to protect California, which has a vibrant
and dynamic economy of almost 40 million people in so many sectors.
I am very grateful that Senators Hatch and Coons were willing to
accommodate my concerns, and I am pleased to support this bill and to
cosponsor it.
Thank you very much.
____________________