[Congressional Record Volume 162, Number 10 (Tuesday, January 19, 2016)]
[Senate]
[Pages S87-S88]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
THE CONTINUING CHALLENGE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, yesterday Americans once again paused to
remember a great and prophetic leader, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr. Chances are, you heard a snippet yesterday of Dr. King's immortal
``I Have a Dream'' speech.
Maybe you heard a tape of Dr. King dreaming of that day when ``my
four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not
be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their
character.'' That is the Martin Luther King, Jr., that we like to
remember: the dreamer. But Dr. King did more than inspire us. He
challenged us. And he challenges us still.
Dr. King told us about his dream for America in 1963. He was murdered
in 1968. In the 5 years between the March on Washington and his death,
Dr. King's mission--and his challenges to us--grew.
Like the prophet he was, in his final years, Dr. King spoke more and
more frequently and forcefully about injustice. Many of the injustices
that Dr. King spoke of remain with us today. Some are even greater
today than when Dr. King died.
Three years after Dr. King's assassination, the writer Carl Wendell
Hines penned a poem which he entitled, ``A Dead Man's Dream.'' These
are his words:
Now that he is safely dead let us praise him
Build monuments to his glory, sing hosannas to his name.
Dead men make such convenient heroes.
They cannot rise to challenge the images we would fashion
from their lives.
And besides,
it is easier to build monuments
than to make a better world.
So now that he is safely dead
We, with eased consciences, can teach our children that he
was a great man,
Knowing that the cause for which he lived is still a cause
And the dream for which he died is still a dream
A dead man's dream.
So wrote the poet Carl Wendell Hines 45 years ago.
The Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965 were
two of the most important laws passed in the last century. Dr. King's
leadership and the sacrifices of millions of other men and women of
good faith who believed in his mission were indispensable to the
passage of those two historic laws.
But Dr. King knew that civil rights and voting rights were only
partial victories without economic justice. As he, himself, said of the
now iconic Greensboro lunch counter sit-ins: ``What good is having the
right to sit at a lunch counter if you can't afford to buy a
hamburger?''
At the end of his life, Dr. King was planning what he called the Poor
People's Campaign. He was challenging America to offer greater economic
justice and opportunity to poor people of all races and backgrounds. We
have much more work to do if we are going to make that part of Dr.
King's dream a reality.
The Great Recession ended officially in 2009. Economic growth has
returned to America. But for African Americans and many other
Americans, economic fairness is farther out of reach than it's been in
decades.
Wall Street has regained all of the value it lost in the Great
Recession and then some. But middle-class and working-class Americans
haven't recovered from that economic disaster.
When you factor in inflation, the average American family hasn't had
a raise since 1971, shortly after Dr. King's death. A recent survey
shows that 62 percent of Americans have less than $1,000 in their
savings accounts--and a third of those undersavers have no savings
account at all.
In 1965, the average CEO was paid 20 times as much as the average
worker in his or her--usually his--company. Today the average CEO earns
more than 295 times as much as the average worker.
The economic disparities are even greater when you factor in race.
Think about this: African Americans are almost three times more likely
to live in poverty today than White Americans. And the median net worth
of White households is 13 times the level for Black households.
We have a long way to go to achieve Dr. King's dream of economic
justice and fairness in America. We should strengthen the Wall Street
reforms that Congress passed to prevent a repeat of the kind of
recklessness that caused the Great Recession, not gut those reforms.
Dr. King was murdered in Memphis, TN, where he had gone to show
support for striking sanitation workers. Two months earlier, two black
sanitation workers in Memphis had been crushed to death by faulty
equipment. The city's sanitation workers organized a strike for job
safety, better pay, and the right to unionize; and Dr. King took on
their cause.
For years now, the rights of working people to band together and
unionize has been under attack--an attack financed by wealthy corporate
interests.
Earlier this month, the U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments in
Friedrichs v. California Teachers' Association, which asks the Court to
overrule decades of precedent protecting the ability of working people
to win fair wages and working conditions through effective unionizing.
If we truly believe in the America Martin Luther King gave his life
for, we should protect the right of workers to form and join unions,
not work to diminish and destroy that right.
The words that Dr. King spoke at the 1963 March on Washington have
become part of our American creed. But the 1963 March was not the first
time that Martin Luther King had spoken to a large crowd in Washington.
In 1957, on the third anniversary of the Supreme Court's historic
Brown v. Board of Education decision that found segregated, ``separate
but equal'' schools to be inherently unequal and unconstitutional, a
29-year-old Martin Luther King spoke in Washington at a rally billed as
a Prayer Pilgrimage for Freedom. For 3 years, Southern States had
engaged in what they called ``massive resistance'' to the Supreme
Court's ruling.
Martin Luther King titled his remarks at the 1957 Prayer Pilgrimage
Give Us the Ballot. His message was simple: If Congress and other
elected officials will not enforce the law of the land, give African
Americans the ballot, and ``we will elect legislatures that will.''
Eight years later, Congress passed the Voting Rights Act. For years,
the Voting Rights Act was hailed by both parties as a great
achievement. It was repeatedly reauthorized by large, bipartisan
majorities in Congress.
In 2013, however, a slim conservative majority on the Supreme Court
gutted the Voting Rights Act in Shelby County v. Holder by striking
down the provision that required certain jurisdictions to preclear any
changes to their voting laws with the Department of Justice.
If we truly believe in Dr. King's dream for America, let's work
together to restore the Voting Rights Act this year.
One year to the day before he died, Dr. King delivered a sermon at
Riverside Church in New York City that cost him the support of many old
political allies. It was a speech condemning America's actions in the
war in Vietnam.
[[Page S88]]
If Dr. King were alive today, I think he would be heartbroken, and he
would challenge us to confront the tidal wave of guns that have turned
so many American neighborhoods into combat zones.
Yes, the Second Amendment speaks of a right to bear arms. But
children ought to have a right to play on school playgrounds without
getting caught in gang crossfire.
Americans ought to be able to go to a movie or to a college lecture
or a church Bible study class without risking being killed by someone
who is too sick or too dangerous to have a gun but has one anyway.
Martin Luther King was taken from us by gun violence. If we truly
believe in his dream, let's work together to find ways to keep guns out
of the wrong hands.
``It is easier to build monuments than to make a better world.'' That
is what the poet said. But people don't elect us to do the easy work.
They expect us to do the hard work, the necessary work, of making
America better, fairer, and more secure.
I ask my colleagues: Let's work together to advance economic justice,
protect voting rights, and end the violence that is turning too many
American neighborhoods into war zones. In short, let's work together to
advance Dr. King's dream.
____________________