[congressional record volume 162, number 11 (wednesday, january 20, 2016)] [senate] [pages s102-s103] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] 35th anniversary of the iranian hostage release mr. isakson. mr. president, i rise on january 20, 2016, on the floor of the senate to acknowledge this day as the 35th anniversary of the return of 53 americans by the iranian government to the shores of the united states of america after captivity for 444 days in iran. as the members of the senate will remember, they were employees of the u.s. embassy in iran who were brutally attacked, sent through mock executions, subjected to beatings, subjected to brainwashing, subjected to torture, and for 444 days were out of communication with their loved ones and our country. fortunately, we successfully negotiated their release, and on january 20, 1981, they were released back to the united states. but that release included the execution of the algerian accords between the united states and the iranians, which prohibited any hostage from suing the nation of iran for compensation for their captivity. since that release, many americans in the house of representatives and the senate, including myself, have worked hard to try to right that wrong. i am very pleased to acknowledge that under the passage of the omnibus in december, we were able to secure funding to be able to compensate those hostages as they should have been compensated 35 years ago. we were able to take money from the paribas bank forfeiture of iranian funds to the u.s. government to see to it that they were compensated in some measure for the sacrifice they made for our country. a lot of people have written: why would you compensate people for their captivity? why would you go to the effort for 35 years to see to it these people got some amount of money to compensate them for their captivity? why would we not do it? there are americans all over the world serving in very dangerous places, serving as ambassadors and diplomats through the state department. they should know we have their backs, not just on the days they are serving but 35 years later if they were tortured, beaten or if they were held captive. we all rejoiced to see the americans that were released by the iranians. we know there were americans taken hostage in iraq and baghdad 2 days later. taking americans hostage and using them as tools of war is something that has been happening for years and years, and the iranian government is at the head of it. these americans deserve fair treatment, compensation, and recompense for all they suffered, and i am proud to say that because of a bipartisan effort in the house and senate, we were able to do so. i want to thank senator corker, the chairman of the foreign relations committee; senator cardin, the former chairman; senator menendez from new jersey; senator reid from nevada, who was instrumental in helping; and senator blumenthal, my ranking member on the veterans' affairs committee of the senate, for help on this bill and for all the help they brought. i want to thank the entire body of the senate, who in december voted unanimously to see to it that the paribas money was made available to the survivors of the people who were taken hostage in 1979. you might remember the show ``nightline'' that we see on television started with the original report in 1979 by ted koppel about the hostage taking. it became a television show when [[page s103]] they were held that long. i am glad now that the ending of that show is a successful ending, because we brought them home and we saw to it they were compensated. some of them have passed away. some of them had taken their own life. some of them had difficulties. some were never able to rid themselves of the scars of the torture and brainwashing. but this senate and this congress did what it was supposed to do, stood up for americans and sent a signal to everybody who works in the state department, who is a diplomat for our country, and who works overseas that if you are taken, we will stand behind you and we will never ever forget--whether it is 444 days or 35 years--once an american serving our country, always an american serving our country. we will always be there for you, and we will go to every effort and every length, even if it does take 35 years. on the anniversary of their release in 1981 when they came back to the united states, we pay tribute to those great americans who served our country and were held hostage in iran. we give thanks that we have the kind of men and women who are willing, day in and day out, to sacrifice on behalf of our great country. may god bless each and every one of them, and may god bless the united states of america. i suggest the absence of a quorum. the acting president pro tempore. the clerk will call the roll. the senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll. mr. kaine. mr. president, i ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. the acting president pro tempore. without objection, it is so ordered. ____________________