[congressional record volume 162, number 10 (tuesday, january 19, 2016)] [senate] [pages s83-s84] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] honoring our armed forces major adrianna vorderbruggen ms. klobuchar. mr. president, i rise today to honor u.s. air force maj. adrianna vorderbruggen, who was tragically killed in the line of duty 4 days before christmas when a taliban suicide bomber rammed his motorcycle carrying explosives into a joint nato-afghan patrol near bagram air force base in afghanistan. she was the highest ranking military officer there who was killed. there were several others who tragically lost their lives as well. today i had the honor of attending the major's funeral service at the fort myer memorial chapel. senator franken was also there. she was laid to rest with full military honors at the arlington national cemetery. she is survived by her wife heather, her son jacob, her father joseph, and her brothers, dan, john, and chris. i will [[page s84]] note that three of the four members of the family--since i was just talking about adoption--were, in fact, adopted. adrianna was a native of my hometown of plymouth, mn, where she attended my alma mater, wayzata high school. she excelled in both academics and athletics and was a 3-year starter on the wayzata high school women's soccer team. this is a very large suburban high school. the year she was a starter and captain, she led the team to the state championship. she was also the captain of the wayzata high school hockey team. she went on to the u.s. air force academy in colorado and graduated in 2002. in her senior year, she led the women's rugby team to the national championship title. she was their cocaptain, so you can imagine. she was a starter on the soccer team and helped lead that team in high school to a state championship. she was the captain of the hockey team, which is a big deal in minnesota, of a big high school, and she was also the cocaptain of the rugby team and helped lead that team to a national championship title in the air force. we can imagine the leadership adrianna had shown through her life. she always loved sports--something that was talked about a lot today by her family. after graduating, she attended the air force special investigations academy and was deployed to iraq until 2005. in 2009 she was selected as an air force institute of technology student in forensic sciences and earned a master's degree in forensic sciences at george washington university. in 2010 she became a special agent for the air force office of special investigations, which investigates felony-level crimes committed by or against air force personnel in the united states and overseas. major vorderbruggen was also an outspoken opponent to the military's former do not ask, do not tell policy. she and heather, an air force veteran, were among the first servicemembers to marry after the policy was rescinded in 2010. adrianna chose to serve her country in spite of the military's policy and fought for reform rather than hiding her identity. as her older brother chris said, ``she inspired us all, i think, by just being herself, and being proud to be who she was.'' adrianna was known by her family and friends for her positive attitude and her infectious smile. at the service this morning, her dad remembered adrianna's ability to remain upbeat even under challenging circumstances. and she loved their little boy, jacob, who was there today with a loving family around him. major vorderbruggen will be remembered for the work she did in service to her country and the work she did to make sure all brave men and women in uniform receive the honor and the dignity they so rightfully deserve. i am proud to call maj. adrianna vorderbruggen a daughter of minnesota. she gave her life for a country she loves. thank you. i yield the floor. i suggest the absence of a quorum. the presiding officer. the clerk will call the roll. the senior assistant legislative clerk proceeded to call the roll. ms. klobuchar. mr. president, i ask unanimous consent that the order for the quorum call be rescinded. the presiding officer. without objection, it is so ordered. ____________________