home newsroom press releases november 07, 2025 warren publishes new analysis comparing republican tax breaks for wealthy to investments in american families new comparisons show how republicans’ giant tax breaks for the wealthy in one big beautiful bill could instead be used to lower the costs of health care and food for millions of american families “trump and republicans are fighting for their billionaire buddies, while democrats are fighting for american families.” one-pager (pdf) washington, d.c. – u.s. senator elizabeth warren (d-mass.), a member of the senate finance committee, today published a new analysis revealing how republicans’ giant tax breaks for billionaires and corporations in their one big beautiful bill act (obbba) could instead fund investments in health care and food assistance for millions of american families. as the republican government shutdown drags on, the impacts of republicans’ failure to lower costs for working people become clearer by the day. “donald trump and republicans in congress are knocking millions of americans off their health insurance and ripping away food assistance from families — all so they can fund giant tax cuts for billionaires and giant corporations. this is a matter of priorities: trump and republicans are fighting for their billionaire buddies, while democrats are fighting for american families,” said senator warren. key findings from sen. warren’s analysis include: in obbba, republicans handed out a tax break that will be worth $132 billion to the richest one percent of americans in 2027 alone. they could have instead used that money to extend the affordable care act’s (aca’s) premium tax credits to prevent health insurance premiums from skyrocketing for over 20 million people next year—and still have had $100 billion leftover. with the tax break that will be worth an estimated $12.5 billion that republicans gave to just one company—microsoft—in 2026, they could have instead provided a full year’s worth of snap benefits to 5.2 million americans. with the money republicans used to hand out a tax break that will be worth $20 billion to individuals inheriting or gifting multi-million-dollar fortunes in 2027, they could have provided medicaid coverage to over 6 million children—every child in missouri, tennessee, ohio, and nebraska combined—for one year. instead of giving a nearly $16 billion tax break to amazon this year, republicans could have lowered aca premiums for 2.4 million people. with the money republicans used to hand out tax breaks that will be worth $137 billion to corporations in 2026, they could have instead provided medicaid coverage to over 17 million adults for a full year. read sen. warren’s new analysis here . ### print email tweet next article previous article