home newsroom press releases november 07, 2025 warren, wyden probe social security chief bisignano amid new questions about his tenure as ceo at fiserv “mr. bisignano appears to have failed to manage fiserv effectively, and may have misled investors and the public about the company’s financial status, raising concerns about his ability to serve as a key social security and irs official in the trump administration.” text of letter (pdf) washington, d.c. – senate banking committee ranking member elizabeth warren (d-mass.) and senate finance committee ranking member ron wyden (d-ore.), both leading members of the senate democrats’ social security war room, launched a probe into social security administration (ssa) commissioner frank bisignano’s tenure as chief executive officer at fiserv. bisignano was ceo at fiserv prior to his appointment to lead social security. after his confirmation, he divested more than $550 million in fiserv stocks — just months before the company’s stock price declined by more than 50%. last month, trump appointed mr. bisignano to a second administration position, the newly created role of ceo of the internal revenue service. “at a minimum, mr. bisignano appears to have failed to manage fiserv effectively, and may have misled investors and the public about the company’s financial status, raising concerns about his ability to serve as a key social security and irs official in the trump administration,” wrote the lawmakers. “because of mr. bisignano’s mismanagement, many fiserv investors, including retirees and members of the public, lost money — a fate mr. bisignano avoided.” after bisignano left fiserv, the company faced a series of financial setbacks that raised serious questions about his management of the firm. investors filed a lawsuit against fiserv that alleges the company—under bisignano’s tenure—misled them by artificially inflating growth numbers. and the new fiserv ceo identified major problems which he inherited from bisignano, including the company’s over reliance on its ability to do business with argentina and placing too much of an emphasis on achieving short-term results. a fiserv subsidiary also received an important treasury department contract in september 2025, raising additional questions. the senators called for transparency surrounding fiserv’s bid for this lucrative government contract, which would manage a debit card program distributing social security and other government benefits to more than 3.4 million americans. during bisignano’s confirmation process, he did not disclose any active contract negotiations between fiserv or its subsidiaries with the federal government. to better understand the events surrounding bisignano’s management of fiserv, the lawmakers requested answers to questions on the company’s business with argentina, internal investigations, negotiations with the american government, and non-disclosure agreements signed by bisignano. wyden and warren have continuously held bisignano accountable since his nomination to lead social security. in october 2025, the senators pressed the trump administration for giving bisignano an additional position, “ceo” of the irs. in march 2025, they pressed bisignano on his plans to lead ssa, including the disclosure of any ties between fiserv and the federal government. in july, senator warren secured key commitments and admissions from bisignano, specifically relating to social security data and metrics, staffing, paper checks, and more. senate dems’ social security war room coordinates messaging across the senate democratic caucus and external stakeholders, encourages grassroots engagement by providing opportunities for americans to share what social security means to them, and educates senate staff, the american public, and stakeholders about republicans’ agenda and their continued cuts to americans’ social security services and benefits. ### print email tweet next article previous article