and we are back at the rocking, rockest lit grill. and phil dalpia, pennsylvania's democratic national convention. welcome back everyone. i hope you are enjoying our coverage. president barack obama is saying no one is more qualified. no one. more qualified to be president than hillary clinton. i want to bring in congress and brad sherman of california, a senior member of the house foreign affairs committee. and of course my dream team is back with me. political commentator peter bynard, a contributor to the atlantic, kaley mcintyre, a donald trump supporter, political commentator angela rye, and also bacardi sellers, a hillary clinton supporter. thank you, congress. it will be for bain with us. this was another big moment i want you to listen and get your response to it. here it is. watch this. and most of all, i see americans of every party, every background, every faith who believe that we are stronger together. black, white, latino, asian, native american, young, old, gay, straight, men, women, folks with disabilities, all pledging allegiance under the same proud flag to this big, bold country that we love. that is what i see. that is the america i know. and there is only one candidate who believes in that future has devoted her life to that future, a mother and a grandmother who would do anything to help our children thrive. a leader with real plans to break down barriers and blast through glass ceilings. and widen the circle of opportunity to every single american, the next president of the united states, hillary clinton. so, congress, in which a reaction, one of inclusion instead of exclusion? i think the president showed that the america of the future is consistent with the values of america of the past, that we can all embrace the america of the future. and i think he said it very well. what was your reaction tonight to the president's speech and then hillary clinton coming on say? well, the president's speech was inspirational. one of his best. the night in the day was just an outstanding one for our candidacy. we had a flawless day of a convention, an inspirational day. and then donald trump said something even stupider than he usually does with this request that the russians get involved in our political process. so peter, i want to, you mentioned president ronald reagan. and then john, that hurts, pondhurtz, right, was a reagan speech writer. he asked me at this night, he said, take about five paragraphs out of that obama speech and it could have been a reagan speech. trust me, i know. what do you think of that? yeah, what i think obama did was fascinating and congressman sherman mentioned it is, donald trump is peddling nostalgia. he is peddling nostalgia for people who think that america was, you know, hit its high point in 1985 or 1955 and has been on the downhill ever since. and barack obama was saying, we can honor the past, the my canns and ancestors and their values. but america does not, we do not lose those just because a lot of mexicans and muslims come in and because american americans get empowered. those values are universal. just because we have removed the past does not mean that we lose it when the demographic face of america changes. and that i think was in a way a very powerful response to donald trump and it was a personal response. because remember, donald trump questioned his americanism, questioned whether he was really an american. he said, i am the grandson of kansas, kansas. i have a black father and a muslim name and i grew up in indonesia, but i embody those same values. yeah. i, kayleigh, i want to get your reaction to this moment. hillary's been in the room. she is been part of those decisions. she knows what is at stake in the decisions our government makes. she is a stake for the work and family, for the senior citizen, for the small business owner, for the soldier, for the veteran. and even in the midst of crisis, she listens to people and she keeps her cool and she treats everybody with respect. and no matter how daunting the odds, no matter how much people try to knock her down, she never, ever quits. that is the hillary i know. that is the hillary i have come to admire. and that is why i can say with confidence, there has never been a man or a woman. not me, not bill, nobody, more qualified than hillary clinton to serve as president of the united states of america. so donald trump has never been in the room. how does he convince voters at secretary clinton's experiences and valuable? well, i would not want donald trump to be in the room of the people who orchestrated this foreign policy. i mean, the fact speaks for themselves. this is called isis jv. he said al-qaeda is on the run. and then isis grew to 40,000 strong. we have the isis terrorist attack every 84 hours. hillary clinton called bashir al-assad a reformer before he proceeded to gas his own people and this administration oversaw the destruction of syria and the rise of isis. i do not want donald trump in the room with these folks. i want someone with a different vision with executive capacity and that is what donald trump has. so i just think that it is important for us to acknowledge and other fervent you after this one point. again, i am going to continue to go back to congress and congressman, i know you will appreciate this. i have never requested military authorizations and his continued military force against isil. he was not granted that. it was not even considered. he is been asking for it since february 2015. the president's lawyers have said that the existing authorization to use force passed in 2001 gives him the authority to do everything he is doing. absolutely. and what we could not agree upon was a replacement. as a matter of fact, he did not ask for repeal and replace of that very broad resolution we passed in 2001. so he is got the authorization. but can you go back to what you just said? you said you could not agree on. before you came on set, my only point is that at every turn he is faced opposition and it is made it very difficult to accomplish some of the things before like this. just to kind of go just one step further and look at this from a 50,000 foot view. i mean, i understand what kayleigh was saying earlier, but that does not actually give credit to the president and the secretary of state john kerry and others because every day we are bombing the hell out of isil and every day isil is losing ground. we do know that. but even more importantly, the sub in mind, we are not experiencing thousands of casualties every year. and most of our, and we are brave. we did under drug law and we have pushed and we have let them do the damage. we are managing the problem without thousands of our uniform men and women dying. that matters. and by negotiating the iran deal, we make, we allow ourselves to prevent iran from getting a nuclear weapon without a third of middle eastern war. so tom, i think we will go down. i know you were opposed to it, but most democrats support it. the barack obama, i think, will go down like the white eisenhower, a man who at the height of the cold war, when people were pushing him to get into vietnam, when people were pushing him to reckless interventions, avoided doing so, and we will look back kindly on history. hold on, mccarty. someone get the congressman. i have got to be here all night. go ahead. final words on this subject that we are, final words on what? on this subject that we have been discussing. look. you cannot just put donald in power and he will just pound the table and isis will go away. radical islamic extremism is going to be with us for a while. it needs to be managed. it needs to be gained. it needs to be driven down. even when you crush it, some of it comes out of your fingers. and in order to avoid putting ground troops in and losing thousands and creating more terrorists, you need a calm hand. that is what hillary provides. congressmen, thank you very much. we will get the congressman back. everybody else stay with me. much more to come. are you going to stay around? you are staying around. much more to come live from the scene and grow here in philadelphia. the democratic commission. do not go anywhere.