hillary clinton disavowing support from the orlando attack her father after he attended a rally this week, her rally, and saying she did not even know he was there raising more questions about just how to touch in her campaign really are to democratic countries for brad sherman on how this affects her as she tries to shift the focus to the economy. at the very least, sorry, you have to admit the optics are really bad and you are comments are just ridiculous. a deranged man sneaks into the bleachers that happens at every yankee game to the front seats. not the front seats well back anybody shows up. look, we are putting on political rallies the yankees are putting on a baseball game. do you think there could not be a deranged person in the front row of the bleachers? we are talking about a well-honed presidential campaign event. the yankees are a well-honed baseball team but they do not vet everybody's comes to the game. that is so intellectually dishonest with all due respect. you can come up with something better than that. this is absolutely ridiculous. you invite the public to come to a rally. the people who show up first get good seats. so, and nothing is rallying. there is nothing designed for the optics. i have seen rallies where the topics were women and there were a bunch of women in a background where the topics were minorities and there were a bunch of minorities in a background where the top. i mean, let us be honest about this. look, stop calling me a liar. the fact is that a political rally has been in the front row. you are saying for fact none of these, the people sitting directly behind the candidate are never vetted? in a bleacher situation and i hope you show the picture. we are assuming you have a number of people on the stage are vetted. but when you have a huge rally most of the time, you do not vet the people who are there. and i have had lots of friends get good seats at political rallies just by showing up early. i will tell you that you can be on stage. it is really scary that he is several seats behind the presidential candidate. well, that is why we have a secret service and you will remember that there was an incident they went after, where somebody went after trump. the fact is neither trump nor hillary can control who is in the arena. they both have huge arenas and the yankees cannot do it either. and that is why when we have these large events, we need to have security there. i guarantee it will not happen again for hillary clinton. i guarantee this accident will not happen again. i know that much will not happen again. i assure you that crazy people will sneak in to these rallies. not the well-known father of a mass murderer. i do not think that is going to happen again. if it does, we will say it will be some other deranged person. somebody, i mean, we could look at the thousand worst crimes that have happened this year. look at the parents of the people who committed those crimes. you or i could not pick them out of the lineup. those people can sneak into political rallies or yankees. it is a man who has thrust it himself into the public spotlight on more than one of these days. and people know that whatever it is, whatever his sickness is that perhaps he passed on to his son, he likes the limelight. now, the fact that no one caught him, i just say it is a big mistake for hillary clinton. now, that is the desperate line of a campaign in free fall, a campaign that flirts with david duke supporters and seeks racist votes and then tries to conflate that with who sneaks into the rally. if david duke was planning to welcome the support of david duke since you brought him up with standing at a rally with donald trump, you would lose the rest of your hair right now. you would set yourself on fire. the mainstream media would run with it and say donald trump knew it is not in the back of the bleachers at a yankee game or to be talking about yankee game. we are talking about political events for the highest office in the land that are highly concentrated and controlled. the world series is a well run event and there'll be a crazy person in the bleachers there. we do not have, when you have mass rallies, you can say, oh, it is the highest office in the land. the highest baseball game in the land will attract thousands of people. do you think that there is going to be a vetting? do you think there is going to be guards looking at the face of everybody who comes in? absolutely. you buy a ticket, you show up at the rally. there is serious vetting going on at presidential events and who stands behind the candidate and the optics of it. who stands behind or portray it in the live live? you are lying in the way you phrase that. stands behind or the ten people that you might put on stage to stand you behind a rally. standing in the, sitting in the bleachers or standing in the bleachers is the way you have got to describe it because you are, and because you are so desperate to support a deranged presidential candidate. a man whose narcissism and racism is so well documented that you are trying to complete the bleachers with the stage. i am going to just tell you right now, sir, all you are doing is making that candidate more sympathetic to the public who have not made up their mind just yet. that is all i am telling you. there are some things that have been very fair, some things that are not. are you kidding me? are you kidding me? the double standard would be more to say it was a mistake, but perhaps someone or her team should have caught this guy. the double standard is when you can insult john mccain, a hero, and not immediately withdraw from the race. the press has done a double standard aid to mccain because he is good rallies and he makes a lot of money. gold star parents insulted any other person in politics would be outright away. well, we will press some up because you are making money off of him. the news of the week and you gave your opinion and i do appreciate it. but i will make a wager with you. we will never happen again because it does not look good for the candidate and it is probably not safe for the candidate either. congressman sherman, thank you very much. we rely on metal detectors for safety in the secret service. thank you very much.