tom congressman brad sherman from california's best name city, sherman oaks. for 25 years i have served on the house for affairs committee, where i am now the most senior democrat. and i want to thank you for inviting me to participate in this webinar, protecting the lebanese people from conflict. it is an honor to be with bishop zaidan, and a pleasure to be with with kofiq who is been a good friend for many years. and whenever he suggests i do something, goes somewhere, or work on legislation, i cannot imagine a time when i have not agreed with him. i want to thank in defense of christians for awarding me the congressional champion award recently for my work of religious freedom, particularly in the middle east. i have fought for formal recognition of the persecution faced by christian communities in the birthplace of christianity of the middle east, whether that be the kofi christians, where i have confronted several different foreign ministers to presidents of egypt over the years, whether that be, of course, recognizing the armenian genocide, whether that be being the chief democratic sponsor of house resolution 1170, supporting the koptic christians in egypt, and calling on that government to protect the christian community. today we are focusing on lebanon, and particularly the lebanese maronite patriarchs call for a policy of peace, unity, and legality in lebanon. lebanon is facing a dire and worsening economic, political, and humanitarian crisis. people see that on the streets every day where the currencies dropped by 129 percent less than two years. furthermore, we are reminded often not only of the physical damage done by the poor explosion, but the damage that it is done to cohesion in the country and to the support people have for its institutions. then there is the blackouts, shortages, no doubt, no doubt there are many reasons for this crisis of faith in the lebanese government. according to an analysis by the congressional research service, which is our advisors are non-partisan advisors in congress. if the economic conditions continue to deteriorate, this could trigger a humanitarian crisis, both of existing syrian refugee population and the lebanese citizens. at a time like this, every leader in lebanon should say that the last thing lebanon needs is another crisis, an international crisis, on its southern border. what hezbollah has done is try to hone in and insert itself in what is basically a realistic dispute involving a dozen or so homes. i am an old los angeles lawyer. i have been involved in many real estate disputes. this case, it is an dispute over whether a dozen or so families need to pay rent or they do not have to pay rent. i have never seen thousands of rockets be used as a target in the litigation. israel has already endured over 4,000 rockets coming in from the south. it is hard to say that dozens or hundreds more coming from the north would have any different effect on israeli israeli actions. israel will defend itself. it will respond. but it is not going to override what its supreme court does for 4,000 rockets or 40 rockets. what hezbollah is trying to do is create civilian casualties. can they kill one or two israeli civilians? can they begin hostilities so that they can bring cameras to show lebanese civilian deaths? to deliberately create civilian deaths on both sides for political purposes is shameful. but it is what you would expect from hezbollah. this is after all an organization which is a terrorist organization and of course a proxy for a ran of the world's largest and most important state sponsor of terrorism. the united states has recognized hezbollah as a terrorist organization for decades. and our european friends used to have this dance where they talk about the hezbollah military wing and the hezbollah political which is simply absurd. it would be like a convicting a murderer's right hand while claiming his left hand was innocent. hezbollah is one organization. lebanon is now facing truly complex and serious challenges. the maronite patriarch has again called for a peaceful pass forward and has urged lebanon's leadership to adopt a logic of peace and the interest of lebanon and all lebanese. the us continues to support the lebanese people. i recently was a strong supporter of the appropriations bill which passed the house providing assistance to the people of lebanon and noting that the country's ongoing political crisis and instability means that america has to step forward to support the legitimate activities of the lebanese armed forces in combating the influence of hezbollah and other terrorist groups. i want to commend the patriarch. clearly what he has done is in the interests of the people of lebanon in the interests of the rule of law and clearly what he is done is courageous given the fact that a terrorist organization which has killed tens of thousands of people if not more are now implying if not stating that they have drawn a target on the patriarch. of course an attack on the patriarch is not just an attack on a man. it is not even just an attack on an institution. it is an attack on christians in lebanon and again the right of religious freedom for people in the least. the deepening crisis in lebanon is a call to action. the international community needs to stand with the patriarch in his call for peace and urging that lebanese institutions put the lebanese people first. i want to thank in defense of christians for convening this conference focusing our attention on these important issues. i am congressman brad sherman and i am very proud to stand with you. thank you.