my name is karen kenney. i am coordinator for the san fernando valley patriots here in the united states. and while i do appreciate that you have read the bill of 2000 pages, it is the 19,000 pages of regulations under the affordable care act that need scrutiny. that being said, when i spoke to your colleagues in the ways of means in june, regarding one of the key scandals in washington right now, what struck me as i watched your website and other congressional websites is that you have an opportunity here to be a voice for clarity regarding ethics, equal application of the law and transparency regarding all of these scandals, irs, av, nsa, all of them. and i wonder what is keeping you up to it. i thank you for thinking that i can play that big national role. i try to speak out on the right side. i guess our webpage could use a bit more up-to-date content, but in terms of speaking out on the issues i think are important. i think we are here and i am doing that right now. as to the nsa, i voted for the amash amendment. as for obamacare, i will take a minute on that. there is a lack of focus on how the system was deteriorating before the health care act was passed or the obamacare act was passed. the first, a couple of things to keep in mind. first, this whole controversy is not about staying well, which is probably more important than the kind of medical care you get. i would trade my right to go see a physician for the next 12 months if i could lose about 20 pounds. i have not done scientific work on that, but i bet you all that the 20 pounds is going to cost me more longevity than all the doctors i see in the next year are going to add to it. so we need to focus on being well rather than just health care. then on health care, it is the efficiency of the overall health care system. the prices just keep going up and up. so much health care is provided in the last six months of life compared to everything else. there are a lot of things about the health care system that ought to be improved. all of our political attention is on health insurance, which is just how to pay for it. as to the health insurance problem, before obamacare, we had a system that was unraveling in here, so i went unraveling. we had about 30, 35 million on a matured people. so they waited till they got sick and they went to the emergency room. and then if you have ever seen a bill from the emergency room, it is 5,000 is the starting point. then it goes up from there. so you send a $5,000 bill to somebody who did not have enough money by health insurance. they are not going to pay it. they cannot possibly pay it. so what does the hospital do? it writes off the bill. so now the hospital is stuck by five or 10 or 15 grand of uncompensated care. every time somebody comes to the emergency room does not have a car. so what do they do? they raise their prices on everybody else. now they ask for costs $11 instead of paying for the health care. what does that do? it raises the amount they charge to blue cross for those who are insurance. so what does blue cross and the other insurance companies do? well, they raise their rates and then what do they do after that? they say we just raised our rates to cover the additional cost. how about some profits? so they raise their rates a little bit beyond then. now you have employers and people do not see this because employers are paying 50, 80% of the cost. the employer gets to go, oh my god, it is looking at how the health care cost has gone up. so what do they do? well, many of the pay. but a few of them say, okay, we are just not going to provide health care. and so now you have 37 million people in employment. now you are uncovered. those people go to the emergency room. they get the uninsured coverage. the hospital paid has more people providing thousands of dollars of care for which they are not paying. they raise the price of the ask for the $17 per ask. blue cross and other insurance companies raise their rates so that they raise them again. more companies drop. that cycle was in full swing in 2000 and in 2009. it had we simply kept what we had. we could not have kept what we had. tell about the base. the that system was unraveling. the only way we are going to be able to provide health care for every american who has the right to show up on the emergency room is to make sure that everybody has coverage. i know. i am really a step we need to have to see. excuse me. i am a little bit of a ruck. and if. hey for every guy. and hello. hello. oh, the answer is no doubt. shut down for a get out. there is a little first amendment champion over there. this is our town hall. the people who should be speaking or those who are recognized for the floor. if somebody wants to speak at great length, they should put their own town hall. and i will do what i can with the commuter charter high school to give anyone else here their own form. you do not hijack somebody else's form. now let us so the point i am making is the system we had before was not just bad for the 35 million you did not have coverage. i did not bring any. so if you got from any had an emergency, you show up in an emergency room that is crowded with a bunch of people who would not be there. if only they had the coverage to go somewhere else. yeah. you have a hospital raising its rates dramatically every year. you have dramatic increases. and it is easy to say, well, i do not care about those 35 million people that do not have coverage. they are still on short. the way that system was going, it was going to be 70, 80, and a lot of people in this room that half coverage today and thought the old system was just great. even their employer was paying almost all the cost. they did not think it was that expensive. a lot of those folks would have found themselves among the uninsured. so the old system was not working. the new system has some bugs. let us go on to the next question. oh.