thank you mr. president. thank you. i am here to speak about the american energy and conservation act, which we will be voting on today. i want to thank what is more my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their hard work on this american energy and conservation act 2016. yesterday the senior senator from florida made some statements and i would like to address some of those. the senior senator from florida suggested that developing america's energy resources off the coast as incompatible or somehow conflicts with department of defense activities. let us be honest. let us just be honest. there is been oil and gas operations in the gulf of mexico for almost 80 years. through all of this activity industry and the united states military have been able to coexist. and as for future production off the atlantic. i personally sat with representatives from the department of defense to discuss this issue. their analysis showed that in a president obama's original atlantic draft proposed program, less than 2% of the acreage was recommended not have oil and gas development because of operations conflicts. now here sometimes as he said, she said, she said, he said, this is objective. mr. president, this is the dod mission compatibility planning assessment. regarding the outer continental leasing program for oil and gas from october 30th, 2015. and that is where that 2% number comes from. the american people deserve honesty. we should not mislead them. now the senior senator from florida can vote as he wishes. but again, department of defense operations is not an excuse. secondly, the senior senator from florida suggested that he is looking forward to working with the new administration, although he did not support president trump, he is looking forward to working with the new administration on behalf of the american people. again, let us be honest. if there is one thing that came out of this last election, is that americans want better jobs with better benefits. the last 8 years have been hard on working families. that is why they are desperate for these better paying jobs. it is fitting in that regard that we are voting on the american energy and conservation act. this has been studied and is said to incentivize the creation of 280,000 new jobs by 2035. the legislation is expected to trigger $194 billion in new capital investment in our economy, creating $51 billion cumulatively in government revenue for our economy. now let us be honest. if you are going to work with the new president, let us work on programs that will create hundreds of thousands of good paying jobs for americans who need those jobs, as well as revenue to address debt deficit and other issues in our state and federal government. now let us also be honest. if america does not develop our natural resources, the vacuum will be filled with the likes of iran, venezuela, russia, and cuba, cuba which would like to drill off their coastline. now the choice is either to create good paying jobs in the united states, off states like virginia and north carolina, are to forfeit those jobs abroad. by the way, the senior senator from florida gave the reason why senators from mid-atlantic states should vote for this. he spoke specifically about the billions of dollars in revenue that will come to states. he complains about it. if i were from virginia and north carolina or a mid-atlantic state, and i would say, my gosh, i get hundreds of thousands of new high paying jobs and billions of dollars to address our state's needs, i would be all about this. now there are different ideas about the future of energy in the united states, and this legislation does not discriminate. it includes language introduced by two democrats and two republicans, senator heller, heinrich, rich, and tester. this is a new legislation that streamlines the process for developing renewable energy on public lands and establishes the first ever revenue sharing paradigm for renewables. for those that say that we need to do something for carbon-free energy as well, this bill does so. the change would incentivize the production of 27,000 megawatts of carbon-free energy in land that the bureau of land management estimates could be provided for these projects. additionally, we bring offshore wind into the mix by creating the first ever revenue sharing for offshore wind. incinivizing the development of 4,233 gigawatts of carbon-free generation, that again, the bureau of land management estimates would be available for development off our coast. now some say they do not want to look at development off their coastline. this would be 50 miles out, at least in the case of the oil rigs, 50 miles out, your sight line stops somewhere around 25 miles at most, so this would not be seen by anyone who is otherwise enjoying a beach. this legislation makes investment in conservation projects across the country. we included another bipartisan provision that provides an estimated $807 million for projects that increase access to public lands for hunting, fishing, and other outdoor recreational activities. this provision was included in senator murkowski's bipartisan sportsman act of 2015, which 24 senators co-sponsored. the legislation makes investments in a variety of important programs important to western states, including the payment and loo of taxes program. the bill also restores the traditional 50 percent onshore oil and gas state federal share for production on public lands, which the obama administration had reduced since 2010 to pay for spending elsewhere. again, all of this a particular importance to western states. the american energy and conservation act of 2016 is supported by over 50 important stakeholder groups, including the national association of manufacturers, the chamber of commerce, the american chemistry council, the american petroleum institute, the western energy alliance, and the consumer energy alliance. all energy producing states deserve one more thing i should say. it has been suggested by implication by the senior senator from florida that we are trying to open up acreage off the coast of florida. that we are trying to open up acreage in general. we do not open up any acreage at all offshore in this bill. all this does is say that if a new president, president trump, decides to have al racantino shelf drilling, that there would be a certain model of revenue sharing. but we absolutely do not open up new acreage. again, that sometimes seems to be implied we need to be honest with the american people. all energy producing states deserve to share the revenue derived from energy developed both onshore and offshore. responsible revenue sharing allows states hosting energy production to mitigate for the historic and prospective infrastructure demands of energy production. just makes sense. need more roads. help those states build those roads. allow states to make the strategic investments needed to ensure for future generations the resiliency of the infrastructure and for the vital natural resources. i urge my colleagues to support proceeding to the legislation so the senate's voice can be heard on this important topic. let us be honest with the american people. this is about creating great jobs. it is about sharing revenue with states. it is not about opening up new acreage and is thoroughly compatible with the department of defense's mission to protect our country. thank you, mr. president. i yield back.