all right, welcome back everybody for another wednesday with shreeport mayor tom arsino. good morning. good morning. how are you all? we are good. good morning. my last my last sear sucker of the season. i like the sear sucker. do you have it in different colors like these? no, i just i just have this one. just a blue. okay. yeah, i typically do not wear it after labor day. so, so i this is probably my last my last go-round with the sear sucker today. well, it looks good. it is to get mine too. i have always wanted one. i love them. mm-hmm. they are nice. nice. they are good. all right, so let us talk about bill cassidy. us senator bill cassidy. he has been in town for the past couple of days. you have had an opportunity to meet with him about what he can do for north louisiana, shreeport, bozier. tell us you actually said that he called you right after you came into office. he was senator cassidy was one of the very first people who called me after i had taken office. and he he called and he called personally. he said, i would like to sit down and visit with you. he came to my office. i think within two weeks. wow. of my taking office and he said, i want you to give you this man's name, ron anderson, who is his person who handles infrastructure work. of course, senator cassidy was instrumental in the infrastructure bill. so, as a result of that, he is always looking for projects for the city of shreeport. and we are making a list to talk to mr. anderson and see about some things. there are several items that i have. i do not want to prejudice them by disclosing them, but we have got several large projects that we cannot get to that perhaps senator cassidy can help us get some money for. save the taxpayers of shreeport directly some money. will we be excited about those projects? you would be excited about some of them. some of them are the kind of thing that you know you have to do and cost a lot of money, but you do not see very much. right. okay. got you. so, you guys, were you intended to gun rally a couple of days ago? tell us about that and what the goal was. well, i think the goal of the rally was to rally the community to say we have a role in this and it is time for us to stop the violence and participate with the police, participate with mentoring young people, giving them something positive to do as opposed to a gun violence or some of the activity that they are involved in. so, it was a very effective means of rallying the community. there were 60-70 people that participated and i thought it was, i thought it went very well. speaking of gun violence and just violence, a lot of people and we saw this with the humor and harmony over the four days. there was no violent, there was no shooting. and so, people are saying it is because people had something to do. so, my question is, when will we see the red river district open permanently and not just for special events, giving folks something to do under the bridge? well, of course, it is open now, but the main thing that we need to do is to bring in some more tenants and that requires really kind of a critical mass and a mixture of tenants and i think we are moving in that direction. i think mr. jackson has made some investments and he will bring some additional activity down there and then we will be looking to fill up some of those spaces because people now know, hey, this could really work. we could really do this and that'll be about to do it. i also wanted to mention, since you mentioned the security, how effective a job our police department is doing this year, all of our major crime statistics are down including the homicides. now, to some extent, that is just dumb luck, but it also indicates that we are doing well. we have a clearance rate of almost 80%, which is very, very high. so we are doing a very good job. so i think the message is if you are out there and you engage in criminal activity, it is a very good chance we are going to catch up with you. mayor arsono, thanks so much. thank you very much. i appreciate it.