you know, last time i was here, i was able to say the donald trump won louisiana. this time i can say, so is bill cassidy. i thank you. you all sit. i just going to say a couple words. you know, earlier i thanked a lot of folks. and my family is with me. i thank my family. all is emotional. i speak about my family. but right now i want to thank the people of louisiana. what a privilege i have representing this great state in our great nation. and i just want to share with you just for about five minutes my feelings about that. you know, my family moved to louisiana when i was a year old. and my family moved about every two years. and then a friend of my dad who lived in river ridge called and said, jim, you can make money if you sell, if my dad was a salesman, you can make money selling to the people that work in those refineries up and down the river. and my dad moved down here. and we went from moving every two years to find a better life, to moving to louisiana and staying and having a better life. my brothers and i all went to public school. three of us graduated from lsu. i was privileged to go to lsu med school. this state has been incredibly good to my family. incredibly good. so when i went out to los angeles and met my wife or our medical resident, she is from alabama, but wanted to live in a better state. and so we came back to louisiana. we both started the charity hospital system. and i stayed there 25 years working for the uninsured, truly taking care of those who have preexisting conditions, teaching our medical students and residents to become the doctors we have today, doing public health programs, vaccinating children for hepatitis and flu to prevent them from getting those diseases. and i felt a little bit like i was giving back to the state that had done so much for me and my family. it was just a wonderful gratifying experience. but when i was at that hospital, wonderful hospital, incredible staff and some of them were here and some of them were watching. but you could not get my wife and left and go on into private practice. you could not help but notice that at the private hospital down the street, the facility looked a lot better. the equipment was more up to date. you are able to get the things for the patient that you needed that despite all our efforts in the charity hospital, we never could quite get done. and i thought to myself, what is the difference between these two hospitals? one was run by bureaucrats and politicians working for the state and the other, the patient had the power. if she did not like her experience, she went down the highway to another hospital. so everything was done to make sure that she liked her experience. the patient had the power. that brings us to today. we got two visions of the united states. one vision is where we, the people, kind of make their own decisions. and the other vision is where folks in washington, d.c. make decisions for us. i am for you. i am for us. and we can see how that plays out. there is one part of it that says whether you like it or not, we are going to transition from oil and gas. those two hundred thousand jobs in louisiana, those eleven million jobs nationwide, poof, they are gone. not because we do not need oil and gas. just because we do not think you should have them. i tell folks that green new deal really stands for good by oil and gas jobs. but when you say good by oil and gas jobs, you say good bye to that opportunity that brought my family to louisiana. that gave us roots. that gave us the ability to grow and change the trajectory of my family for just a long, long time. but we are told by the folks on the left, do not worry that the government will give you a guaranteed payment. you may lose your job, but by the way, we will take care of you. and that brings in mind the old quote, a government that can give you everything can take everything away from you. whether it is your job or whether it is your cash. i can tell you, i would rather have the job. i would rather have my own power as opposed to putting myself at the mercy of somebody who lives far away. amen. amen, sister. and so we can go from there. we can talk about health care. i am a doc. i worked in the charity hospital system trying to get health care for those who did not have. it means a heck of a lot to me. and their vision of health care is that they tell us what kind of insurance we have to have. and if we cannot afford it, we get fined because we cannot buy it. our vision of health care is that you choose the policy that you want. and that you have the power. and it is not profits going to insurance companies and pharmaceutical companies and hospitals and others. it is the patient who is taking care of first. as i like to say, the patient should be the reason for the care not an excuse for a bill. under our perspective, the patient should be the reason for the care. now, that is two different visions. and i can tell you, i proudly stand up for our vision. there is some other things going on though. coronavirus. you know, he could not help but notice that when nancy pelosi was trying to negotiate for a coronavirus package, whenever donald trump would come up and offer her more, she pulled back and asked for more yet. and the president went to 1.5. well, she wanted a little bit more. he went to 1.7, 1.8. and he started going into territories i was not going to vote for. he went to 2.2 trillion dollars. and speaker pelosi said it is not enough yet. and you got a sense that she just kept on pulling back. she did not want that deal. she wanted that issue. she did not want relief for people. she wanted something to campaign on. and so when republicans put up a package in the senate that would have provided for folks for over unemployed, taking care of those small business folks, more money for education to adapt to coronavirus, more money for testing, and more money for vaccine, every single senate democrat voted against it. democrats wanted an issue to campaign on, not a problem to solve. amen. now i will tell you, i am a problem solver. i do not go to washington to have something listed on my obituary that he was a senator. i went to washington to try and do something good for my state and for my country and for the citizens of both. and we are working out. i see beth meisel right there and the woman on my staff, kayla dolen, who is working with beth meisel, how can we get rural broadband? how can we get broadband into the rural areas of our parishes so that they can have telehealth? telemino health. their child can go to class and download a physics lesson real time. learn russian over the internet so that a family can live in a small town in louisiana as well as a big city and have the same educational, same healthcare opportunities. we are working with senator meisel on that. i see randall johnson there. let me just tell you a story. randall johnson brought a pharmacist up to washington, d.c. and randall said, you got to talk to this guy, bill. the guy talks to me, he says, i am a pharmacist. i have been told by insurance companies. if i tell a patient it is cheaper than cheap pays cash than her insurance deductible, i lose my contract. think about that. the pharmacists cannot be the advocate for the patient or else the pharmacists lose their contract. that is not right. we wrote a bill. the president signed it into law. all because the pharmacist from ham and came and spoke to me. that gag clause is now eliminated. i spoke to a guy in the matter, he goes, oh yeah. dr. prescriber, you are a blood thinner. i go and, um, it is $190. $190. but really, how much of i pay cash? oh, cash at 70. how come you did not tell me the insurance company said i could not? because of a pharmacist from louisiana, those gag clauses are now forbidden across the nation and that is the way representative government's supposed to work and that is the way i work for you. now i am like president trump. i am like, way off my script. but let me close with this. their agenda is higher taxes, more regulations and in a phrase less freedom. our agenda is lower taxes, less regulation and in a word liberty. now that is us. and my pledge to you and thank you louisiana for the honor of being reelected. but my pledge to you and to the folks watching is that i will continue to do my best to work for the people of this nation, to work for the people of our state, to make this state and a nation better for now, better for us and better for every american who comes in the future. thank you all very much. thank you. oh my gosh. oh my gosh. give me a kiss. thank you all. thank you.