corm call be initiated without objection. thank you. mr. president, i rise to speak about obamacare and the incredibly negative impact that is having on millions of americans. let us just speak about its impact upon the middle class. there is a recent article in the wall street journal, august 26, which spoke about how obamacare is pushing the burden of health care costs to the middle class. and it speaks about how deductibles have risen 256%, but mr. president, wages have only increased 32%. it also goes on to say how folks are spending like 32% more on health care, but they are having to cut back on groceries, restaurants, entertainment, clothing. everything else is being cut back as health care consumes more and more. now, the logical question is, if obamacare this was supposed to change, the president promised that premiums would fall $2,500 per family, why not? a good example, a physician friend i know, a neurologist in baton rouge, text me. she has a couple in her office, and they are paying $1,600 a month for insurance. they have a $10,000 family deductible. now, their middle class, they do not get a subsidy. so let us think about this. they are paying $1,600 a month, and they have a $10,000 family deductible. so, quick math, that is roughly $16,000 a year, plus $3,200, that is $19,200 a year, if my math is correct, then we had $10,000 for deductible. if they both get in a car wreck, and they are brought to the emergency room at the same time, and they have a series of x-rays, think about this. they will be out. they will be out. is it possible? $29,000 before they see benefit from their insurance. $29,000 before they see benefit from obamacare, which is supposed to hold down cost. now, these are statistics and anecdotes. let us speak in a different sense. let us speak about premium hikes. premiums are up 31% this year in louisiana, but they are rising as high as 67% premium increase in arizona, as high as 69% premium increase in tennessee, and that is consistent across the nation. as it turns out, there is one county now, which does not have any insurance company providing coverage, but there are many other counties in our nation, in which there is only one insurance carrier. now, i can tell you that the less competition you have, the higher costs will go. so as this continues, competition decreasing as insurance companies like etna, humana, blue cross, and some states are pulling out of the exchanges, we can expect these premiums to continue to rise. now, the situation we are in is that people are either going to be insurance poor, or they will be forced to go without insurance. and there is an incredible ironier, a bill which was passed with the stated, the affordable care act, with the stated goal of making health care affordable is becoming so unaffordable that people are going without insurance. and i think this will only worsen. up to date, obamacare has received about $10.5 billion, billion dollars in federal tax dollars as subsidies, but and there is a series of co-ops that were set up. the co-ops were going to foster competition. as it turns out, 16 out of the 23 co-ops have gone out of business. health expenditures are on an all-time rise, and these subsidies are going away. some of them have been ruled illegal by the federal courts. and so it will be only, it will be only the beneficiary paying the premiums. so despite $10.5 billion in subsidies, insurance companies have lost $2.7 billion, and again, if these subsidies go away, they are all illegal, then we can expect premiums to rise even more. now mr. president, i am a big believer that if you are going to criticize something, you should offer an alternative. i would like to point out that this republican and another republican have offered an alternative. we call it the world's greatest health care plan. and under the world's, and we have kind of a cheeky title to draw attention to it, but it is serious legislation. and under the world's greatest health care plan, we change the paradigm of obamacare. mr. president, if under obamacare the presumption is that government knows best, and that folks in washington can make decisions for folks in baton rouge or new orleans, lafayette shreveport or your hometown in pennsylvania or any other place in the nation, that someone in washington knows best and knows what to tell them, what they should buy, and therefore how much they should spend. under the world's greatest health care plan, we take the opposite approach. we assume that the woman in the household, usually it is a woman on a physician, i know this. usually the physician makes 95% of the decisions on health care and a family. so let us just use the feminine, that she knows best what she needs for her family. kind of a humorous anecdote to this. on the campaign trail two years ago, i had two different women speak to me in a very memorable way. one of them spoke about, she came up and she said, you know, she says, i am 58, my husband's 57. our two boys are 18 and 19. in less, my name is sarah, and my husband is abraham. we are not having more children. we do not need pediatric dentistry, and i do not need obstetrical benefits. but that is included in my policy. i am forced to pay for it, and my husband and i are paying $28,000 a year for insurance. another woman walked up to me from jefferson parish. my name is tina. i am 56 years old, i have had a history rectomy. and my husband and i are paying $500 more month for insurance, $6,000 more a year, and i am paying for pediatric dentistry and obstetrical benefits. i do not need these benefits, but i sure as heck would like to have my money. so washington making the decision that these two women in louisiana, but women across the nation, are paying for benefits they do not need, therefore paying for more, and by paying for more, have less to spend on other things they might need to purchase. for example, flood insurance in my state, clothing, restaurants, entertainment, a night out in their own state, wherever that state might be, they cannot make that decision. so under the world's greatest healthcare plan, we take the power away from people in washington, and we give it to the family. we allow them to choose the benefits they wish, those that they need, making the decisions between pocketbook and healthcare that they are uniquely qualified to make. by the way, we also do away with individual mandate. we know that individual mandate. it is the obamacare provision saying that you shall by insurance or the federal government will find you. under the world's greatest healthcare plan, we take all the money that a state would receive from the federal government for healthcare, and we allow the state to give a credit to each individual in that state who is eligible, and that would be most folks. and the state legislature would have the option to say that everyone in the state who is eligible is enrolled unless they choose not to be. unlike obamacare, where you have a 16 page online form where you have to get on and have your w2 and check it off, and if you do not have your w2 and you are a poor person, and you have to go to the public library for your internet access, and you go home by public transportation to get the right form, and then you take public transportation back, it is not gonna happen. but under our plan, you are enrolled unless you choose not to be. we expect to have 95 plus percent enrollment. now, we do not provide the bells and whistles and insurance policy of obamacare, but what we do do is give first dollar coverage. instead of a $6,000 deductible per individual, or a $10,000 deductible per family, every family will have a health savings account with which they have first dollar coverage. if they need to take their daughter to the urgent care center to have an earache treated, they have first dollar coverage. there is not a $6,000 deductible to work through. they have a pharmacy benefit, and then they have a catastrophic coverage on top. if they are in their car wreck, they are admitted to the hospital, then they will be protected from medical bankruptcy by that catastrophic coverage. another thing we do by giving power to the patient is we have price transparency. under obamacare, we have seen prices rise and rise, rise even more. part of the problem, the consumer has no power. she does not have the ability to know that if the doctor orders a ct scan for her child, that if she goes this place and pays cash, it is $250, or if she goes that place, it is $2,500. i pick those numbers, by the way. the los angeles times had an article a few years ago. they found that the cash price for a ct scan in the la basin varied from $250 to $2,500, and there would be no way that someone would know. with the world's greatest healthcare plan, the power of price transparency is given to that mom so that she knows where she can take the child for the best cash price and the highest quality and balance that with her budget. if the family wishes to really take matters into their own hand, each should they can put their family credits all together in a pool, they can buy a group policy for their family, they can give it to their employer as the employee's contribution for an employer-sponsored plan and buying into the richer coverage that employers typically give. i can go on, but if you will, the premise is, the premise i learned is a physician, that if you give the patient the power, she will make the right decision for her family, both for their health and for their pocketbook. unlike obamacare, which says, family, you are not as wise as folks in washington, we are gonna tell you what you have to buy, therefore what you have to pay, and if prices escalate even more, and you decide you can no longer afford insurance, we are coming after you to make you pay a penalty. that is wrong, i think it is un-american, but it is certainly bad for families. by the way, the principle under the world's greatest healthcare plan is what is called, in a word, i like to say, in a phrase, giving the patient the power, but the academic literature would call it the activated patient. someone who is now fully engaged in managing her and her family's healthcare, not only does that result in lower cost, statistically it gives you better outcomes. there is a physician congressman on the other side, and the house of representatives who tells the story of someone he worked with, they went to a health savings account, and the manager came up and said, dr. fleming, i do not particularly care for this plan, because it does not pay for my inhaler. and he said, well, your health savings account can pay for your inhaler. i suppose if it is not covered by your pharmacy benefit, but if you stop smoking, you do not need an inhaler. and he walked away not thinking about it. and then she later approached him and she goes, dr. fleming, dr. fleming, let me tell you, and he goes, you are right. he is thinking, what was i right about? i stopped smoking, i no longer needed an inhaler. so that is a personal story, if you will, of that which statistically is demonstrated if people become engaged in their healthcare. they are not only healthier, but they save money. under the world's greatest healthcare plan, we take that republican principle, believe in the power of the individual to shape her life and her family's destiny, and a much more positive way than you would expect from a bureaucrat telling you to be passive and to otherwise obey. now, i will return, mr. president. unfortunately, the president's health here of all the affordable care act of obamacare is crushing the middle class. with ever higher premiums, higher deductibles, higher copays, an inability to pay, becoming insurance poor, as they cut back on everything else to avoid paying the penalty for the needed health insurance. republicans have all for an alternative. one alternative is the world's greatest healthcare plan, and in our alternative, we give the patient the power. mr. president, i would suggest that that would be an important area of compromise, that we all see that given the patient the power, the individual american, the responsibility, is a better way to go. mr. president, i yield back. sir. mr. president.