今天7, let us go tom cheering... that is so good! oh, my god! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! woo! go! woo! yeah! woo! woo! woo! woo! thank you. thank you, thank you, thank you everyone. so, how about that we had? i think it was a win that we all hope for and maybe expect it, but perhaps a little earlier and bigger than any of us would have expected. i want to thank you for your support. most important, i want to thank you, the people of arkansas. i am humbled by your trust and confidence. it is a true honor to serve this state we all call home. every election is about a choice, a choice for the people. in this election, the people had a choice between two ways of governing and two ways of living. the choice about the equal rights that god granted us, but the declaration proclaims and that the constitution protects. a choice to live as a free people to govern ourselves freely under the greatest constitution and history. yeah. yeah. the people of arkansas tonight have made their choice. we have again chosen constitutional self-government, which allows each of us to flourish according his abilities and industry to live with the blessings of civil and religious liberty, to live as free men and women under law and to control our government rather than be controlled by it. throughout this campaign, arkansas told me they are ready for america to again be a great strong and prosperous country. we reject the pessimism and defeatism inherent in the other way of governing the centralizing and bureaucratic rule of presumed elites. this other form of government through taxing and spending and regulating now consumes nearly half the fruits of all our labor and all our savings. it intrudes on private life. every community, every business, every school, every person gets unwanted instructions from on high, from unaccountable and unelected elites. this other form of government always wants to help, but is always hindering. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. possibly six to eight, but constantly ends up constraining. we may gain some material security by choosing this other form of government, but under it there is no true security for anyone. that is right. because a government big enough to grant everything is big enough to take away. big thanks. that is right. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. yeah. in this campaign, in this campaign, i have contended that we choose this form of government. we will spend so much trying to make us all the same that we will all be in profit and poppaged and elevate the presumed elites further still. our country will be too poor to defend itself from enemies that multiply abroad, too difficult to protect our borders and provide opportunity to our citizens, and too sluggish to care for the needy and provide work to the able. but our canzans know that declines a choice and tonight we have resoundingly rejected. our canzans are free people, and tonight we have once again chosen a free government, one that is limited in scope, that is strong and confident in its rightful duties. we have chosen a government that aids our fellow citizens who are struggling without overwhelming them, for taking away their freedom, or everyone else's freedom in the process. our canzans have chosen a government that protects all the things that we hold dear and in common. our natural rights, the national defense system, a free enterprise built on private property rights, not special privileges. yeah. and the right to think our thoughts and speak our mind and prayer prayers and raise our kids according to our faith and our conscience. to do these things does not require a relentlessly centralizing bureaucratic administration of supposed to delete. in fact, it requires the exact opposite constitutional self-government. yeah. that is the choice that we have faced. this election was not so much about mark prior or about me, but about you, and about how we choose to govern and live as a people. earlier tonight, i received a gracious call from senator prior. i commend him for a spirited campaign, and along with every other arcanzans, i thank him and his family for their years of service to our wonderful state. senator prior and his family will be in my family's prayers, as i know they will be in your family's prayers. i also want to thank everyone who made this night possible. my whole team, for whom the hours were very long, but the pay was very low. but these great young people did not work for me. they worked for you and the people of arcanzans. so all our wonderful volunteers, all around the state who worked in these last hours, days, weekend, weeks, months, over the last year, wonderful women like betty daly and griffin and so many others who gave of themselves worked so hard and sacrificial for our campaign. and to the people of darnell and yelkami who supported me not just in this campaign, go over the course of my entire life. and i thank you, the people of arcanzans, for now bestowing upon me the privilege to serve you. i recognize that not everyone voted for me tonight, but the season for campaigning has ended. now we begin the serious work of governing to improve the lives of all our people in every station and season of life. i will serve and represent every arcanzans, democrat, republican, and everyone else. well, while i am a proud republican, you have elected me to represent arkansas in the united states, and it is parking saw who i will represent. and tonight this victory belongs to you, the citizens of arcanzans, to all the families who are struggling to make ends meet. to the workers and the businesses who are just barely holding on, to the young and the old, to dream and still believe america is the greatest country on earth, where all things are possible, i will work to make that dream a reality again for each of you. i will not forget that it was you who elect me to the senate and it is you who i will listen every day. of course, none of you will agree with every vote i cast or every word i speak, but as i have for the last two years, so i will for the next six. i will act upon my conscience, my judgment, my unbiased opinion, and explain my reasoning forthrightly and friendly. and while we may, on occasion, disagree, i firmly hope i will never disappoint. i know many of you are cynical about our politics today, sadly with much good cause. i will not promise to yield a planet to repair every broken institution, but i will promise to act with integrity in principle and to use politics as an instrument to unite us, not a weapon to the virus. together, i hope we can turn that cynicism into a traditional and healthy skepticism that recognizes men are not angels, yet also appeals to the better angels of our nature. i have served you before in distant lands where troops tonight bravely defend this free government powers. my heart is filled with gratitude for them, my old battle buddies, for my parents and my sister who have loved and supported me. for my wife anna, whose love sustains me and completes me. and for our beloved country, whose promise i will always cherish. whose blessings i will never forget. and whose call i will always heed. and especially tonight, my heart is filled with gratitude for you for allowing me to answer that call again. thank you all. god bless you.