friends and fellow delegates, my husband and i have raised two accomplished daughters who we taught, but my parents and grandparents taught me and my three sisters. my sisters and i were encouraged to choose the direction of our lives. we became a congresswoman, a sad-haumam, a filmmaker and a journalist, and lena and i taught our children that they could rise to even greater heights. they could become surgeons, ceos, supreme court justices, secretary of state, and even president of the united states. we did not teach our daughters that they were second-class citizens. with proposal after proposal, mitt romney and paul ryan want to make women second-class citizens again. we will not let that happen. as a fourth-generation coloradoan, i believe that our western spirit is an inspiration for what makes america great. westerners stand strong in our defensive individual rights and women's equality. in 2013, colorado will celebrate its 120th anniversary of granting women the right to vote, the very first state in the nation to do so. the achievements we have achieved did not come easily. many oppose the advance of women into new roles and responsibilities. they even opposed our right to vote. but working together, we have established our rightful place in our american republic. even today, though, there are still many battles to be won. mitt romney and paul ryan would have us fighting to defend old gains all over again. more and more in this economy, the women are the family breadwinners. we are managing our family budgets, struggling to pay health care bills, and facing the challenge of saving for college. we feel it in our paychecks when we receive only $0.77 for every dollar a man earns. president obama understands how unfair this is. that is why the very first bill he signed was the lilly ledbetter act to strengthen a woman's right to demand equal pay for doing the exact same job. but look what the romney ryan ticket would do. cut pal grants which make college affordable. repeal the affordable care act that finally prohibits discrimination by insurance companies when they charge women more than men for health insurance. the romney ryan ticket promises to slash plan parenthood funding that helps women get affordable cancer screening and family planning services. romney and ryan support the so-called personhood amendment that would ban many forms of birth control, would ban all abortions even in the cases of rape, incest, or to save a mother's life, ban in vitro fertilization which helps families have children of their own, and it would even ban embryonic stem cell research which holds the promise to cure so many diseases. but although these restrictions on women's rights are all republican ideas and even in their platform, my friends across the aisle now try to change the subject. it is the economy they cry and you know what? they are right. when they break the guarantee of medicare, it will hurt women and families right in the pocketbook. when they allow insurance companies to deny coverage based solely on the pre-existing condition of being a woman, it hurts women and families right in the pocketbook. when they take away the guarantee of coverage for mammograms, for cervical cancer screenings in the affordable care act, it will hurt women and families right in the pocketbook. and when they deny women access to birth control so that we can plan to have our children, it hits women and families right in the pocketbook. reproductive freedom means economic freedom. and that is what this debate is all about. in short, the romney ryan ticket would reverse more than a century of hard fought progress for women. mr. romney, mr. ryan, the women of america have a message for you. we are not going back. we are going forward. forward with the president who understands and dispends the rights and interests of america women. forward with the president who believes in economic opportunity, equal pay for equal work. forward with our president, barack obama. forward with our president, barack obama.