thank you but you left out the most important thing as well as all those other things. i am a cc tiger. i am going to come from cc at 1979 and i am always happy to come back to campus. i want to thank some folks. first of all i want to thank the colorado college and democrat. let us give them a big hand over to my students. second of all i want to thank the carnivore club who are over there grilling in this hot hot by their giving you some food. thank you for your time. so you all know that my friend, st. cinnator john worson, is being recalled over his courageous leadership in the colorado legislature. on making sure that we have passed responsible gun safety legislation in colorado. i am so proud of him but you might ask me, what on earth diana are you doing in colorado springs on a friday morning when your congressional district is denver? and i will tell you why. this recal election is of national importance. every eye in the country is looking at colorado springs and most particularly at this campus right now. and the reason is because this is the first time this has ever happened that state legislators who had encouraged to stand up for what is right, to stand up for safety and to stand up for our families. this is the first time ever that legislators like this have been recalled for their leadership and we will not let that happen. well we. now i am going to turn the microphone over to senator morse who has been working nonstop not just to protect his job but to protect the values for which we all stand. and i am so proud of you, john. i really am. you are just doing a great job. but the voting has started. the voting ends next tuesday and every vote counts. i do not think there is anyone here who wants to wake up wednesday morning and see that we lost this battle by three or five or twenty votes. it could happen. and so everybody here needs to do their part. how can you help? well number one, if you are already registered to vote here in colorado springs from the 2012 election, you can go down and vote. you will hear exactly word of vote in a minute. if you are not registered to vote in colorado springs and you have lived in colorado springs more than 22 days, you are a resident of colorado springs. what happens here matters to you as a colorado springs resident and you are eligible to register on the spot to vote in this election. colorado college students can and will make the difference in this election. and so you might have seen students cannot be seen throughout the campus asking you, please stand up for democracy. stand up for representative government. stand up for responsible gun safety and go and vote. you can go today. they can go tomorrow. they can go tomorrow. they can go monday and they can go tuesday to vote. it is not very far away. fans are standing by or you can walk and take your bite. so i want to ask you how many of you pledge to me, colorado college tiger, that you will go and vote. colorado college not going to give you guys a camera for a resolution raise your hands. but do not raise your hand if you are not eligible to vote. if you can help us do that, we can win this. we can preserve our democracy. and i want to thank you so much. i now want to turn this microphone over to my friend, state senator john morris, who is a fighter for justice.