less than a week and already president trump has reinstated the get mexico city gag rule, which basically says that organizations that provide family planning and aids treatment and so on cannot also provide abortions even with their own money. and so that is what that is going to do is jeopardize in a lot of these family planning programs around the world. and then and then tuesday, two days ago in congress, we passed a bill to basically vastly expand restrictions on funding for insurance programs that people pay for with their own money that might provide abortions. and so we think our work's going to come out, be cut out for us. the next thing we think will happen is they will try to defund plan parenthood again. and of course, plan parenthood provides wellness services, cervical and breast cancer screening, birth control and family planning to millions of american women. so this is going to be a big big fight. and i know these are issues that are that are near and dear to your heart. so what is the strategy going forward and trying to preserve what what you have built to this point? well, i think what needs to happen is is american citizens need to call their members of congress and they need to tell them how important family planning is to them and and plan parenthood and so on. i was at the women's march in washington, dc. there were over 500,000 people there. and i heard there were almost 200,000 people here in denver. so women really are watching this. they really are concerned about things like family planning and and and so people just need to raise their voices and let their members of congress know they care. and what are your thoughts as we talk about and there is a lot of talk about repealing obamacare? well, i think that the affordable care act has given insurance to over 20 million more americans and it is brought the cost of insurance down and it is given people with pre-existing conditions and high annual or lifetime cost of insurance hoped that they can be insured. it is really done wonderful things. if you repealed it then the congressional budget office believes that over 20 million people would lose their insurance and we just cannot go back to that. i had a listening session last night and i had 200 people show up at this listening session. people were telling heartbreaking stories about how they could not get insurance before. now they have insurance and how if they lost it how it would devastate their families and their health. is the idea of a blockgrantee feasible? a block grant in washington is just a code name for funding cuts. and if you tried to, for example, the republicans have said that they might want a block grant medicaid to the states what that would mean would be less money for states. states like colorado would then have to reach into their state budgets to have to pay for health care for poor people. while some states i am sure colorado would do this, the surrounding states might not. so many, many more low income people would flood into our state and take advantage of our system and also because of our state constitution and our budgeting the taper amendment i do not know how we would pay for all of this. so it is not feasible in your mind. it is not feasible. do you see anything within this administration with all of the changes that have been put out there that are salvageable in your mind as to how we can move forward? well you know i passed a really big bill at the very end of the last congress 21st century cures and it was restructuring the way we do biomedical research in this country. it was a 100% bipartisan bill. we passed it in the senate house with bipartisan majorities and i have been talking to my republican friends about the affordable care act and i said we could use that as a model for how we work on this instead of just ramming through a repeal of the aca without having a replacement in place and jeopardizing the health care of millions of americans. why do not we actually sit down together and try to figure out how we can fix the aca together. i have some ideas. there are some things that need to be fixed and i think we could do that. but apparently president trump and the republican majority in congress they just seem hell banned on repealing the aca and putting so many millions of americans at risk.