you know, this is a really important rally, but you do not need to me to tell you that. the banners that we see, the diversity of citizens and dreamers that we see here today, we all say the message. and the message is this. our city has a long history of welcoming immigrants from around the world with open arms and we are not about to stop now. this is a history that we are so proud of. most of the immigrants who live in denver have lived here most of their lives. there are friends in our neighbors, there are kids, teachers and their coaches. they are valuable members of our communities and none of them, none of them, ever, deserve to have to spend their lives worrying about if someone is going to take them and deport them to another country. especially our dreamers. as we just heard from alejandro, our dreamers are special. most of them came here at a very young age. they grew up here. they went to school here. they helped our community grow in countless ways. we have more than 800,000 dreamers across our country, including thousands who are right here in the denver area. and you know what? each one of those dreamers deserves the best we can give them in this community and this country. i want to tell you, instead of providing them simple protection, we should be providing them a path to citizenship. instead of forcing them to live in fear, we should be helping our dreamers to succeed. instead of ripping their families apart, we should be helping them bring their families together because that is what we do here in america. now i want to talk about maria who came here to the u.s. at the age of five. she graduated from cu denver and now she is studying to be a doctor or marco who went, who went to glowville at the age of three and went on to study at cu boulder where he was elected student body president. or marissa who came here at the age of nine, grew up in glenwood springs, graduated from fort lewis college and went on to teach spanish here in the denver area. these kids are not a threat to our nation. these kids are our nation. we better realize that. i am here for two reasons. number one, to tell this supreme court to do the right thing and to uphold daca. but beyond that, i am here to say it is been nearly six months since the u.s. house of representatives passed the legislation to protect these kids and provide them the path to citizenship, the dream act. and congressman crow, who is standing here, congressman neguse and congressman promutter, we all voted for and co-sponsored the dream act and we are so proud of that. but, like i said, it is been six months. we need to pass the dream act in the senate. we need to put it on president trump's desk. so it is two things we need to do. and with the lives of hundreds of thousands of kids now hanging in the balance, the senate's refusal to act on this bill cannot be tolerated anymore. now's the time to have our collective voices heard. we need to demand that the senate do what is right and we need to let the supreme court and the senate know we are not going to stop until this is done. so that is going to march. i want to thank you, mayor, again for having this wonderful event. and i want to thank my wonderful hometown and my community for caring about what happens to every single person who lives here. it means a lot. so thanks everybody. let us get going.