so, so the first time i actually ever stepped foot in this state was actually when i was stationed at fort lewis. and so had the chance to come and see the beautiful state of washington out there. and i just say having to follow ivan and andrea and the six graduates in the military, that is what we call an ambush. so whoever set up the schedule, i really appreciate that. and because again, you know, as we saw and as their stories illustrated, this is why this work matters. because what this work does, this work provides opportunity for many people who did not even know that that opportunity was even there. this work is essentially a sense of light. and it provides a new pathway and a new level of guidance to those who need and deserve a champion. that is why this organization matters. and that is why you are being here matters. it is because you are putting your flag in this sand. and you are saying, i am willing to fight for all the others out there. you know, when i first wrote the other westmore, i did not understand the way the publishing industry worked. so i did not realize at that point when i was writing it that when you pick up a book and you walk into a bookstore, you pick up a book, every book that you open, when you open up the book and you flip through the pages, everything you see on the inside of a book, that is what the author wanted to share with the world, those are the author's words, that is the author's intent, that is what the author wanted people to understand, right? every thing you see on the outside of a book, the cover, the title, the airbrushed author photos, the blurbs, all that kind of stuff that you see, right? that is what the publisher wants to share with the world. the publisher will legally hold on to those rights for a reason. and the reason they will hold on to those rights is because the publisher knows that is their only chance to market. so the publisher will make the author feel like they are part of the process, but frankly, the decision has already been made before the author even has to say, right? i did not know that. i thought publishers genuinely cared about what i thought. so they call me in to this room, this is about six months before the book was set to come out. at that point, it was just called untitled by wes moore, right? or so i thought, i walk into this room, there is a big oak table, they had all the marketing people around there, and they are like, wes, what do you think the title of your book should be? and i am like, you know what? i am really glad you all asked me because there is like six titles that i really like. and they are like, great, what are they? i was like, okay, what about baltimore's sons? what about all the difference? what about out of many? what about end of the innocence? or about life after death? and i started throwing these different titles out. and i looked at them and i said, so you can choose between any of those six titles because i am good with any of them. and they looked at me and they said, that is very kind of you. but we think we have a better idea. and they said, what do you think about the other wes moore? and i said, that might be the dumbest book title that i have ever heard in my life. and they said, what do not you like about it? i said, there is a whole bunch of things i do not like about it. but let me go ahead and start with three. the first thing i told my in like about it was i try to make it very clear that this story was not just about these two kids. it was not just about one street. it was not just about one neighborhood. it was not about one city or one demographic or one race or one socioeconomic group. it is about all of us. it is about the decisions that we make and tend to mount to that, the people who we have in our lives who are helping us to make those decisions. so i put in the name inside of the title of the book, are you not completely negating that entire fact, right? that is one. second thing, i told my in like about it. what self-respected author do you know that puts their own name inside of a title of a book that they have written, right? the other jk rowling, the other stephen king, the other james baldwin, the other, i mean, it sounds ridiculous. and the third thing i told my in like about it, i said, listen guys, no one knows who one westmore is. so why does anybody care who the other westmore is? and so i said this to him and they smiled and they's like, those are actually all really good points. and they said the problem though is that you are missing the point. because you are absolutely right, it is not about you. and it is not about him. the name is completely irrelevant. you can throw any name inside of that book title. it really does not matter because the truth is there are westmores that exist in every one of our communities. and in every one of our homes. people who are one decision away from going in one direction or going in a completely different direction. people who every day are straddling this line of greatness and the problem is they do not even know it. the most important thing about the title is not the name. the most important thing about the title is the other. the fact that our society is full of others. people who might not look like us, people who might not speak like us, people who might live on the other side of town than us or another part of the country than us. people who might come from a different family lineage than us. but people whose destiny matters as much as the long term safety and security and greatness of our communities as ours does. the others. that is who you all are fighting for. you are fighting for those who need and deserve that champion. that is what you all do. you do not just provide job skills. you do not just provide employment opportunities. you provide freedom. a freedom to dream and know that your dreams will not be laughed at. a freedom to have hope and know that your hopes are actually going to be supported by someone else. a freedom to know that you belong in every single room that you are in, no matter what room that is. that in essence is what made all the difference. and that was not about my physical location. it was about the people who surrounded me in every physical location.