we saw what they did to him. i saw something that donald trump did with the fight. he was a business owner. he was a man who loved the people. the american people in the american journey. that is what i mean. he got in the race and naturally they tried to take him out. iron man is donald trump's enemy. i am not saying you got a lot donald trump. but i am going to say it is one thing that is unique of this nation. he loves our constitution. he believes in our freedom. the freedom of expression. the right to bear arms is the second amendment. the one that takes all the others. yeah. yeah. donald trump in the white house. yeah. yeah. i think you will see a cleaning out. i think you will see a difference in what you see. yeah, it is hope. yeah. yeah. yeah. bring it up. bring it up. bring it up. he is going to ring it outside leadership. some of the best and brightest minds in the country. he is going to bring people to washington dc to run it like a fist. not like washington dc's been ran. but like a business. he is going to manage your money. he is going to guarantee your freedom. he is going to build that wall. absolutely. absolutely. absolutely. absolutely. absolutely. absolutely. i am your turn. i got to tell you this is a great turnout. the news yesterday was fantastic. i heard an early voting that trump is generating more turnout than trump. hunter spurars. spencer omg. there was too much fans of missouri hotel hospital and obama needed an late go. i do not know how many pair are up. cleared the way for four. öldings here are five left. yeah. i went over. lock her up! klokler up! black ثru! lucky derreaming bandpped. i went over. alright, we can handle your parameters. get it would equals. that is a ten-point swing in a way you see it, guys. go know mr. irvings. you all show up, you bring your fans, you vote. it is your nation's at stake. you all understand that the free court has taken our freedom to what? at what? it is definitely the time. one step at a time. we have lost our freedom through political correctness. it is a free court justice. i mean, you are right. you are right. i think our leaders in washington need a leader. in a sense that whether it is whoever you supported, if it is ted cruz or whoever that served it, and we send them watching these things, they could not stop obama's agenda. they could not stop it. they did not have a leader. i see those men united with donald trump and bringing conservative constitutional values back to this nation. that is going to make us great. that is going to make our nation great again. and one thing, chairman of the military and federal government, like i am, donald trump loves our veterans. and donald trump, that man respects our veterans. he loves our veterans. and we need to put somebody in a wild that will restore that respect for our nation, our constitution, and our veterans. the man who loves those men is the leader. but you all show up on november 8th. you all following me on facebook, i am doing, i am day 19. i am 30 days of prayer for our nation. join me. and let us win this nation back for this country, for our nation, for our people, for our children, our grandchildren. it is an important fight. you all engage with me. let us win this nation. and for you. thank you.