thank you very much. well, i want to thank you all very much. this is great. these are our friends. we have thousands of friends on this incredible movement. this was a movement like nobody's ever seen before. and, frankly, this was, i believe, the greatest political movement of all time. there is never been anything like this in this country and maybe beyond. and now it is going to reach a new level of importance because we are going to help our country heal. we are going to help our country heal. we have a country that needs help and it needs help very badly. we are going to fix our borders. we are going to fix everything about our country. we made history for a reason tonight and the reason is going to be just that. we overcame obstacles that nobody thought possible. and it is now clear that we have achieved the most incredible political thing. look what happened. is this crazy? but it is a political victory that our country has never seen before. nothing like this. i want to thank the american people for the extraordinary honor of being elected. you are 47th president and you are 45th president. and every citizen i will fight for you, for your family and your future. every single day i will be fighting for you and with every breath in my body. i will not rest until we have delivered the strong, safe and prosperous america that our children deserve and that you deserve. this will truly be the golden age of america. that is what we have to know. this is a magnificent victory for the american people that will allow us to make america great again. and in addition to having won the battleground states of north carolina, i love these places. georgia, pennsylvania and wisconsin. we are now winning in michigan, arizona, nevada, and alaska, which would result in us carrying at least 315 electoral votes. but it is much easier doing what the networks did or whoever called it because there was no other path. there was no other path to victory. we also have won the popular vote. that was great. thank you very much. we have won the popular vote. it was very nice. it was a great feeling of love. we have a great feeling of love in this very large room with unbelievable people standing by my side. these people have been incredible. they have made the journey with me and we are going to make you very happy. i hope that you are going to be looking back someday and say that was one of the truly important moments of my life when i voted for this group of people beyond the president. this group of great people. america has given us an unprecedented and powerful mandate. we have taken back control of the senate. under senate races in montana, nevada, texas, ohio, michigan, wisconsin, the great commonwealth of pennsylvania. we are all won by the magga movement. they helped so much. in those cases, every one of them we worked with the senators. they were tough races. i mean, the number of victories in the senate was absolutely incredible. we did teller rallies. we did teller rallies with each one of them. sometimes we did two or three for, and it was amazing to look at all of those victories. nobody expected that. nobody. so i just wanted to thank you very much for that. you have some great senators and some great new senators. and it also looks like we will be keeping control of the house of representatives. and i want to thank mike johnson. i think he is doing a terrific job. terrific job. i want to also thank my beautiful wife, melania, for slady. who has the number one best-selling book in the country? can you please? thank you. now she is done a great job. works very hard. works very hard to help people. so i just want to thank her. but i want to thank my whole family, my amazing children, and they are amazing children. now we all think our children. everybody thinks their children are amazing. that is a good thing when you think they are. but don, eric, ivanka, tiffany, baron, laura, jared, kimberly, michael. thank you all. what a hell. my father-in-law victor's tremendous. and we miss very much melania's mother, amalia. yeah, we miss amalia, do not we? yeah? she would be very happy right now. standing on this stage, she would be so proud. she was a great woman, that one. beautiful. inside and out. she was a great woman. i want to be the first to congratulate our great. now i can say vice president-elect of the united states, toby brown. and is absolutely remarkable and beautiful wife, usha bez. and he is a feisty guy, is not he? you know, i have said, go into the enemy camp. and you know, the enemy camp is certain networks. a lot of people do not like this. sir, do i have to do that? he just goes, okay. which one? cnn, msdnc. he will say, all right, thank you very much. he actually looks like. he is still like the only guy i have ever seen. he really looks forward to it. and then he just goes in absolutely obliterate step. say a couple of words. well, mr. president, i appreciate you allowing me to join you on this incredible journey. thank you for the trust that you have placed in me. and i think that we just witnessed the greatest political comeback in the history of the united states of america. and under president trump's leadership, we are never going to stop fighting for you, for your dreams, for the future of your children. and after the greatest political comeback in american history, we are going to leave the greatest economic comeback in american history under donald trump's leadership. thank you very much. he is turned out to be a good choice. i took a little heat at the beginning, but i knew the brain was a good one about as good as it gets. and we love the family, and we are going to have a great four years, and we are going to turn our country around, make it something very special. we lost that little thing called special. we have to make it so. we are going to make this so great. it is the greatest country, and potentially the greatest country in the world by far. and right now, we are going to just work very hard to get all of that back. we are going to make it the best it is ever been. we can do that. we just, if we had to wait longer, i do not know it was going bad, and it was going bad fast. we are going to have to seal up those borders, and we are going to have to let people come into our country. we want people to come back in, but we have to let them come back in, but they have to come in legally. they have to come in legally. let me also express my tremendous appreciation for susie and chris, the job you did. susie, come here susie. chris, come here, chris. susie likes to stay sort of in the back. let me tell you, the ice cream we call it the ice cream. susie likes to stay in the back, but she is not in the back. this was unexpected, but i just want to thank, obviously president trump for this journey. it was a great one, and he is a hell of a candidate. he is going to be a hell of a great 47th president, and this team that we had, the best team, and of course, even my boss susie wiles, the best. thank you. thank you, and thank you, susie. i have never seen her be shot before. susie, they are great. everybody up here is great. everybody up here is very special, but the trump, who do you say? oh, let me tell you, we have a new star. a star is born elon. now he is. now he is an amazing guy. we were sitting together tonight. he spent two weeks in philadelphia and different parts of pennsylvania. camp painting. he sent the rocket up two weeks ago, and i saw that rocket. i saw it coming down. i saw it. when it left it was beautiful, shiny white. when it came down, it did look so pretty. it was going 10,000 miles an hour, and it was burning like hell. i said, what happened to your paint job? he said, we have never made a paint that could withstand that kind of heat. but i saw it come down and turn around. and it was, you know, it is like 22 stories, though, by the way. it looks a little smaller than that, but it is big. and it came down and downed, and you saw that fire burning. and i am saying, only elon could do this. it must be an elon. and i told the story. i told it last night. i had a man on the phone. i had the screen muted. no sound. i was talking to a very important man. and that happens to be here. and that very important guy, one of the most important people. and i would say the country, actually. but, you know, i was president. and now it looks like i was going to be maybe president again. so i figured i could ask him to hold. so i asked him to hold. and because especially because you are going to be president again, they hold. so i took the phone down and i am looking at the screen. i am seeing this crazy thing that is going around and coming down. it looks like it is a crash into the gantry. and i said, oh, no. and i said, do me a favor. you might hold him for a couple of minutes. i want to see this. i thought it was a space age movie or something. i put the phone down. but i did not pick it up for 45 minutes. and he was holding. but this spaceship came down. and i saw those engines firing. and it looked like it was over. it was going to smash. and then i saw the fire pour out from the left side. and i put it straight. and it came down so gently. and then it wrapped those arms around it. and it held it. and just like you hold your baby at night, your little baby. and it was a beautiful thing to see. and i called elon. i said, elon, was that you? he said, yes, it was. i said, who else can do that? can russia do it? no. can china do it? no. can the united states do it? other than you know, nobody can do that. i said, that is why i love you, elon. that is great. and you know, when we had the tragic hurricane, helene. and it hit, in particular, hit north carolina. they were really devastated the water. this was a big water. as big as we have ever seen, water-hericated, built lakes out of nothing fields, became lakes. and the danger was unbelievable. and the people from north carolina came to me and they said, would it be possible at all possible for you to speak to elon musk? we need starlink. i said, what starlink? it is a form of communications. i called elon. and i will tell you what, he had, and it was very dangerous. people would die. they had no communication. all the wires were down. i called elon musk. i said, elon, you have something called starlink. is that right? yes, i do. what the hell is it? he said, it is a communication system that is very good. i said, elon, they need it really, really badly in north carolina. can you get a hear that there so fast? it was incredible. and it was great. it saved a lot of lives. he saved a lot of lives. but he is a character. he is a special guy. he is a super genius. we have to protect our geniuses. we do not have that many of them. we have to protect our super geniuses. i want to thank some of the people. you know, we have up here today. the u.s. open champion, he is fantastic. he is slightly longer than me. it is a little bit longer than me. yes, a little bit. bryson d. shembo is up here, someplace. what happened to bryson? where is he? bryson. oh, he was young. he is sitting balls. he is on the way. he is sitting balls. bryson. oh, look at him. he had a great, he is got a great career going. great u.s. open bryson. that is a fantastic job. and we also have a man dana white who has done some job. he is a tough guy. dana, so did ufc. and it came to me. you mind if i use your, nobody wanted to give me my rings because they said it is a rough sport, a little rough. and i helped him out a little bit. and i went and i said, this is the roughest sport i have ever seen. but i began to like it and he loved it. and nobody's done a better job in sports. and you know, he is a very motivational kind of a guy what he does. he gets these fighters and they really go at it and become one of the most successful sports enterprises anywhere at any time, doing so well. i would like to ask dana just to say a couple of words because people love to hear from him. nobody deserves this more than him and nobody deserves this more than his family does. this is what happens when the machine comes after you. what you have seen over the last several years. this is what it looks like. could not stop him. he keeps going forward. he does not quit. he is the most resilient, hard work and man i have ever met in my life. his family are incredible people. this is karma ladies and gentlemen. he deserves this. they deserve it as a family. i want to thank some people real quick. i want to thank the nell boys, aiden ross, theo vaughan, boston with the boys and last but not least, the mighty and powerful joe rogan. and thank you america. thank you. have a good night. that is a piece of work. now he is an amazing, he is really an amazing guy. but most of all i want to thank the millions of hard work in americans across the nation who have always been the heart and soul of this really great movement. we have been through so much together and today you showed up in record numbers to deliver a victory like really i probably like no other. this was something special and we are going to, we are going to pay you back. we are going to do the best job. we are going to, we are going to turn it around. it is got to be turned around. it is got to be turned around fast. and we are going to turn it around. we are going to do it in every way with so many ways, but we are going to do it in every way. this will forever be remembered as the day the american people regained control of their country. so i just want to say that on behalf of this great group of people, these are hard working people. these are fantastic people and we can add a few names like robert of kennedy jr. and he is going to help make america healthy again. and now he is a great guy and he really means that he wants to do some things and we are going to let him go to it. i just said but bobby, leave the oil to me. we have more liquid gold oil and gas. we have more liquid gold than any country in the world, more than saudi arabia. we have more than russia. bobby, stay away from the liquid gold. other than that, go have a good time, bobby. we are going to be paying down debt. we are going to be reducing taxes. we have weak and do things that nobody else can do. nobody else is going to be able to do it. china does not have what we have. nobody has what we have. but we have the greatest people also. maybe that is the most important thing. this campaign has been so historic in so many ways. we have built the biggest, the broadest, the most unified coalition. they have never seen anything like it in all of american history. they have never seen it. a young and old men and women, rural and urban. and we had them all helping us tonight when you think. i mean, i was looking at it. i was watching it. they had some great analysis of the people that voted for us. nobody's ever seen anything like that. it came from they came from all quarters union, non-union african american, hispanic american, asian american, arab american. muslim american. we had everybody and it was beautiful. it was a historic realignment, uniting citizens of all backgrounds around a common core of common sense. you know, we are the party of common sense. we want to have borders. we want to have security. we want to have things be good, safe. we want great education. we want a strong and powerful military and ideally we do not have to use it. you know, we had no wars. four years we had no wars, except we defeated isis. we defeated isis in record time. but we had no wars. they said he will start a war. i am not going to start a war. i am going to stop wars. but this is also a massive victory for democracy and for freedom. together we are going to unlock america's glorious destiny and we are going to achieve the most incredible future for our people. yesterday as i stood at my last stop on the campaign trail, i will never be doing a rally again. can you believe it? i think we have done 900 rallies approximately from the can you imagine? 900, 900 and one, something a lot of rallies. and it was sad. everybody was sad. many people said this is our last rally. but now we are going on to something that is far more important because the rallies were used for us to be put in this position where we can really help our country. that is what we are going to do. we are going to make our country better than it ever has been. and i said that many people have told me that god spared my life for a reason. and that reason was to save our country and to restore america to greatness. and now we are going to fulfill that mission together. we are going to fulfill that mission. the task before us will not be easy, but i will bring every ounce of energy, spirit and fight that i have in my soul to the job that you have entrusted to me. this is a great job. there is no job like this. this is the most important job in the world. just as i did in my first term, we had a great first term, a great, great first term. i will govern by a simple motto. promises made, promises kept. we are going to keep up promises. nothing will stop me from keeping my word to you, the people we will make america safe, strong, prosperous, powerful and free again. and i am asking every citizen all across our land to join me in this noble and righteous endeavor. that is what it is. it is time to put the divisions of the past four years behind us. it is time to unite. and we are going to try. we are going to try. we have to try. and it is going to happen. success will bring us together. i have seen that. i have seen that. i saw that in the first term. when we became more and more successful, people started coming together. success is going to bring us together. and we are going to start by all putting america first. we have to put our country first for at least a period of time. we have to fix it. because together we can truly make america great again for all americans. so i want to just tell you what a great honor this is. i want to thank you. i will not let you down. america's future will be bigger, better bolder, richer, safer and stronger than it has ever been before. god bless you and god bless america. thank you very much. thank you very much. thank you. thank you. thank you.