yes. so, did you look at it? did i lose the bat already? well, we are still trying to verify it. well, i, you know, i would practice a little half. i will give you a few. people know that every year i do new year's eve. you do? and december 30th and maui and, and, uh, honolulu and mike, and on the vacation one year, this year at saras loverman and larry miller are on the trip with me. it is going to be fantastic. it is great. so get your tickets now. see, i turned that into a plug. okay. here are the questions. christopher, do you feel networks like msnbc, which are used to work for and use work for? help or hurt progressive causes? uh, overall, i think msnbc in the trump era has done real damage to the left and i will be why. and i say that with love. i mean, these are my former colleagues, friends, right? disfrontal former employee. no, no, that is right. that is a deal. no, i mean, look, a russia story and what happened there was important. but it was not all important. and they went so far in the realm of conspiracy theorizing, i mean, they had jonathan cheydon. well, it was a conspiracy. but they had jonathan cheydon to talk about how trump may have been a russian plant since 1987. he may have been. this is ridiculous. okay. this is way out from what journalistic facts said. and it is to the exclusion of other stories that people actually care about, about health care, about trade, about the future of their lives. automation. and so, you know, the people who are in the right place are real. and they do not get focused when you only look at one thing. so, yeah, they built up expectations so much that when the report came to help, you were like, oh, it was no big deal. i agree. it was like anything short of key tape was nothing, right? well, the person who shit the bed was robert mueller. he cannot even go after the taxes seriously. that is your investigative technique. do not follow the money. why did we put our faith in the republican? he is a republican. that was the mistake on msnbc is making him into this hero. this hero and shit the bed. he did the campaign manager, the deputy campaign manager. he let trump off the hook. he took a memo, a fucking memo, not a law, not in the constitution. just a memo. we did a whole thing on this. remember that night? right after it came out, and he spoke, and i agree with you. but he laid it on a platter for congress. he just kind of hit trump. he did not have to sit down. he is got the taxes. the legal genius of rudy giuliani was able to protect trump from being interviewed by the prosecutor. exactly. i mean, the whole thing is the taxes. the reason why he may be a russian asset, in this case the worst businessman ever. so at a certain point, the only people who give money are the russians. that is, you know, but mueller did not establish collusion per se, because that is a technical term. he showed clear coordination between the campaign and the other. i think he did his job. could he have done more short? did he do enough? absolutely. but here's a bit of a fuck to that. and then it comes back to msnbc, where it was so overhyped, and they are not alone, right? there are plenty of people who were involved in the overhyping of this. but then what he did find, but facts, were not enough for a public that expected, like barry said, that they were going to get the p-tap. my quick take on all of it was, everything everybody said is absolutely right. but here's the rub at the end of the day. the democrat in congress, the media allowed the attorney general to come out and define the narrative before the report was put on the table. yes. so at that point, folks, it did not matter what was in the report. that is right. because we were told there is nothing here. and the report was still hard to follow. what is this bullshit about, like, we did not find that, but it is like, just tell us, okay, fernand, what is the secret to democrats winning florida in 2020? oh, good, cute. do not run bernie sanders as the democratic nominee. there is a socialist in that state where there is no traction there. the democrats need to do what barack obama did in 2012. go after the hispanic vote now, start turning that vote. that is the swing state. if they do that, they will take those 29 electoral votes with them. who, quick quiz, which of the democratic candidates polls best with hispanics? number one, with hispanic. bernie sanders. bernie sanders. that is right. i do not know florida, paul. you may be right about florida. but you are a little bit more. there is a lot of cupens and there is this tape of bernie complimenting fidel castro. not really on castro. he was really, i think, for nance parts. you have got to remember how we elect the president of the united states now. and i know it is frustrating for a lot of folks, but florida is important in terms of what you are saying. yes, hispanics, you know, you can find me a poll that says hispanics support the president of bernie. i like when you promise it. when you want to proceed, they say that. at the end of the day, we do not elect the president nationally. so i tell people all the times, do not pay attention to the national polls. play attention to what is going on in the various states. right. that is what trump did. that is not what hillary did. she focused on the big national picture that said she was going to win by this huge number. and he went in and he chipped away because he knew what the electoral number was. he had to get florida and texas are key states in this upcoming election. and by 2024, and i am on the record saying this, the democrats will have their nirvana because republicans could potentially have lost, i mean, make it purple on a good day in texas. and so that is going best in texas in the most recent poll. and then you are going to be the first. i am going to be the first to say. i am going to be the first to say. the number one with trump nevada is not going. when that one goes out of nevada, nevada is the third of the primary caucus states in february. right. number one bernie sanders. okay, let me ask you this. absolutely. yes, but i believe that about the top four or five, they could beat him, but hillary beat him. and we need to crush him. right. just beating trump is going to be good. well, you got to pay attention to the electoral match because that is where you are going to win. exactly. i am going to win with the national strategy. and that is four states. nevada is not one of them. it is florida. it is right now. it is florida, wisconsin, michigan, and pennsylvania. those are the magic four. and how do you win western? how does bernie sanders want to be the best of the country? because he won it by losing michigan, wisconsin, pennsylvania. right. so we need to focus first on those three. and bernie won the michigan primary. bernie won the wisconsin primary. that was just democrats voting. yes, but they have he actually. the people he will not even identify as a democrat for crying out loud. that is what he said. that is what he said. that is what he said. let us say that there are a lot of democrats running for democrats. paul, let me ask this question of our republican friend here. because this audience, even though 90% of republicans are friendly behind donald trump, we only see never trumpers. we see people like you on tv and nicole wallace and steve schmitt. and we know that the roster. and you are a never-trumper, right? you do not want to break it. no, i do not cast for myself. i am a republican. and as i say to folks, look, i have been in this party for 41 years. so you could vote for trump? no. that is a never-ending. that is not it. that is not it. that is not it. it is not in that sense, you know, saying, oh, you know, because i will tell you why. i will tell you why. and this is important. this is important. because you wanted to play in that political game when you start creating these kinds of labels. if you are not standing to your point, michael, if you are not standing for something, which is what you just, you just saw the exchange. bernie sanders is a socialist. or he is not claiming he is a democrat. and you are like, yes, that is a good thing. when you start using the labels, that works to the advantage of your opponents. so the whole, if you go back and study what happened with the never-truck narrative, right? trump reveled in that. what he does not like is someone who stands there and says, listen, son of bitch, this is how this is. i believe in these things. okay. because of the things i value. that is the fight. okay. so you would not ever vote for trump? no. okay. so even if bernie sanders vote for him. okay. so my question is, what do the never-trumpers do? what do they say? the people on msnbc who have gone very far left, because look who is giving them their paycheck. what do they say if it is bernie sanders or elizabeth warren at the top of the ticket? do they never trump? would they vote for him? so would nicole wallace vote for... they vote in mike bloomberg. they write in mike bloomberg. they write, they... well, that is a bullshit. but i honestly, that is what people said. yeah, it is all right. yeah, it is all right. and it was the same thing. it was all wrong. what did we have to vote for? i do not know. but that is partly true. and some will vote for him. there are a lot of folks like nicole and joe scarborough and others who very say, look, i will vote for the dog in the car. but that is what the democrats nominated. what is it not that they are like five people? what? this is the never-traum... i mean, i am just... i know, i am just... i know, i am just immune because i see them on msnbc. and i remember how they used to talk when they were talking... they were talking about the russian romney. they did not even want a barba care. but let us be clear. you are identifying the people that you see on television or read about the newspaper. trust me. there is a much larger network of folks out there. and this is the rub that gets into the core of what the democrats have to do this next november. is how do you make the argument to a center-right republican or independent candidate? i mean, a voter? to get them to support your candidate, your agenda. because someone like me, i do not... i cannot separate... i say, well, just because you are the candidate who is not trump, i am all in. i also need to take value and stock of what it is you are going to do. so to bill's point in your discussion earlier, it matters to me when you say you are going to take away my private health care. it matters to me when you say we are going to open up the borders and give you... that is not what the president is saying. that is not what the president is saying. that is going to be paid for. it is like taxes, like in every other civilized country. you are going to get a lot of things if bernie is your... i do not really... and you are really giving me stuff like that because it is... but i am afraid you will miss someone's idea that the government... you see that the government... can you pay your taxes? but you have such faith in the government. the u.s. government... yeah, i agree. can you really take over? i do not know. where would government take... the faith in the corporate markets. i mean, medicare is far more efficient. medicare is far more efficient than the private health insurance. no, no, no, no. we do not have a demand for the key because... i am not a corporation. but there is something in between. i mean, elizabeth warren always talks about the insurance companies. that is somewhere most of the money. it is the hospitals. thank you. somebody has to stop the cow. but it is the profit motive in healthcare, which incentivizes my... but... thank you for educating us. sickness is what our profit motive is. but the fructicality of the money... the u.s. government taking over a six of the economy. and it is... i just do not have that kind of... we just do not have that kind of... we just do not have that kind of... because they already do it. they take over... they do the police force, the fire department, the libraries, the public schools... the military... the military... talk about a percentage of the economy... post office. post office. the government does push up a son... and they might be some pretty good job of it. as long as if it is the government of foreign by the people. if it is the government of the corporations where their corporations are people... that is what we get through. that is what we have got right now. and we need... look, let us go back to the thing we all agree on... that we have to defeat trump. if that is job one, that is going to happen. we have put up a street frighten woman or a street frighten man... that is going to bring him down. otherwise, he will make men's meat of the wrong democrat... during the campaign. and we cannot let that happen. okay. we have got to go. thank you very much, everybody.