[congressional record volume 170, number 107 (wednesday, june 26, 2024)] [house] [pages h4167-h4208] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] {time} 1115 department of homeland security appropriations act, 2025 general leave mr. amodei. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to include extraneous material on h.r. 8752, and that i may include tabular material on the same. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from nevada? there was no objection. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to house resolution 1316 and rule xviii, the chair declares the house in the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the consideration of the bill, h.r. 8752. the chair appoints the gentlewoman from iowa (mrs. miller-meeks) to preside over the committee of the whole. {time} 1115 in the committee of the whole accordingly, the house resolved itself into the committee of the whole house on the state of the union for the consideration of the bill (h.r. 8752) making appropriations for the department of homeland security for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2025, and for other purposes, with mrs. miller-meeks in the chair. the clerk read the title of the bill. the chair. pursuant to the rule, the bill is considered read the first time. general debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 1 hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of [[page h4168]] the committee on appropriations or their respective designees. the gentleman from nevada (mr. amodei) and the gentlewoman from illinois (ms. underwood) each will control 30 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from nevada. mr. amodei. madam chair, i yield myself such time as i may consume. i thank the chairman of the full committee, mr. cole, for his leadership throughout the fiscal year 2025 process and his support as we continue to take conservative appropriations bills to the floor. i also thank the ranking member of the full committee, ms. delauro, and the ranking member of the subcommittee, ms. underwood, who worked with us in good faith on the bill despite some disagreements on policy. i thank them for the opportunity to kick off this appropriations season, if you will, and i am looking forward to getting started here. lastly, i express my gratitude to the staff on both sides for their tireless efforts. as we all know, without them, this would be a pretty tough thing and a much different thing to do. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. madam chair, i yield myself such time as i may consume, and i rise in opposition to the majority's homeland security appropriations bill for 2025. first, i want to start by acknowledging the hard work of those who are serving on the front lines at the department of homeland security. they are making sacrifices every day to protect this country, and i am committed to recognizing that. many of the policies i pushed to have included in the bill acknowledge both the challenges and obstacles these men and women face. for example, today's bill includes key priorities that focus on expanding employee wellness and suicide prevention programs, including funding additional wellness centers that build upon the successes of the el paso pilot, providing resources to increase accountability at the coast guard as we work to protect cadets from sexual harassment and assault, and improving access to contraceptives for coast guard servicemembers and their family members. however, despite these silver linings, the fiscal year 2025 homeland security appropriations bill put forward by republicans falls short of addressing our country's real and urgent needs. the legislation not only increases funding for inhumane, costly, and ineffective responses to the humanitarian crisis at our border, but it also cuts $2.1 billion to border security operations, including the complete elimination of the shelter and services program and the critical resources our u.s. border patrol agents need to secure the border. let me be clear: eliminating the shelter and services program will not stop migration. it will only prevent communities from managing surges humanely and safely, ensuring chaos and desperation across our country. the bill also guts funding for refugee and asylum programs and even includes a provision that would cut over $300 million in fee funding for the asylum program. the proposed cuts to the asylum program would only further overwhelm our broken immigration system and ensure that more people are released from dhs custody without legal status. that outcome is not good for anyone. the funding choices made by the majority in this bill will result in more people being released into the interior while they likely wait years for their case to be decided. the disappointing truth is that this bill doubles down on outdated, ineffective border strategies that ignore reality and will waste billions in taxpayer dollars. these ineffective policies will leave our communities exposed to humanitarian crises without the resources necessary to respond. with this bill, house republicans are turning their back on u.s. border patrol agents and the critical funds they need to maintain safe and humane facilities. the failures of this bill continue. this bill also underfunds critical cyber defense programs, leaving americans vulnerable and unprepared to deal with cyber threats at a time when our schools, hospitals, and critical infrastructure are under constant attack. in the face of threats of terrorism and violent extremism that have been highlighted by both the prior and current administrations, this bill eliminates funding for the center for prevention programs and partnerships, eliminates funding for the targeted violence and terrorism prevention grant program, cuts funding for the countering weapons of mass destruction office, and includes statutory restrictions that would prevent the department from taking the important actions needed to reverse the alarming trends we see in violent extremism and terrorism. if passed as written, this bill would leave our communities with nothing to address some of the most urgent threats we are facing across the united states. this legislation reflects a missed opportunity to work in a bipartisan manner to prioritize the needs of our nation, respond to existing and emerging threats, and address the concerns americans have expressed about our immigration system, national security, climate change, and more. the challenges our country faces cannot be overstated. we are living in unprecedented times, and the american people are looking for congress to set aside partisan politics and do the right thing. unfortunately, this bill misses the mark and ignores our country's most pressing needs. that is why i cannot support it in its current form. earlier this week, president biden issued a statement confirming that he would veto this bill if presented with it. we must do better and work collaboratively on a bill that would meet the real and urgent needs of our nation. in its current state, this bill does not do that. madam chair, i urge my majority colleagues to abandon this partisan theater and work with democrats to produce a bipartisan bill that puts people over politics and funds the priorities that will keep our country safe, healthy, and prepared to face the challenges with resolve. madam chair, i urge a ``no'' vote on this bill, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. amodei. madam chair, i continue to reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. madam chair, i yield 6 minutes to the gentlewoman from connecticut (ms. delauro), the distinguished ranking member of the appropriations committee. ms. delauro. madam chair, i rise in opposition to the republican majority's homeland security appropriations bill. first, i wish to thank the subcommittee staff in the majority and minority for their efforts, especially bob joachim and shannon mccully. i also thank the ranking member for yielding time. this homeland security bill fails to secure the border and instead stokes chaos and disorder, wasting hundreds of millions in taxpayer dollars along the way. the house majority has rejected every serious legislative effort to address and lessen the crisis at the border. they rejected one of the toughest bipartisan border bills in history that had a viable path to passage, pronouncing it dead without any debate. when the president asked for additional resources to secure the border, my colleagues across the aisle ignored that as well, even after they told us that we had to ``take care of our border first'' before we could provide any funding to ukraine and our other allies. madam chair, we provided the necessary funding to our allies, for which i am very grateful, but we failed our responsibilities to give border patrol agents and other law enforcement the resources needed to manage the crisis at the border and to stop our communities from being overwhelmed by a disorderly and outdated immigration system. democrats were ready to consider the bipartisan solution that had been reached by the united states senate negotiators, but at the eleventh hour, it was the other side of the aisle that insisted that it could no longer support securing our border as part of the national security package. they would not even let us debate the bill. let me point out what policies the majority rejected and left on the table: one, establishing a border emergency [[page h4169]] authority to shut down the border when our system gets overwhelmed; two, ending the widespread releases of recent border crossers by establishing and funding noncustodial government supervision for those eligible to remain and a rapid consequence system for those who are not; three, closing loopholes in our asylum system that are exploited by criminal cartels; four, funding 50,000 detention beds; five, funding additional agents and officers for customs and border protection; and the list goes on. that bipartisan legislation was supported by the national border patrol council, which is the border patrol agents' own union, the chamber of commerce, and the south texas alliance of cities. as far as being serious about solving anything at all, the bill before us is simply a facade. in the midst of a crisis situation at our southern border, the majority's bill cuts border security operations by $2.1 billion. it is a 25 percent cut from fiscal year 2024. are they serious about border security when they cut $2.1 billion? the bill wastes taxpayer money on impractical border measures and ineffective barriers. this bill withholds the resources needed to manage the border, to process and vet the increased number of people arriving in the united states, and to support border communities and cities that are receiving migrants across the country. why would we not want to help our border communities and our cities, the very places in our districts confronting this crisis? this is a missed opportunity to support humane pathways and processes for people who require and are legally entitled to refuge in our country, and it is a missed opportunity to reinforce our security, our preparedness, and our response capabilities. the majority's bill weakens our national security with inadequate cyber and infrastructure security investments and by failing to counter extremism. the bill specifically restrains the government's ability to counter disinformation campaigns, which are being used by global adversaries and foreign actors seeking to undermine our elections. the majority's homeland security bill once again includes dozens of pointless and cruel policy riders that harm women, divide americans, divide the congress, and create chaos. we all know the final funding bills will require bipartisan negotiations to make sound investments, but the majority's process is driving congress toward further chaos, dysfunction, and shutdown threats. madam chair, i ask that the majority please reconsider the path they are on. when they do, i look forward to improving this bill so that we can manage our border responsibly and invest in programs that make our country more secure. it is time for the majority to govern. madam chair, i urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on this bill. mr. amodei. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. madam chair, i yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from florida (ms. wasserman schultz), the distinguished ranking member of the military construction, veterans affairs, and related agencies subcommittee. ms. wasserman schultz. madam chair, i thank the ranking member for yielding and congratulate her on presenting her first appropriations bill on the house floor. we are all behind her. i rise in strong opposition to the republicans' fiscal year 2025 homeland security bill, which neglects the real threats that we face from anti-semitism, extremism, and domestic terror, and promises to throw our southern border into chaos. after walking away from a robust, bipartisan border security deal all to pander to donald trump, the gop has finally offered up its alternative. since this is nothing more than a messaging exercise, i want to make sure my constituents get the message. republicans are slashing resources for border management and immigration processing. they are hanging border communities out to dry by defunding shelters and services. they neglect the founding mission of the department of homeland security by eliminating terrorism prevention funds. you just cannot make this stuff up. this bill also rolls back successful biden administration policies like family reunification and humanitarian parole. worse, it doubles down on ultra-maga policies like separating children from parents and racial profiling, and it inflicts cruel bans on reproductive healthcare. as a senior member of the appropriations committee, i led democrats in committee, demanding full funding for critical programs like nonprofit security grants, which defend our communities against surging anti-semitism and hate crimes. in the months following october 7, harassment, vandalism, and assaults against jews increased by over 360 percent, with nearly 9,000 documented examples across all 50 states. federal hate crime investigations shot up by 60 percent since then, and the majority of cases involve threats against jews, who comprise just 2 percent of the u.s. population. {time} 1130 every single republican member voted to waste that money on a useless border wall instead, which mexico still is not paying for, by the way, rather than protecting their jewish constituents. this bill is more concerned with protecting the reputations of extremists who spread anti-semitic disinformation than it is with protecting the lives of jewish americans. that is shameful. we know the result of failing to provide these spaces with the protection they need. communities of all faiths have been devastated by hateful extremists. we must direct our limited homeland security resources against real threats we face, not toward some fictional invasion or against women's reproductive healthcare or against rainbow flags or providing political cover for your convicted felon ringleader. madam chair, i urge my colleagues to reject these political games and get serious about funding our immigration system and securing our communities against extremist terror. mr. amodei. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. madam chair, i yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from hawaii (mr. case), a member of the appropriations committee. mr. case. madam chair, i rise in opposition to this measure as it is presented to us. i truly regret that as a member of the subcommittee, i cannot support this bill today, as it does include several bipartisan measures that do deserve our support. perhaps the best example of this is the $14.2 billion provided to the coast guard, an increase of $1.3 billion over the last fiscal year. this funding does reflect the hard-earned recognition of the coast guard's unique role and capability in defending american priorities and advancing our engagement in the face of geopolitical competition, especially in the indo-pacific. the $60 million proposed by the bill will allow the coast guard to base another medium endurance cutter in the pacific. the $1.2 million provided for the coast guard's indo-pacific workforce project, and other report language and funding provisions for their expanded presence in the pacific islands region, are encouraging to see, and they do demonstrate that we can work in a bipartisan manner to get things done. despite some sound decisions here and there in other parts of the bill, it remains riddled with misguided avoidance and other priorities that i cannot support. nowhere is this more evident than in its treatment of the overall subject of immigration in general and securing our border in particular. the department of homeland security, which has been so vilified by many of my colleagues over the last months and years, needs and is entitled to our support to administer existing laws. yet, this bill fails to address the wide range of needs that it is mandated to discharge, and to anticipate and set up and advance a realistic discussion of our immigration policy in general and border security in particular. here are three examples. first of all, the bill strips $300 million from the asylum program, gutting the department's ability to address acknowledged and real case backlog and keep pace with new arrivals at the border. we all know that the reality of the border today is largely related to, i believe, required changes in our immigration [[page h4170]] and asylum policy. this bill does not allow the department of homeland security to do its job under current law. it also threatens to severely underfund the operations and support account of the u.s. citizenship and immigration service and eliminates funding for the citizenship and immigration grant program that prepares legal immigrants for civic integration. i am not sure what we are supposed to take from that deletion. are we supposed to take that we do not support legal immigration and that we do not support civic integration? it also eliminates the shelter and services program, which will withhold the resources needed for american communities around the country working to humanely and safely deal with the challenges of our broken immigration system, the realities of our broken immigration system. none of this is policy. this is not constructive legislation. this is outright antipathy, in many cases, toward a legal immigration system, it is messaging, and it does nothing to solve anything. if we think there is a problem--and i believe we all do believe there is a problem with our immigration system in general and border security in particular, then let us talk about it. let us try to resolve it on a bipartisan basis and then let us fund the policies that we have set. let us not defund the institutions that are responsible for administering policies that we believe are broken but it is their responsibility to do so right now. this bill, despite these misguided provisions, does show it is possible to work together in a bipartisan manner, including these very difficult issues on immigration. we should go back to the table and focus on that. i do look forward to working with our colleagues to amend the bill to remove these harmful partisan policy riders and focus on providing the critical funding needed by the department. mr. amodei. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. madam chair, i yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman from illinois (mrs. ramirez). mrs. ramirez. madam chair, i rise in the most strong opposition to h.r. 8752. as a member of the homeland security committee, my level of frustration with the republicans' homeland security budget is really hard to actually overstate. we can all agree that the homeland security appropriations bill should protect our communities. it should also extend our national security, and it should do so while fulfilling our commitment to the international community. yet the republican majority's bill doubles down on bad policies and proven failures. there are too many destructive, cruel, and draconian policies in this bill to outline in a very limited time, but let me highlight a few of them. there is $600 million for the construction of a border wall to embolden cartels and endanger our communities, environment, and sacred lands; $4.1 billion for ice to detain and traumatize families seeking safety and stability; defunding uscis to increase immigration processing backlogs, making it harder to identify possible threats to our communities, which seems hypocritical considering we say this is about the homeland and protecting our communities; defunding the critical shelter and services program to create chaos in cities fulfilling our nation's promise, like chicago; and endangering the lives of asylum seekers across our nation; defunding community-based alternatives to detention that are actually creating more of a cost burden to taxpayers. if your goal is to sow chaos, if your goal is to weaken intergovernmental collaboration, to deconstruct effective policies, to undermine collaboration, to decrease efficiencies, and to destroy families, well then this is, in fact, your bill. madam chair, do not let overt anti-asylum, anti-immigrant racism masqueraded as fiscal responsibility and protection of the homeland fool you. the legislation does not fund the core responsibilities of the department that protects the homeland, and it does not fulfill our commitment to our neighbors, reflecting the best part of who we say proudly we are as a nation. madam chair, i urge a ``no'' vote. mr. amodei. madam chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. madam chair, i am prepared to close, and i yield myself the balance of my time for closing. this bill falls short of what americans deserve. it cuts necessary funding to secure our border, it defunds critical counterterrorism and cybersecurity programs when we should be looking to invest more, and it abandons our core values as americans. i will be voting ``no'' on this bill. i encourage my colleagues to do the same. madam chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. amodei. madam chair, i yield myself the balance of my time. it is the border. it is the border. it is the border. we have heard about messaging. we have heard about managing, all of that sort of stuff, and still here we are. the bill under consideration this morning provides $64.8 billion for the department of homeland security. when we hear about turning our backs, that is an increase of $2.9 billion above the fiscal year 2024 level. the bill prioritizes investments that make the border--remember, it is about the border--more secure and makes appropriate cuts to policies and programs that, quite frankly, we do not think work. when we talk about value judgments and stuff like that, if you think the record on the southern border has been a successful thing for immigration, we respectfully disagree. we have heard from the professionals in the field, our border patrol agents and cbp officers who are being crushed dealing with, dare i say, an unprecedented flow of migrants day after day. this bill supports them through real policy change, not just words. our colleagues across the aisle are content to treat the border crisis as an issue that can be managed. they throw huge sums of money at a problem the failed policies created. it does not work. what do i mean? you have the flow across the border, and now it has become a problem everywhere else in the country. what do school districts do? what do housing people do? what do law enforcement people do? it is fair to focus on the border, but the impacts are not just this is just kind of that deal there. law enforcement professionals do not want to manage the border; they want to enforce the law. they want to enforce not the law that we are talking about recently, but they want to enforce the law that has been on the books for a long time. dare i say there are some executive orders that may put the interpretation of the law at issue. they want to enforce the law for us to change the course, to end the chaos. if you think what is happening there is a nice, calm thing and it just needs more resources for management, i respectfully disagree. my colleagues want to provide hundreds of millions of dollars in grants to nonprofit organizations for transportation and other services that only further incentivizes the immigration rush we have got. if you can get across, we will take it from there, and what ``we will take it'' means is giving additional services for transportation. do nonprofits reduce encounters or deter anyone from crossing illegally? no, they do not. this enables all that, so we cut funding for that program. you have heard about border management and shelter services. that is a couple of billion dollars. the numbers are right. quite frankly, that is one of the funding sources that has been used to transport people all around the country, sometimes on airlines, sometimes in the middle of the night, but nonetheless to manage--we have got all these people here, and we have got to get them spread out as soon as possible. madam chair, it is time for plain talk. we zero that account out. oh, my god, you did what? yep. do any of us think the senate will leave it at zero? no. while we are talking about our colleagues in the senate, this bill last year got zip in the way of--how about this policy or that policy. none. it is a big win for you, i guess, if you are on that side of the fence. guess what? we are going to create some things where if you want some [[page h4171]] money back for that and you want it restricted so it is not a slush fund to implement policies that are not on the books in terms of statute or regulation, then guess what, that is zeroed out, as are all of the funds for nonprofits. the criticism there is spot on. it is all seen as a way to facilitate huge amounts of people coming over and processing them away from the border as soon as possible. it is not border cities. they are hardened or whatever; not that they do not need help. it is cities and counties across the country. the answer, according to 3 years' worth of record-high illegal immigration, in our opinion, is a resounding no, so we cut that funding. last year, cbp recorded 3.2 million encounters. to put it in perspective, that is about 11 times the population of the largest city in my district. that is just at the southern border in 1 year. last year, we funded $1.7 billion for tents to process an unprecedented number of aliens that continue to cross between ports of entry under this administration's open-border policies. has spending billions of taxpayer dollars for processing tents along the southern border just to release aliens into the interior at a rapid pace reduced illegal immigration at all? quite the contrary. in this bill, we eliminated that funding. in the middle of an election year, the administration just announced a proclamation to shut down the border if encounters between the ports of entry reach a certain level. we have been beyond those levels for a while now. that is quite an announcement. i heard somebody earlier speak about this is about messaging. i guess in some areas, it is absolutely about messaging. {time} 1145 oh, by the way, all of those previous administration policies, such as shelter in place and stuff like that kind of kept things to a cooperative between two countries and at some sort of manageable level. no, those are all out the door at the beginning of this. that is why this bill invests in tried-and-true methods of securing the border that men and women in the field are asking for: more agents, more detention beds, more technology, and--i know this is bad--physical barriers. this bill makes the following border security investment: sustains funding for 22,000 border patrol agents, $300 million for border security technology, which is a record in that area if somebody thinks anybody is turning their back on anybody. that includes autonomous surveillance towers, mobile surveillance platforms, counter-tunnel equipment, and a significant investment in counter-drone capability. there is $600 million for a border wall because we know physical barriers work. finally, there is $305 million in nonintrusive inspection equipment and upgrades so that we can detect fentanyl at our ports of entry. that is right. this bill does that. in addition to our efforts at the border, the bill includes funding for critical immigration enforcement efforts such as $3.1 billion to support 50,000 detention beds for ice. this is 8,500 more beds than were funded last year and 16,000 more than this administration asked for. yes, we have a disagreement on how many is enough. there is $822 million for flights and ground transportation for ice to execute its statutory authority to remove more than 1.4 million migrants who are still in this country despite having final orders of removal. in case anybody did not catch that, that is to transport people south, not north, east, and west. there is $60 million to hire more than 250 new law enforcement officers to investigate transnational criminal activity and keep our communities safe from those who seek to do us harm. translation: fentanyl. those folks are here to work that issue which, last i heard, was evasive, pervasive, and needs more help. the bill also makes critical investments outside the southern border. for tsa we provide $178 million to speed up computed tomography screening device efforts at the nation's airports. this is new technology that is available that has been rolled out at some airports, but, frankly, the administration had it on a 15-year funding cycle. by the time all of our airports get that, i am sure there will be new and better technology that will make this obsolete. what does the bill do, madam chairman? it puts it on a 5-year cycle. it gets that out to the airports and makes the flying public safer. we doubled the requested amount to pursue those things. then we get to china. as we continue to grow in terms of having to meet the challenge of china's military, economic, and political influence in the indo-pacific, the u.s. must have a persistent presence in the region. this bill expands coast guard operations in the indo-pacific with additional capacity and capability to include $335 million for four fast response cutters to increase deployments in the region, $60 million for service life extension to enable the coast guard to deploy another medium endurance cutter, and $4.2 million for increased operations funds for the coast guard to interact and conduct exercises with our allies in the indo-pacific so that we are ready to go if we need to because we practiced with our friends. the bill funds the core responsibilities of the department and protects the homeland. what it does not do is fund the failed policies that further contribute to chaos at our southern border. madam chairman, that is how you really support the hardworking men and women of dhs protecting the nation. we need to change course on the border. we sincerely believe that. interestingly enough, so do many mayors of large cities across the nation regardless of their political affiliation. we need to change that course not through gimmicks but through real policy and funding changes. this bill is a step in the right direction. madam chairman, i urge my colleagues to support the bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. cole. madam chair, today's measure covers the department of homeland security and is critical to defending the homeland and protecting the american people. from the crisis at the southern border, to the scourge of fentanyl, to the threat of terrorism, the united states continues to face an evolving array of threats. it is more important than ever that we place the department of homeland security in the best position to fulfill its mission. today's bill accomplishes that goal. it invests the resources we need to secure the nation. in fact, this bill provides $64.8 billion to meet our needs, which is an increase of $2.9 billion over last year, and a full $4.25 billion over the president's budget request. this increase is sadly necessary. president biden's policies at the southern border have created a humanitarian and security crisis, overwhelming not only the border itself, but also communities across the country. each month hundreds of thousands of migrants cross the border illegally, many of whom are allowed to remain in the country without consequence. the decision to allow an open southern border has meant that countless wrongdoers--human traffickers, narcotraffickers, and potential terrorists--can enter our country freely. enough is enough. today's bill will take steps to end this state of affairs. it will provide $600 million for construction of the border wall. it will force president biden and secretary mayorkas to adhere to the law. it invests resources to halt fentanyl from entering our country and our communities. it makes critical investments in the border patrol and the coast guard, and it forces the department of homeland security to focus on its core mission: to keep the american people safe. i applaud chairman amodei for his good work in putting this measure together, and i urge all of my colleagues to support its passage. the chair. all time for general debate has expired. pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be considered for amendment under the 5-minute rule. an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of rules committee print 118-38, modified by the amendment specified in section 17 of house resolution 1316, shall be considered as adopted and the bill, as amended, shall be considered as an original bill for the purpose of further amendment under the 5-minute rule and shall be considered as read. the text of the bill, as amended, is as follows: h.r. 8752 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, that the following sums [[page h4172]] are appropriated, out of any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the department of homeland security for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2025, and for other purposes, namely: title i departmental management, intelligence, situational awareness, and oversight office of the secretary and executive management operations and support for necessary expenses of the office of the secretary and for executive management for operations and support, $281,358,000, of which $22,151,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2026: provided, that $5,000,000 shall be withheld from obligation until the secretary submits, to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate, responses to all questions for the record for each hearing on the fiscal year 2026 budget submission for the department of homeland security held by such committees prior to july 1: provided further, that not to exceed $30,000 shall be for official reception and representation expenses. management directorate operations and support for necessary expenses of the management directorate for operations and support, $1,637,290,000: provided, that not to exceed $2,000 shall be for official reception and representation expenses. procurement, construction, and improvements for necessary expenses of the management directorate for procurement, construction, and improvements, $54,337,000, to remain available until september 30, 2027. federal protective service the revenues and collections of security fees credited to this account shall be available until expended for necessary expenses related to the protection of federally owned and leased buildings and for the operations of the federal protective service. intelligence, analysis, and situational awareness operations and support for necessary expenses of the office of intelligence and analysis and the office of homeland security situational awareness for operations and support, $345,360,000, of which $105,701,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2026: provided, that not to exceed $2,000,000 is available for facility needs associated with secure space at fusion centers, including improvements to buildings: provided further, that not to exceed $3,825 shall be for official reception and representation expenses. office of inspector general operations and support for necessary expenses of the office of inspector general for operations and support, $225,294,000: provided, that not to exceed $300,000 may be used for certain confidential operational expenses, including the payment of informants, to be expended at the direction of the inspector general. administrative provisions sec. 101. (a) the secretary of homeland security shall submit a report not later than october 15, 2025, to the inspector general of the department of homeland security listing all grants and contracts awarded by any means other than full and open competition during fiscal years 2024 or 2025. (b) the inspector general shall review the report required by subsection (a) to assess departmental compliance with applicable laws and regulations and report the results of that review to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate not later than february 15, 2026. sec. 102. not later than 30 days after the last day of each month, the chief financial officer of the department of homeland security shall submit to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate a monthly budget and staffing report that includes total obligations of the department for that month and for the fiscal year at the appropriation and program, project, and activity levels, by the source year of the appropriation. sec. 103. (a) the secretary of homeland security, in consultation with the secretary of the treasury, shall notify the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate of any proposed transfers of funds available under section 9705(g)(4)(b) of title 31, united states code, from the department of the treasury forfeiture fund to any agency within the department of homeland security. (b) none of the funds identified for such a transfer may be obligated until the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate are notified of the proposed transfer. sec. 104. all official costs associated with the use of government aircraft by department of homeland security personnel to support official travel of the secretary and the deputy secretary shall be paid from amounts made available for the office of the secretary. sec. 105. (a) the under secretary for management shall brief the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate not later than 45 days after the end of each fiscal quarter on all level 1 and level 2 acquisition programs on the master acquisition oversight list between acquisition decision event and full operational capability, including programs that have been removed from such list during the preceding quarter. (b) for each such program, the briefing described in subsection (a) shall include-- (1) a description of the purpose of the program, including the capabilities being acquired and the component(s) sponsoring the acquisition; (2) the total number of units, as appropriate, to be acquired annually until procurement is complete under the current acquisition program baseline; (3) the acquisition review board status, including-- (a) the current acquisition phase by increment, as applicable; (b) the date of the most recent review; and (c) whether the program has been paused or is in breach status; (4) a comparison between the initial department-approved acquisition program baseline cost, schedule, and performance thresholds and objectives and the program's current such thresholds and objectives, if applicable; (5) the lifecycle cost estimate, adjusted for comparison to the future years homeland security program, including-- (a) the confidence level for the estimate; (b) the fiscal years included in the estimate; (c) a breakout of the estimate for the prior five years, the current year, and the budget year; (d) a breakout of the estimate by appropriation account or other funding source; and (e) a description of and rationale for any changes to the estimate as compared to the previously approved baseline, as applicable, and during the prior fiscal year; (6) a summary of the findings of any independent verification and validation of the items to be acquired or an explanation for why no such verification and validation has been performed; (7) a table displaying the obligation of all program funds by prior fiscal year, the estimated obligation of funds for the current fiscal year, and an estimate for the planned carryover of funds into the subsequent fiscal year; (8) a listing of prime contractors and major subcontractors; and (9) narrative descriptions of risks to cost, schedule, or performance that could result in a program breach if not successfully mitigated. (c) the under secretary for management shall submit each approved acquisition decision memorandum for programs described in this section to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate not later than five business days after the date of approval of such memorandum by the under secretary for management or the designee of the under secretary for management. sec. 106. (a) none of the funds made available to the department of homeland security in this act or prior appropriations acts may be obligated for any new pilot or demonstration unless the component or office carrying out such pilot or demonstration has documented the information described in subsection (c). (b) prior to the obligation of any such funds made available for ``operations and support'' for a new pilot or demonstration, the under secretary for management shall provide a report to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate on the information described in subsection (c). (c) the information required under subsections (a) and (b) for a pilot or demonstration shall include the following-- (1) documented objectives that are well-defined and measurable; (2) an assessment methodology that details-- (a) the type and source of assessment data; (b) the methods for, and frequency of, collecting such data; and (c) how such data will be analyzed; and (3) an implementation plan, including milestones, cost estimates, and implementation schedules, including a projected end date. (d) not later than 90 days after the date of completion of a pilot or demonstration described in subsection (e), the under secretary for management shall provide a report to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate detailing lessons learned, actual costs, any planned expansion or continuation of the pilot or demonstration, and any planned transition of such pilot or demonstration into an enduring program or operation. (e) for the purposes of this section, a pilot or demonstration program is a study, demonstration, experimental program, or trial that-- (1) is a small-scale, short-term experiment conducted in order to evaluate feasibility, duration, costs, or adverse events, and improve upon the design of an effort prior to implementation of a larger scale effort; and (2) uses more than 10 full-time equivalents or obligates, or proposes to obligate, $5,000,000 or more, but does not include congressionally directed programs or enhancements and does not include programs that were in operation as of the date of the enactment of this act. (f) for the purposes of this section, a pilot or demonstration does not include any testing, evaluation, or initial deployment phase executed under a procurement contract for the acquisition of information technology services or systems, or any pilot or demonstration carried out by a non-federal recipient under any financial assistance agreement funded by the department. title ii security, enforcement, and investigations u.s. customs and border protection operations and support (including transfer of funds) for necessary expenses of u.s. customs and border protection for operations and support, including the transportation of unaccompanied alien minors; the provision of air and marine support to federal, state, local, and international agencies in the enforcement or administration of laws enforced by the department of [[page h4173]] homeland security; at the discretion of the secretary of homeland security, the provision of such support to federal, state, and local agencies in other law enforcement and emergency humanitarian efforts; the purchase and lease of up to 7,500 (6,500 for replacement only) police-type vehicles; the purchase, maintenance, or operation of marine vessels, aircraft, and unmanned aerial systems; and contracting with individuals for personal services abroad; $16,566,247,000; of which $3,274,000 shall be derived from the harbor maintenance trust fund for administrative expenses related to the collection of the harbor maintenance fee pursuant to section 9505(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986 (26 u.s.c. 9505(c)(3)) and notwithstanding section 1511(e)(1) of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 551(e)(1)); of which $550,000,000 shall be available until september 30, 2026; and of which such sums as become available in the customs user fee account, except sums subject to section 13031(f)(3) of the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1985 (19 u.s.c. 58c(f)(3)), shall be derived from that account: provided, that not to exceed $34,425 shall be for official reception and representation expenses: provided further, that not to exceed $150,000 shall be available for payment for rental space in connection with preclearance operations: provided further, that not to exceed $2,000,000 shall be for awards of compensation to informants, to be accounted for solely under the certificate of the secretary of homeland security: provided further, that not to exceed $2,500,000 may be transferred to the bureau of indian affairs for the maintenance and repair of roads on native american reservations used by the u.s. border patrol. procurement, construction, and improvements for necessary expenses of u.s. customs and border protection for procurement, construction, and improvements, including procurement of marine vessels, aircraft, and unmanned aerial systems, $1,390,338,000, of which $766,684,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2027, and of which $623,654,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2029. u.s. immigration and customs enforcement operations and support for necessary expenses of u.s. immigration and customs enforcement for operations and support, including the purchase and lease of up to 3,790 (2,350 for replacement only) police-type vehicles; overseas vetted units; and maintenance, minor construction, and minor leasehold improvements at owned and leased facilities; $10,497,243,000; of which not less than $6,000,000 shall remain available until expended for efforts to enforce laws against forced child labor; of which $46,696,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2026; of which not less than $2,000,000 is for paid apprenticeships for participants in the human exploitation rescue operative child-rescue corps; of which not less than $15,000,000 shall be available for investigation of intellectual property rights violations, including operation of the national intellectual property rights coordination center; and of which not less than $5,900,389,000 shall be for enforcement, detention, and removal operations, including transportation of unaccompanied alien minors, of which not less than $3,081,725,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2026: provided, that not to exceed $11,475 shall be for official reception and representation expenses: provided further, that not to exceed $10,000,000 shall be available until expended for conducting special operations under section 3131 of the customs enforcement act of 1986 (19 u.s.c. 2081): provided further, that not to exceed $2,000,000 shall be for awards of compensation to informants, to be accounted for solely under the certificate of the secretary of homeland security: provided further, that not to exceed $11,216,000 shall be available to fund or reimburse other federal agencies for the costs associated with the care, maintenance, and repatriation of smuggled aliens unlawfully present in the united states: provided further, that not less than $2,000,000 shall be for entering into new agreements for the delegation of law enforcement authority provided by section 287(g) of the immigration and nationality act: provided further, that funding made available under this heading shall maintain a level of not less than 50,000 detention beds. procurement, construction, and improvements for necessary expenses of u.s. immigration and customs enforcement for procurement, construction, and improvements, $19,548,000, of which $6,548,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2027, and of which $13,000,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2029. transportation security administration operations and support for necessary expenses of the transportation security administration for operations and support, $10,817,225,000, of which $300,000,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2026: provided, that not to exceed $7,650 shall be for official reception and representation expenses: provided further, that security service fees authorized under section 44940 of title 49, united states code, shall be credited to this appropriation as offsetting collections and shall be available only for aviation security: provided further, that the sum appropriated under this heading from the general fund shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal year 2025 so as to result in a final fiscal year appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more than $7,957,225,000. procurement, construction, and improvements for necessary expenses of the transportation security administration for procurement, construction, and improvements, $198,428,000, to remain available until september 30, 2027. research and development for necessary expenses of the transportation security administration for research and development, $17,990,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026. coast guard operations and support for necessary expenses of the coast guard for operations and support including the coast guard reserve; purchase or lease of not to exceed 25 passenger motor vehicles, which shall be for replacement only; purchase or lease of small boats for contingent and emergent requirements (at a unit cost of not more than $700,000) and repairs and service-life replacements, not to exceed a total of $31,000,000; purchase, lease, or improvements of boats necessary for overseas deployments and activities; payments pursuant to section 156 of public law 97-377 (42 u.s.c. 402 note; 96 stat. 1920); and recreation and welfare; $10,554,261,000, of which $530,000,000 shall be for defense-related activities; of which $24,500,000 shall be derived from the oil spill liability trust fund to carry out the purposes of section 1012(a)(5) of the oil pollution act of 1990 (33 u.s.c. 2712(a)(5)); of which $20,000,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2027; of which $24,359,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2029, for environmental compliance and restoration; and of which $100,000,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2026, which shall only be available for vessel depot level maintenance: provided, that not to exceed $23,000 shall be for official reception and representation expenses. procurement, construction, and improvements for necessary expenses of the coast guard for procurement, construction, and improvements, including aids to navigation, shore facilities (including facilities at department of defense installations used by the coast guard), and vessels and aircraft, including equipment related thereto, $2,128,500,000, to remain available until september 30, 2029; of which $20,000,000 shall be derived from the oil spill liability trust fund to carry out the purposes of section 1012(a)(5) of the oil pollution act of 1990 (33 u.s.c. 2712(a)(5)). research and development for necessary expenses of the coast guard for research and development; and for maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of facilities and equipment; $6,763,000, to remain available until september 30, 2027, of which $500,000 shall be derived from the oil spill liability trust fund to carry out the purposes of section 1012(a)(5) of the oil pollution act of 1990 (33 u.s.c. 2712(a)(5)): provided, that there may be credited to and used for the purposes of this appropriation funds received from state and local governments, other public authorities, private sources, and foreign countries for expenses incurred for research, development, testing, and evaluation. retired pay for retired pay, including the payment of obligations otherwise chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose, payments under the retired serviceman's family protection and survivor benefits plans, payment for career status bonuses, payment of continuation pay under section 356 of title 37, united states code, concurrent receipts, combat- related special compensation, and payments for medical care of retired personnel and their dependents under chapter 55 of title 10, united states code, $1,210,840,000, to remain available until expended. united states secret service operations and support for necessary expenses of the united states secret service for operations and support, including purchase of not to exceed 652 vehicles for police-type use; hire of passenger motor vehicles; purchase of motorcycles made in the united states; hire of aircraft; rental of buildings in the district of columbia; fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other facilities on private or other property not in government ownership or control, as may be necessary to perform protective functions; conduct of and participation in firearms matches; presentation of awards; conduct of behavioral research in support of protective intelligence and operations; payment in advance for commercial accommodations as may be necessary to perform protective functions; and payment, without regard to section 5702 of title 5, united states code, of subsistence expenses of employees who are on protective missions, whether at or away from their duty stations; $3,017,524,000; of which $80,041,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2026, and of which $6,000,000 shall be for a grant for activities related to investigations of missing and exploited children; and of which up to $24,000,000 may be for calendar year 2024 premium pay in excess of the annual equivalent of the limitation on the rate of pay contained in section 5547(a) of title 5, united states code, pursuant to section 2 of the overtime pay for protective services act of 2016 (5 u.s.c. 5547 note), as last amended by public law 118-38: provided, that not to exceed $19,125 shall be for official reception and representation expenses: provided further, that not to exceed $100,000 shall be to provide technical assistance and equipment to foreign law enforcement organizations in criminal investigations within the jurisdiction of the united states secret service. procurement, construction, and improvements for necessary expenses of the united states secret service for procurement, construction, [[page h4174]] and improvements, $138,336,000, of which $53,436,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2027, and of which $84,900,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2029. research and development for necessary expenses of the united states secret service for research and development, $2,250,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026. administrative provisions sec. 201. section 201 of the department of homeland security appropriations act, 2018 (division f of public law 115-141), related to overtime compensation limitations, shall apply with respect to funds made available in this act in the same manner as such section applied to funds made available in that act, except that ``fiscal year 2025'' shall be substituted for ``fiscal year 2018''. sec. 202. funding made available under the headings ``u.s. customs and border protection--operations and support'' and ``u.s. customs and border protection--procurement, construction, and improvements'' shall be available for customs expenses when necessary to maintain operations and prevent adverse personnel actions in puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands, in addition to funding provided by sections 740 and 1406i of title 48, united states code. sec. 203. as authorized by section 601(b) of the united states-colombia trade promotion agreement implementation act (public law 112-42), fees collected from passengers arriving from canada, mexico, or an adjacent island pursuant to section 13031(a)(5) of the consolidated omnibus budget reconciliation act of 1985 (19 u.s.c. 58c(a)(5)) shall be available until expended. sec. 204. (a) for an additional amount for ``u.s. customs and border protection--operations and support'', $31,000,000, to remain available until expended, to be reduced by amounts collected and credited to this appropriation in fiscal year 2025 from amounts authorized to be collected by section 286(i) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1356(i)), section 10412 of the farm security and rural investment act of 2002 (7 u.s.c. 8311), and section 817 of the trade facilitation and trade enforcement act of 2015 (public law 114-125), or other such authorizing language. (b) to the extent that amounts realized from such collections exceed $31,000,000, those amounts in excess of $31,000,000 shall be credited to this appropriation, to remain available until expended. sec. 205. none of the funds made available in this act for u.s. customs and border protection may be used to prevent an individual not in the business of importing a prescription drug (within the meaning of section 801(g) of the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act) from importing a prescription drug from canada that complies with the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act: provided, that this section shall apply only to individuals transporting on their person a personal- use quantity of the prescription drug, not to exceed a 90-day supply: provided further, that the prescription drug may not be-- (1) a controlled substance, as defined in section 102 of the controlled substances act (21 u.s.c. 802); or (2) a biological product, as defined in section 351 of the public health service act (42 u.s.c. 262). sec. 206. (a) notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the funds provided in this or any other act shall be used to approve a waiver of the navigation and vessel- inspection laws pursuant to section 501(b) of title 46, united states code, for the transportation of crude oil distributed from and to the strategic petroleum reserve until the secretary of homeland security, after consultation with the secretaries of the departments of energy and transportation and representatives from the united states flag maritime industry, takes adequate measures to ensure the use of united states flag vessels. (b) the secretary shall notify the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate, the committee on transportation and infrastructure of the house of representatives, and the committee on commerce, science, and transportation of the senate within 2 business days of any request for waivers of navigation and vessel- inspection laws pursuant to section 501(b) of title 46, united states code, with respect to such transportation, and the disposition of such requests. sec. 207. (a) beginning on the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of homeland security shall not-- (1) establish, collect, or otherwise impose any new border crossing fee on individuals crossing the southern border or the northern border at a land port of entry; or (2) conduct any study relating to the imposition of a border crossing fee. (b) in this section, the term ``border crossing fee'' means a fee that every pedestrian, cyclist, and driver and passenger of a private motor vehicle is required to pay for the privilege of crossing the southern border or the northern border at a land port of entry. sec. 208. (a) not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this act, the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection shall submit an expenditure plan for any amounts made available for ``u.s. customs and border protection--procurement, construction, and improvements'' in this act and prior acts to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate. (b) no such amounts provided in this act may be obligated prior to the submission of such plan. sec. 209. section 211 of the department of homeland security appropriations act, 2021 (division f of public law 116-260), prohibiting the use of funds for the construction of fencing in certain areas, shall apply with respect to funds made available in this act in the same manner as such section applied to funds made available in that act. sec. 210. (a) funds made available in this act may be used to alter operations within the national targeting center of u.s. customs and border protection. (b) none of the funds provided by this act, provided by previous appropriations acts that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2025, or provided from any accounts in the treasury of the united states derived by the collection of fees available to the components funded by this act, may be used to reduce anticipated or planned vetting operations at existing locations unless specifically authorized by a statute enacted after the date of enactment of this act. sec. 211. (a) of the total amount made available under ``u.s. customs and border protection--procurement, construction, and improvements'', $1,390,338,000 shall be available only as follows: (1) $600,000,000 for the acquisition and deployment of physical barriers; (2) $300,000,000 for the acquisition and deployment of border security technologies; (3) $305,000,000 for trade and travel assets and infrastructure; (4) $23,654,000 for facility construction and improvements; (5) $131,419,000 for integrated operations assets and infrastructure; and (6) $30,265,000 for mission support and infrastructure. (b) none of the funds allocated for pedestrian physical barriers may be made available for any purpose other than the construction of steel bollard pedestrian barrier built at least 18 to 30 feet in effective height and augmented with anti-climb and anti-dig features. (c) none of the funds allocated for pedestrian physical barriers may be made available for any purpose other than construction of pedestrian barriers consistent with the description in subsection (b) at locations identified in the border security improvement plan submitted to congress on august 1, 2020. (d) the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection may reprioritize the construction of physical barriers outlined in the border security improvement plan and, with prior approval of the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate, add additional miles of pedestrian physical barriers where no such barriers exist, prioritized by operational requirements developed in coordination with u.s. border patrol leadership. (e) the secretary of homeland security shall begin to obligate amounts for physical barrier construction no later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this act. (f) for purposes of this section, the term ``effective height'' refers to the height above the level of the adjacent terrain features. sec. 212. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be obligated, expended, or transferred to another federal agency, board, or commission to be used to dismantle, demolish, remove, or damage existing united states-mexico physical barriers at any location where such barriers have been constructed as of the date of enactment of this act unless such barrier is simultaneously being repaired or replaced. sec. 213. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to utilize the u.s. customs and border protection cbp one application, or any successor application, to facilitate the parole of any alien into the united states. sec. 214. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to implement, administer, or otherwise carry out the policies described in the directive issued by the acting commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection on january 10, 2023, entitled ``emergency driving and vehicular pursuits''. sec. 215. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to admit an alien into the united states at a port of entry on an f or m visa if the college, university, or other institution of higher learning that the student will attend is not accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association recognized by the secretary of education pursuant to part h of title iv of the higher education act of 1965 (20 u.s.c. 1099a et seq.). sec. 216. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to parole into the commonwealth of the northern mariana islands, for the purpose of temporary visit for business or pleasure without a visa, an alien who is a national of the people's republic of china. sec. 217. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used by u.s. customs and border protection to admit into the united states any aerosol-dispensing unmanned aircraft system produced or manufactured in a foreign adversary country. (b) the term ``foreign adversary country'' means a country specified in section 4872(d)(2) of title 10, united states code. sec. 218. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to reduce participation in or substantively diminish the delegation of law enforcement authority authorized under section 287(g) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1357(g)), except as provided in section 219 of this act. sec. 219. none of the funds provided under the heading ``u.s. immigration and customs enforcement--operations and support'' may be used to continue a delegation of law enforcement authority authorized under section 287(g) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1357(g)) if the department of homeland [[page h4175]] security inspector general determines that the terms of the agreement governing the delegation of authority have been materially violated. sec. 220. (a) none of the funds provided under the heading ``u.s. immigration and customs enforcement--operations and support'' may be used to continue any contract for the provision of detention services if the two most recent overall performance evaluations received by the contracted facility are less than ``adequate'' or the equivalent median score in any subsequent performance evaluation system. (b) the performance evaluations referenced in subsection (a) shall be conducted by the u.s. immigration and customs enforcement office of professional responsibility. sec. 221. without regard to the limitation as to time and condition of section 503(d) of this act, the secretary may reprogram within and transfer funds to ``u.s. immigration and customs enforcement--operations and support'' as necessary to ensure the detention of aliens prioritized for removal. sec. 222. the reports required to be submitted under section 216 of the department of homeland security appropriations act, 2021 (division f of public law 116-260) shall continue to be submitted semimonthly and each matter required to be included in such reports by such section 216 shall apply in the same manner and to the same extent during the period described in such section 216. sec. 223. the terms and conditions of section 217 of the department of homeland security appropriations act, 2020 (division d of public law 116-93) shall apply to this act. sec. 224. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to implement, administer, or otherwise carry out the activities and policies described in the memorandum issued by the secretary of homeland security on september 30, 2021, entitled ``guidelines for the enforcement of civil immigration law'', or described in the memorandum issued by kerry doyle, immigration and customs enforcement principal legal advisor on april 3, 2022, entitled ``guidance to opla attorneys regarding the enforcement of civil immigration laws and the exercise of prosecutorial discretion'', or any successor or similar memorandum or policy. sec. 225. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to transport aliens unlawfully present in, paroled into, or inadmissible to the united states into the interior of the united states for purposes other than enforcement of the immigration laws (as such term is defined in section 101 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1101)). (b) the limitation under subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to amounts made available to transport unaccompanied alien children (as such term is defined in section 462 of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 279)). sec. 226. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act for ``u.s. immigration and customs enforcement'' may be used to pay for or facilitate an abortion, except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus would be carried to term, or in the case of rape or incest. (b) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act for ``u.s. immigration and customs enforcement'' may be used to require any person to perform, or facilitate in any way the performance of, any abortion. sec. 227. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to administer hormone therapy medication or perform or facilitate any surgery for any person in custody of u.s. immigration and customs enforcement for the purpose of gender-affirming care. sec. 228. the secretary of homeland security shall allocate amounts appropriated or otherwise made available under the heading ``u.s. immigration and customs enforcement--operations and support'' by this act in order to-- (1) prioritize detention by using such amounts to ensure that the average daily population of detainees is maintained at the full capacity at all detention facilities funded by this act throughout the fiscal year; and (2) ensure that every alien on the non-detained docket is enrolled into the alternatives to detention program with mandatory gps monitoring throughout the duration of all applicable immigration proceedings (including any appeals) and until removal, if ordered removed. sec. 229. not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this act, the chief financial officer of u.s. immigration and customs enforcement shall submit to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate an obligation plan for amounts made available in this act for ``u.s. immigration and customs enforcement'', delineated by level ii program, project, and activity. sec. 230. none of the funds provided under the heading ``u.s. immigration and customs enforcement--operations and support'' may be made available to develop or administer a physical identification card for purposes of alien identification, verification of immigration status, or immigration portal access. sec. 231. none of the funds provided under the heading ``u.s. immigration and customs enforcement--operations and support'' may be made available to develop, pilot, administer, or otherwise implement standards for management of the non-detained alien population or for the alternatives to detention program beyond those incorporated in the alternatives to detention handbook, issued on august 16, 2017. sec. 232. none of the funds provided under the heading ``u.s. immigration and customs enforcement--operations and support'' may be made available to implement, administer, or otherwise carry out the activities, policies, and guidelines described in the memorandum issued by the secretary of homeland security on october 27, 2021, entitled ``guidelines for enforcement actions in or near protected areas''. sec. 233. no law of any state or political subdivision thereof pertaining to a minimum rate of compensation or any other condition of employment shall apply in the case of any person held in federal custody pursuant to the immigration laws (as such term is defined in section 101 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c.1101)). sec. 234. (a) members of the united states house of representatives and the united states senate, including the leadership; the heads of federal agencies and commissions, including the secretary, deputy secretary, under secretaries, and assistant secretaries of the department of homeland security; the united states attorney general, deputy attorney general, assistant attorneys general, and the united states attorneys; and senior members of the executive office of the president, including the director of the office of management and budget, shall not be exempt from federal passenger and baggage screening. (b) none of the funds made available in this or any other act, including prior acts, or provided from any accounts in the treasury of the united states derived by the collection of fees available to the components funded by this act may be used to carry out legislation altering the applicability of the screening requirements outlined in subsection (a). sec. 235. notwithstanding section 44923 of title 49, united states code, for fiscal year 2025, any funds in the aviation security capital fund established by section 44923(h) of title 49, united states code, may be used for the procurement and installation of explosives detection systems or for the issuance of other transaction agreements for the purpose of funding projects described in section 44923(a) of such title. sec. 236. not later than 45 days after the submission of the president's budget proposal, the administrator of the transportation security administration shall submit to the committees on appropriations and homeland security of the house of representatives and the committees on appropriations and commerce, science, and transportation of the senate a single report that fulfills the following requirements: (1) a capital investment plan, both constrained and unconstrained, that includes a plan for continuous and sustained capital investment in new, and the replacement of aged, transportation security equipment; (2) the 5-year technology investment plan as required by section 1611 of title xvi of the homeland security act of 2002, as amended by section 3 of the transportation security acquisition reform act (public law 113-245); and (3) the advanced integrated passenger screening technologies report as required by the senate report accompanying the department of homeland security appropriations act, 2019 (senate report 115-283). sec. 237. (a) none of the funds made available by this act under the heading ``coast guard--operations and support'' shall be for expenses incurred for recreational vessels under section 12114 of title 46, united states code, except to the extent fees are collected from owners of yachts and credited to the appropriation made available by this act under the heading ``coast guard--operations and support''. (b) to the extent such fees are insufficient to pay expenses of recreational vessel documentation under such section 12114, and there is a backlog of recreational vessel applications, personnel performing non-recreational vessel documentation functions under subchapter ii of chapter 121 of title 46, united states code, may perform documentation under section 12114. sec. 238. notwithstanding any other provision of law, the commandant of the coast guard shall submit to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate a future-years capital investment plan as described in the second proviso under the heading ``coast guard-- acquisition, construction, and improvements'' in the department of homeland security appropriations act, 2015 (public law 114-4), which shall be subject to the requirements in the third and fourth provisos under such heading. sec. 239. none of the funds in this act shall be used to reduce the coast guard's legacy operations systems center mission or its government-employed or contract staff levels. sec. 240. none of the funds appropriated by this act may be used to conduct, or to implement the results of, a competition under office of management and budget circular a- 76 for activities performed with respect to the coast guard national vessel documentation center. sec. 241. funds made available in this act may be used to alter operations within the civil engineering program of the coast guard nationwide, including civil engineering units, facilities design and construction centers, maintenance and logistics commands, and the coast guard academy, except that none of the funds provided in this act may be used to reduce operations within any civil engineering unit unless specifically authorized by a statute enacted after the date of enactment of this act. sec. 242. amounts deposited into the coast guard housing fund in fiscal year 2025 shall be available until expended to carry out the purposes of section 2946 of title 14, united states code, and shall be in addition to funds otherwise available for such purposes. sec. 243. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to implement, administer, or enforce a final rule on ``shipping safety fairways along the atlantic coast'' (89 fed. reg. 3587) until the coast guard submits a report to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate on the effect of offshore wind turbines on marine navigation radar, especially with regard to search and rescue interference. [[page h4176]] sec. 244. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to implement, administer, or enforce a final rule on ``amendments to the north atlantic right whale vessel strike reduction rule'' (87 fed. reg. 46920) or any restrictions on vessel speed for the rice's whale that were not in place prior to january 20, 2021. sec. 245. the united states secret service is authorized to obligate funds in anticipation of reimbursements from executive agencies, as defined in section 105 of title 5, united states code, for personnel receiving training sponsored by the james j. rowley training center, except that total obligations at the end of the fiscal year shall not exceed total budgetary resources available under the heading ``united states secret service--operations and support'' at the end of the fiscal year. sec. 246. (a) none of the funds made available to the united states secret service by this act or by previous appropriations acts may be made available for the protection of the head of a federal agency other than the secretary of homeland security. (b) the director of the united states secret service may enter into agreements to provide such protection on a fully reimbursable basis. sec. 247. for purposes of section 503(a)(3) of this act, up to $15,000,000 may be reprogrammed within ``united states secret service--operations and support''. sec. 248. funding made available in this act for ``united states secret service--operations and support'' is available for travel of united states secret service employees on protective missions without regard to the limitations on such expenditures in this or any other act if the director of the united states secret service or a designee notifies the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate 10 or more days in advance, or as early as practicable, prior to such expenditures. sec. 249. none of the funds provided under the heading ``u.s. immigration and customs enforcement--operations and support'' may be made available to terminate or substantively reduce the terms or conditions of a contract for the provision of detention services with any facility that was previously or is currently designated as a family residential center. sec. 250. (a) the secretary of the department in which the coast guard is operating shall ensure that, during the fiscal year funded by this act, the imposition or collection of cost-sharing for certain services is prohibited as follows-- (1) notwithstanding subparagraphs (a), (b), and (c) of section 1074g(a)(6) of title 10, united states code, cost- sharing may not be imposed or collected with respect to any eligible covered beneficiary for any prescription contraceptive on the uniform formulary provided through a retail pharmacy described in section 1074g(a)(2)(e)(ii) of such title or through the national mail-order pharmacy program of the tricare program. (2) notwithstanding any provision under section 1075 of title 10, united states code, cost-sharing may not be imposed or collected for a covered service that is provided by a network provider under the tricare program to an eligible covered beneficiary under such section. (3) notwithstanding subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 1075a of title 10, united states code, cost-sharing may not be imposed or collected for a covered service that is provided under tricare prime to an eligible covered beneficiary under such section. (b) in this section-- (1) the term ``covered service'' means any method of contraception approved, granted, or cleared by the food and drug administration, any contraceptive care (including with respect to insertion, removal, and follow up), any sterilization procedure, or any patient education or counseling service provided in connection with any such method, care, or procedure. (2) the term ``eligible covered beneficiary'' means an eligible covered beneficiary (as such term is used in section 1074g of title 10, united states code) on the basis of being-- (a) a member of the coast guard; or (b) a dependent of such a member. (3) the terms ``tricare program'' and ``tricare prime'' have the meaning given such terms in section 1072 of title 10, united states code. (c) this section shall become effective 30 days after the date of enactment of this act. sec. 251. (a) contraceptive supplies of up to 365 days shall be covered for any eligible covered beneficiary to obtain, including in a single fill or refill, at the option of such beneficiary, the total days of supply (not to exceed a 365-day supply) for a contraceptive on the uniform formulary provided through a military treatment facility pharmacy, retail pharmacy described in section 1074g(a)(2)(e)(ii) of such title, or through the national mail-order pharmacy program of the tricare program. (b) beginning not later than 90 days after the implementation of coverage under subsection (a), the secretary of the department in which the coast guard is operating shall conduct such outreach activities as are necessary to inform health care providers and individuals who are enrolled in the tricare program of such coverage and the requirements to receive such coverage. (c) in this section-- (1) the term ``covered armed force'' means the coast guard. (2) the term ``eligible covered beneficiary'' means an eligible covered beneficiary as such term is used in section 1074g of title 10, united states code who is-- (a) a member of a covered armed force serving on active duty; or (b) a dependent of a member described in subparagraph (a). (3) the terms ``tricare program'' and ``tricare prime'' have the meaning given such terms in section 1072 of title 10, united states code. (d) this section shall become effective 180 days after the date of enactment of this act. title iii protection, preparedness, response, and recovery cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency operations and support for necessary expenses of the cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency for operations and support, $2,437,285,000, of which $23,698,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2026: provided, that not to exceed $3,825 shall be for official reception and representation expenses. procurement, construction, and improvements for necessary expenses of the cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency for procurement, construction, and improvements, $493,572,000, to remain available until september 30, 2027. federal emergency management agency operations and support for necessary expenses of the federal emergency management agency for operations and support, $1,551,093,000: provided, that not to exceed $2,250 shall be for official reception and representation expenses. procurement, construction, and improvements for necessary expenses of the federal emergency management agency for procurement, construction, and improvements, $94,827,000, of which $38,590,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2027, and of which $56,237,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2029. federal assistance for activities of the federal emergency management agency for federal assistance through grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other activities, $3,758,992,810, which shall be allocated as follows: (1) $520,000,000 for the state homeland security grant program under section 2004 of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 605), of which $90,000,000 shall be for operation stonegarden and $15,000,000 shall be for tribal homeland security grants under section 2005 of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 606): provided, that notwithstanding subsection (c)(4) of such section 2004, for fiscal year 2025, the commonwealth of puerto rico shall make available to local and tribal governments amounts provided to the commonwealth of puerto rico under this paragraph in accordance with subsection (c)(1) of such section 2004. (2) $615,000,000 for the urban area security initiative under section 2003 of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 604). (3) $305,000,000 for the nonprofit security grant program under section 2009 of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 609a), of which $152,500,000 is for eligible recipients located in high-risk urban areas that receive funding under section 2003 of such act and $152,500,000 is for eligible recipients that are located outside such areas: provided, that eligible recipients are those described in section 2009(b) of such act (6 u.s.c. 609a(b)) or are an otherwise eligible recipient at risk of a terrorist or other extremist attack. (4) $105,000,000 for public transportation security assistance, railroad security assistance, and over-the-road bus security assistance under sections 1406, 1513, and 1532 of the implementing recommendations of the 9/11 commission act of 2007 (6 u.s.c. 1135, 1163, and 1182), of which $10,000,000 shall be for amtrak security and $2,000,000 shall be for over-the-road bus security: provided, that such public transportation security assistance shall be provided directly to public transportation agencies. (5) $100,000,000 for port security grants in accordance with section 70107 of title 46, united states code. (6) $720,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026, of which $360,000,000 shall be for assistance to firefighter grants and $360,000,000 shall be for staffing for adequate fire and emergency response grants under sections 33 and 34 respectively of the federal fire prevention and control act of 1974 (15 u.s.c. 2229 and 2229a). (7) $355,000,000 for emergency management performance grants under the national flood insurance act of 1968 (42 u.s.c. 4001 et seq.), the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5121), the earthquake hazards reduction act of 1977 (42 u.s.c. 7701), section 762 of title 6, united states code, and reorganization plan no. 3 of 1978 (5 u.s.c. app.). (8) $312,750,000 for necessary expenses for flood hazard mapping and risk analysis, in addition to and to supplement any other sums appropriated under the national flood insurance fund, and such additional sums as may be provided by states or other political subdivisions for cost-shared mapping activities under section 1360(f)(2) of the national flood insurance act of 1968 (42 u.s.c. 4101(f)(2)), to remain available until expended. (9) $12,000,000 for regional catastrophic preparedness grants. (10) $130,000,000 for the emergency food and shelter program under title iii of the mckinney-vento homeless assistance act (42 u.s.c. 11331), to remain available until september 30, 2026: provided, that not to exceed 3.5 percent shall be for total administrative costs. (11) $40,000,000 for the next generation warning system. (12) $221,343,810 for community project funding grants, which shall be for the purposes, and the amounts, specified in the table entitled ``homeland security--community project funding'' in the report accompanying this act, of which-- [[page h4177]] (a) $81,771,896, in addition to amounts otherwise made available for such purpose, is for emergency operations center grants under section 614 of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5196c); and (b) $139,571,914, in addition to amounts otherwise made available for such purpose, is for pre-disaster mitigation grants under section 203 of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5133(e), notwithstanding subsections (f), (g), and (l) of that section (42 u.s.c. 5133(f), (g), (l)). (13) $322,899,000 to sustain current operations for training, exercises, technical assistance, and other programs. disaster relief fund for necessary expenses in carrying out the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5121 et seq.), $22,741,000,000, to remain available until expended: provided, that such amount shall be for major disasters declared pursuant to the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5121 et seq.) and is designated by the congress as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(d) of the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985. national flood insurance fund for activities under the national flood insurance act of 1968 (42 u.s.c. 4001 et seq.), the flood disaster protection act of 1973 (42 u.s.c. 4001 et seq.), the biggert-waters flood insurance reform act of 2012 (public law 112-141, 126 stat. 916), and the homeowner flood insurance affordability act of 2014 (public law 113-89; 128 stat. 1020), $239,785,000, to remain available until september 30, 2026, which shall be derived from offsetting amounts collected under section 1308(d) of the national flood insurance act of 1968 (42 u.s.c. 4015(d)); of which $14,578,000 shall be available for mission support associated with flood management; and of which $225,207,000 shall be available for flood plain management and flood mapping: provided, that any additional fees collected pursuant to section 1308(d) of the national flood insurance act of 1968 (42 u.s.c. 4015(d)) shall be credited as offsetting collections to this account, to be available for flood plain management and flood mapping: provided further, that in fiscal year 2025, no funds shall be available from the national flood insurance fund under section 1310 of the national flood insurance act of 1968 (42 u.s.c. 4017) in excess of-- (1) $240,262,000 for operating expenses and salaries and expenses associated with flood insurance operations; (2) $1,382,000,000 for commissions and taxes of agents; (3) such sums as are necessary for interest on treasury borrowings; and (4) $175,000,000, which shall remain available until expended, for flood mitigation actions and for flood mitigation assistance under section 1366 of the national flood insurance act of 1968 (42 u.s.c. 4104c), notwithstanding sections 1366(e) and 1310(a)(7) of such act (42 u.s.c. 4104c(e), 4017): provided further, that the amounts collected under section 102 of the flood disaster protection act of 1973 (42 u.s.c. 4012a) and section 1366(e) of the national flood insurance act of 1968 (42 u.s.c. 4104c(e)), shall be deposited in the national flood insurance fund to supplement other amounts specified as available for section 1366 of the national flood insurance act of 1968, notwithstanding section 102(f)(8), section 1366(e) of the national flood insurance act of 1968, and paragraphs (1) through (3) of section 1367(b) of such act (42 u.s.c. 4012a(f)(8), 4104c(e), 4104d(b)(1)-(3)): provided further, that total administrative costs shall not exceed 4 percent of the total appropriation: provided further, that up to $6,102,000 is available to carry out section 24 of the homeowner flood insurance affordability act of 2014 (42 u.s.c. 4033). administrative provisions (including transfers of funds) sec. 301. funds made available under the heading ``cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency-- operations and support'' may be made available for the necessary expenses of procuring or providing access to cybersecurity threat feeds for branches, agencies, independent agencies, corporations, establishments, and instrumentalities of the federal government of the united states, state, local, tribal, and territorial entities, fusion centers as described in section 210a of the homeland security act (6 u.s.c. 124h), and information sharing and analysis organizations. sec. 302. (a) notwithstanding section 2008(a)(12) of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 609(a)(12)) or any other provision of law, not more than 5 percent of the amount of a grant made available in paragraphs (1) through (5) under ``federal emergency management agency--federal assistance'', may be used by the recipient for expenses directly related to administration of the grant. (b) the authority provided in subsection (a) shall also apply to a state recipient for the administration of a grant under such paragraph (3). sec. 303. applications for grants under the heading ``federal emergency management agency--federal assistance'', for paragraphs (1) through (5), shall be made available to eligible applicants not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this act, eligible applicants shall submit applications not later than 80 days after the grant announcement, and the administrator of the federal emergency management agency shall act within 65 days after the receipt of an application. sec. 304. (a) under the heading ``federal emergency management agency--federal assistance'', for grants under paragraphs (1) through (5) and (9), the administrator of the federal emergency management agency shall brief the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate 5 full business days in advance of announcing publicly the intention of making an award. (b) if any such public announcement is made before 5 full business days have elapsed following such briefing, $1,000,000 of amounts appropriated by this act for ``federal emergency management agency--operations and support'' shall be rescinded. sec. 305. under the heading ``federal emergency management agency--federal assistance'', for grants under paragraphs (1) and (2), the installation of communications towers is not considered construction of a building or other physical facility. sec. 306. the reporting requirements in paragraphs (1) and (2) under the heading ``federal emergency management agency-- disaster relief fund'' in the department of homeland security appropriations act, 2015 (public law 114-4), related to reporting on the disaster relief fund, shall be applied in fiscal year 2025 with respect to budget year 2026 and current fiscal year 2025, respectively-- (1) in paragraph (1) by substituting ``fiscal year 2026'' for ``fiscal year 2016''; and (2) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``business'' after ``fifth''. sec. 307. in making grants under the heading ``federal emergency management agency--federal assistance'', for staffing for adequate fire and emergency response grants, the administrator of the federal emergency management agency may grant waivers from the requirements in subsections (a)(1)(a), (a)(1)(b), (a)(1)(e), (c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(4) of section 34 of the federal fire prevention and control act of 1974 (15 u.s.c. 2229a). sec. 308. (a) the aggregate charges assessed during fiscal year 2025, as authorized in title iii of the departments of veterans affairs and housing and urban development, and independent agencies appropriations act, 1999 (42 u.s.c. 5196e), shall not be less than 100 percent of the amounts anticipated by the department of homeland security to be necessary for its radiological emergency preparedness program for the next fiscal year. (b) the methodology for assessment and collection of fees shall be fair and equitable and shall reflect costs of providing such services, including administrative costs of collecting such fees. (c) such fees shall be deposited in a radiological emergency preparedness program account as offsetting collections and will become available for authorized purposes on october 1, 2025, and remain available until expended. sec. 309. in making grants under the heading ``federal emergency management agency--federal assistance'', for assistance to firefighter grants, the administrator of the federal emergency management agency may waive subsection (k) of section 33 of the federal fire prevention and control act of 1974 (15 u.s.c. 2229). sec. 310. any unobligated balances of funds appropriated in any prior act for activities funded by the national predisaster mitigation fund under section 203 of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5133), as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of section 1234 of division d of public law 115- 254, may be transferred to and merged with funds set aside pursuant to subsection (i)(1) of section 203 of the robert t. stafford disaster relief and emergency assistance act (42 u.s.c. 5133), as in effect on the date of the enactment of this section. sec. 311. any unobligated balances of funds appropriated under the heading ``federal emergency management agency-- flood hazard mapping and risk analysis program'' in any prior act may be transferred to and merged with funds appropriated under the heading ``federal emergency management agency-- federal assistance'' for necessary expenses for flood hazard mapping and risk analysis: provided, that funds transferred pursuant to this section shall be in addition to and supplement any other sums appropriated for such purposes under the national flood insurance fund and such additional sums as may be provided by states or other political subdivisions for cost-shared mapping activities under section 1360(f)(2) of the national flood insurance act of 1968 (42 u.s.c. 4101(f)(2)), to remain available until expended. title iv research, development, training, and services u.s. citizenship and immigration services operations and support for necessary expenses of u.s. citizenship and immigration services for operations and support of the e-verify program, $112,431,000: provided, that such amounts shall be in addition to any other amounts made available for such purposes, and shall not be construed to require any reduction of any fee described in section 286(m) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1356(m)). federal law enforcement training centers operations and support for necessary expenses of the federal law enforcement training centers for operations and support, including the purchase of not to exceed 117 vehicles for police-type use and hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, united states code, $360,752,000, of which $66,665,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2026: provided, that not to exceed $7,180 shall be for official reception and representation expenses. procurement, construction, and improvements for necessary expenses of the federal law enforcement training centers for procurement, construction, and improvements, $6,000,000, to [[page h4178]] remain available until september 30, 2029, for acquisition of necessary additional real property and facilities, construction and ongoing maintenance, facility improvements and related expenses of the federal law enforcement training centers. science and technology directorate operations and support for necessary expenses of the science and technology directorate for operations and support, including the purchase or lease of not to exceed 5 vehicles, $375,238,000, of which $206,442,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2026: provided, that not to exceed $10,000 shall be for official reception and representation expenses. procurement, construction, and improvements for necessary expenses of the science and technology directorate for procurement, construction, and improvements, $30,000,000, to remain available until september 30, 2029. research and development for necessary expenses of the science and technology directorate for research and development, $339,353,000, to remain available until september 30, 2027. countering weapons of mass destruction office operations and support for necessary expenses of the countering weapons of mass destruction office for operations and support, $159,252,000, of which $50,446,000 shall remain available until september 30, 2026: provided, that not to exceed $2,250 shall be for official reception and representation expenses. procurement, construction, and improvements for necessary expenses of the countering weapons of mass destruction office for procurement, construction, and improvements, $33,397,000, to remain available until september 30, 2027. research and development for necessary expenses of the countering weapons of mass destruction office for research and development, $110,938,000, to remain available until september 30, 2027. federal assistance for necessary expenses of the countering weapons of mass destruction office for federal assistance through grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other activities, $57,726,000, to remain available until september 30, 2027. administrative provisions sec. 401. (a) notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds otherwise made available to u.s. citizenship and immigration services may be used to acquire, operate, equip, and dispose of up to 5 vehicles, for replacement only, for areas where the administrator of general services does not provide vehicles for lease. (b) the director of u.s. citizenship and immigration services may authorize employees who are assigned to those areas to use such vehicles to travel between the employees' residences and places of employment. sec. 402. none of the funds appropriated by this act may be used to process or approve a competition under office of management and budget circular a-76 for services provided by employees (including employees serving on a temporary or term basis) of u.s. citizenship and immigration services of the department of homeland security who are known as immigration information officers, immigration service analysts, contact representatives, investigative assistants, or immigration services officers. sec. 403. notwithstanding any other provision of law, any federal funds made available to u.s. citizenship and immigration services may be used for the collection and use of biometrics taken at a u.s. citizenship and immigration services application support center that is overseen virtually by u.s. citizenship and immigration services personnel using appropriate technology. sec. 404. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to implement, administer, or enforce the rule entitled ``procedures or credible fear screening and consideration of asylum, withholding of removal, and cat protection claims by asylum officers'' (87 fed. reg. 18078). sec. 405. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to issue any employment authorization document or similar document to any alien whose application for asylum in the united states has been denied, or who is convicted of a federal or state crime while his or her application for asylum in the united states is pending. sec. 406. notwithstanding the numerical limitation set forth in section 214(g)(1)(b) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1184(g)(1)(b)), the secretary of homeland security, after consultation with the secretary of labor, and upon determining that the needs of american businesses cannot be satisfied during fiscal year 2025 with united states workers who are willing, qualified, and able to perform temporary nonagricultural labor, may increase the total number of aliens who may receive a visa under setion 101(a)(15)(h)(ii)(b) of such act (8 u.s.c. 1101(a)(15)(h)(ii)(b)) in such fiscal year above such limitation by not more than the highest number of h-2b nonimmigrants who participated in the h-2b returning worker program in any fiscal year in which returning workers were exempt from such numerical limitation. sec. 407. notwithstanding section 286(n) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1356(n)), the director of u.s. citizenship and immigration services may use not more than $2,500 of the amounts deposited in the immigration examinations fee account for official reception and representation expenses in fiscal year 2025. sec. 408. no federal funds made available to the department of homeland security may be used for the consideration of a petition for a nonimmigrant visa under section 101(a)(15)(h)(i)(b) of the immigration and nationality act, if the petitioner is any entity identified under section 1260h of the william m. (mac) thornberry national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2021 (public law 116-283) or any subsidiary of such entity. sec. 409. the director of the federal law enforcement training centers is authorized to distribute funds to federal law enforcement agencies for expenses incurred participating in training accreditation. sec. 410. the federal law enforcement training accreditation board, including representatives from the federal law enforcement community and non-federal accreditation experts involved in law enforcement training, shall lead the federal law enforcement training accreditation process to continue the implementation of measuring and assessing the quality and effectiveness of federal law enforcement training programs, facilities, and instructors. sec. 411. (a) the director of the federal law enforcement training centers may accept transfers to its ``procurement, construction, and improvements'' account from government agencies requesting the construction of special use facilities, as authorized by the economy act (31 u.s.c. 1535(b)). (b) the federal law enforcement training centers shall maintain administrative control and ownership upon completion of such facilities. sec. 412. the functions of the federal law enforcement training centers instructor staff shall be classified as inherently governmental for purposes of the federal activities inventory reform act of 1998 (31 u.s.c. 501 note). sec. 414. none of the funds made available in this act may be made available to implement, administer, or enforce the ``asylum program fee'' from the final rule entitled ``u.s. citizenship and immigration services fee schedule and changes to certain other immigration benefit request requirements'' (88 fed. reg. 6194). title v general provisions (including transfers and rescissions of funds) sec. 501. no part of any appropriation contained in this act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided herein. sec. 502. subject to the requirements of section 503 of this act, the unexpended balances of prior appropriations provided for activities in this act may be transferred to appropriation accounts for such activities established pursuant to this act, may be merged with funds in the applicable established accounts, and thereafter may be accounted for as one fund for the same time period as originally enacted. sec. 503. (a) none of the funds provided by this act, provided by previous appropriations acts to the components in or transferred to the department of homeland security that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2025, or provided from any accounts in the treasury of the united states derived by the collection of fees available to the components funded by this act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that-- (1) creates or eliminates a program, project, or activity, or increases funds for any program, project, or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted by the congress; (2) contracts out any function or activity presently performed by federal employees or any new function or activity proposed to be performed by federal employees in the president's budget proposal for fiscal year 2025 for the department of homeland security; (3) augments funding for existing programs, projects, or activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; (4) reduces funding for any program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel, by 10 percent or more; or (5) results from any general savings from a reduction in personnel that would result in a change in funding levels for programs, projects, or activities as approved by the congress. (b) subsection (a) shall not apply if the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate are notified at least 30 days in advance of such reprogramming. (c) up to 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the current fiscal year for the department of homeland security by this act or provided by previous appropriations acts may be transferred between such appropriations if the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate are notified at least 30 days in advance of such transfer, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 percent by such transfer. (d) notwithstanding subsections (a), (b), and (c), no funds shall be reprogrammed within or transferred between appropriations-- (1) based upon an initial notification provided after june 15, except in extraordinary circumstances that imminently threaten the safety of human life or the protection of property; (2) to increase or decrease funding for grant programs; or (3) to create a program, project, or activity pursuant to subsection (a)(1), including any new function or requirement within any program, project, or activity, not approved by congress in the consideration of the enactment of this act. (e) the notification thresholds and procedures set forth in subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) [[page h4179]] shall apply to any use of deobligated balances of funds provided in previous department of homeland security appropriations acts that remain available for obligation in the current year. (f) notwithstanding subsection (c), the secretary of homeland security may transfer to the fund established by 8 u.s.c. 1101 note, up to $20,000,000 from appropriations available to the department of homeland security: provided, that the secretary shall notify the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate at least 5 days in advance of such transfer. sec. 504. (a) section 504 of the department of homeland security appropriations act, 2017 (division f of public law 115-31), related to the operations of a working capital fund, shall apply with respect to funds made available in this act in the same manner as such section applied to funds made available in that act. (b) funds from such working capital fund may be obligated and expended in anticipation of reimbursements from components of the department of homeland security. sec. 505. (a) except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the end of fiscal year 2025, as recorded in the financial records at the time of a reprogramming notification, but not later than june 15, 2026, from appropriations for ``operations and support'' for fiscal year 2025 in this act shall remain available through september 30, 2026, in the account and for the purposes for which the appropriations were provided. (b) prior to the obligation of such funds, a notification shall be submitted to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate in accordance with section 503 of this act. sec. 506. (a) funds made available by this act for intelligence activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the congress for purposes of section 504 of the national security act of 1947 (50 u.s.c. 414) during fiscal year 2025 until the enactment of an act authorizing intelligence activities for fiscal year 2025. (b) amounts described in subsection (a) made available for ``intelligence, analysis, and situational awareness-- operations and support'' that exceed the amounts in such authorization for such account shall be transferred to and merged with amounts made available under the heading ``management directorate--operations and support''. (c) prior to the obligation of any funds transferred under subsection (b), the management directorate shall brief the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate on a plan for the use of such funds. sec. 507. (a) the secretary of homeland security, or the designee of the secretary, shall notify the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate at least 3 full business days in advance of-- (1) making or awarding a grant allocation or grant in excess of $1,000,000; (2) making or awarding a contract, other transaction agreement, or task or delivery order on a multiple award contract, or to issue a letter of intent totaling in excess of $4,000,000; (3) awarding a task or delivery order requiring an obligation of funds in an amount greater than $10,000,000 from multi-year department of homeland security funds; (4) making a sole-source grant award; or (5) announcing publicly the intention to make or award items under paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4), including a contract covered by the federal acquisition regulation. (b) if the secretary of homeland security determines that compliance with this section would pose a substantial risk to human life, health, or safety, an award may be made without notification, and the secretary shall notify the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate not later than 5 full business days after such an award is made or letter issued. (c) a notification under this section-- (1) may not involve funds that are not available for obligation; and (2) shall include the amount of the award; the fiscal year for which the funds for the award were appropriated; the type of contract; and the account from which the funds are being drawn. sec. 508. notwithstanding any other provision of law, no agency shall purchase, construct, or lease any additional facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be used for the purpose of conducting federal law enforcement training without advance notification to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate, except that the federal law enforcement training centers is authorized to obtain the temporary use of additional facilities by lease, contract, or other agreement for training that cannot be accommodated in existing centers' facilities. sec. 509. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used for expenses for any construction, repair, alteration, or acquisition project for which a prospectus otherwise required under chapter 33 of title 40, united states code, has not been approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for each project for required expenses for the development of a proposed prospectus. sec. 510. sections 522 and 530 of the department of homeland security appropriations act, 2008 (division e of public law 110-161; 121 stat. 2073 and 2074) shall apply with respect to funds made available in this act in the same manner as such sections applied to funds made available in that act. sec. 511. (a) none of the funds made available in this act may be used in contravention of the applicable provisions of the buy american act. (b) for purposes of subsection (a), the term ``buy american act'' means chapter 83 of title 41, united states code. sec. 512. none of the funds made available in this act may be used to amend the oath of allegiance required by section 337 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1448). sec. 513. none of the funds provided or otherwise made available in this act shall be available to carry out section 872 of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 452) unless explicitly authorized by the congress. sec. 514. none of the funds made available in this act may be used for planning, testing, piloting, or developing a national identification card. sec. 515. any official that is required by this act to report or to certify to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate may not delegate such authority to perform that act unless specifically authorized herein. sec. 516. none of the funds made available in this act may be used for first-class travel by the employees of agencies funded by this act in contravention of sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, code of federal regulations. sec. 517. none of the funds made available in this act may be used to employ workers described in section 274a(h)(3) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1324a(h)(3)). sec. 518. notwithstanding any other provision of this act, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to pay award or incentive fees for contractor performance that has been judged to be below satisfactory performance or performance that does not meet the basic requirements of a contract. sec. 519. (a) none of the funds made available in this act may be used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography. (b) nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds necessary for any federal, state, tribal, territorial, or local law enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities. sec. 520. none of the funds made available in this act may be used by a federal law enforcement officer to facilitate the transfer of an operable firearm to an individual if the federal law enforcement officer knows or suspects that the individual is an agent of a drug cartel unless law enforcement personnel of the united states continuously monitor or control the firearm at all times. sec. 521. (a) none of the funds made available in this act may be used to pay for the travel to or attendance of more than 50 employees of a single component of the department of homeland security, who are stationed in the united states, at a single international conference unless the secretary of homeland security, or a designee, determines that such attendance is in the national interest and notifies the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate within at least 10 days of that determination and the basis for that determination. (b) for purposes of this section the term ``international conference'' shall mean a conference occurring outside of the united states attended by representatives of the united states government and of foreign governments, international organizations, or nongovernmental organizations. (c) the total cost to the department of homeland security of any such conference shall not exceed $500,000. (d) employees who attend a conference virtually without travel away from their permanent duty station within the united states shall not be counted for purposes of this section, and the prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to payments for the costs of attendance for such employees. sec. 522. none of the funds made available in this act may be used to reimburse any federal department or agency for its participation in a national special security event. sec. 523. (a) none of the funds made available to the department of homeland security by this or any other act may be obligated for the implementation of any structural pay reform or the introduction of any new position classification that will affect more than 100 full-time positions or costs more than $5,000,000 in a single year before the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date on which the secretary of homeland security submits to congress a notification that includes-- (1) the number of full-time positions affected by such change; (2) funding required for such change for the current fiscal year and through the future years homeland security program; (3) justification for such change; and (4) for a structural pay reform, an analysis of compensation alternatives to such change that were considered by the department. (b) subsection (a) shall not apply to such change if-- (1) it was proposed in the president's budget proposal for the fiscal year funded by this act; and (2) funds for such change have not been explicitly denied or restricted in this act. sec. 524. (a) any agency receiving funds made available in this act shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public website of that agency any report required to be submitted by the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate in this act, upon the determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve the national interest. (b) subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if-- (1) the public posting of the report compromises homeland or national security; or (2) the report contains proprietary information. (c) the head of the agency posting such report shall do so only after such report has been [[page h4180]] made available to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate for not less than 45 days except as otherwise specified in law. sec. 525. (a) funding provided in this act for ``operations and support'' may be used for minor procurement, construction, and improvements. (b) for purposes of subsection (a), ``minor'' refers to end items with a unit cost of $250,000 or less for personal property, and $2,000,000 or less for real property. sec. 526. the authority provided by section 532 of the department of homeland security appropriations act, 2018 (public law 115-141) regarding primary and secondary schooling of dependents shall continue in effect during fiscal year 2025. sec. 527. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available to the department of homeland security by this act may be used to prevent any of the following persons from entering, for the purpose of conducting oversight, any facility operated by or for the department of homeland security used to detain or otherwise house aliens, or to make any temporary modification at any such facility that in any way alters what is observed by a visiting member of congress or such designated employee, compared to what would be observed in the absence of such modification: (1) a member of congress; and (2) an employee of the united states house of representatives or the united states senate designated by such a member for the purposes of this section. (b) nothing in this section may be construed to require a member of congress to provide prior notice of the intent to enter a facility described in subsection (a) for the purpose of conducting oversight. (c) with respect to individuals described in subsection (a)(2), the department of homeland security may require that a request be made at least 24 hours in advance of an intent to enter a facility described in subsection (a). sec. 528. (a) except as provided in subsection (b), none of the funds made available in this act may be used to place restraints on a woman in the custody of the department of homeland security (including during transport, in a detention facility, or at an outside medical facility) who is pregnant or in post-delivery recuperation. (b) subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to a pregnant woman if-- (1) an appropriate official of the department of homeland security makes an individualized determination that the woman-- (a) is a serious flight risk, and such risk cannot be prevented by other means; or (b) poses an immediate and serious threat to harm herself or others that cannot be prevented by other means; or (2) a medical professional responsible for the care of the pregnant woman determines that the use of therapeutic restraints is appropriate for the medical safety of the woman. (c) if a pregnant woman is restrained pursuant to subsection (b), only the safest and least restrictive restraints, as determined by the appropriate medical professional treating the woman, may be used. in no case may restraints be used on a woman who is in active labor or delivery, and in no case may a pregnant woman be restrained in a face-down position with four-point restraints, on her back, or in a restraint belt that constricts the area of the pregnancy. a pregnant woman who is immobilized by restraints shall be positioned, to the maximum extent feasible, on her left side. sec. 529. (a) none of the funds made available by this act may be used to destroy any document, recording, or other record pertaining to any-- (1) death of; (2) potential sexual assault or abuse perpetrated against; or (3) allegation of abuse, criminal activity, or disruption committed by an individual held in the custody of the department of homeland security. (b) the records referred to in subsection (a) shall be made available, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and federal rules governing disclosure in litigation, to an individual who has been charged with a crime, been placed into segregation, or otherwise punished as a result of an allegation described in paragraph (3), upon the request of such individual. sec. 530. section 519 of division f of public law 114-113, regarding a prohibition on funding for any position designated as a principal federal official, shall apply with respect to any federal funds in the same manner as such section applied to funds made available in that act. sec. 531. (a) not later than 10 days after the date on which the budget of the president for a fiscal year is submitted to congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, united states code, the under secretary for management of homeland security shall submit to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate a report on the unfunded priorities, for the department of homeland security and separately for each departmental component, for which discretionary funding would be classified as budget function 050. (b) each report under this section shall specify, for each such unfunded priority-- (1) a summary description, including the objectives to be achieved if such priority is funded (whether in whole or in part); (2) the description, including the objectives to be achieved if such priority is funded (whether in whole or in part); (3) account information, including the following (as applicable): (a) appropriation account; and (b) program, project, or activity name; and (4) the additional number of full-time or part-time positions to be funded as part of such priority. (c) in this section, the term ``unfunded priority'', in the case of a fiscal year, means a requirement that-- (1) is not funded in the budget referred to in subsection (a); (2) is necessary to fulfill a requirement associated with an operational or contingency plan for the department; and (3) would have been recommended for funding through the budget referred to in subsection (a) if-- (a) additional resources had been available for the budget to fund the requirement; (b) the requirement has emerged since the budget was formulated; or (c) the requirement is necessary to sustain prior-year investments. sec. 532. (a) not later than 10 days after a determination is made by the president to evaluate and initiate protection under any authority for a former or retired government official or employee, or for an individual who, during the duration of the directed protection, will become a former or retired government official or employee (referred to in this section as a ``covered individual''), the secretary of homeland security shall submit a notification to congressional leadership and the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate, the committees on the judiciary of the house of representatives and the senate, the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives, the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate, and the committee on oversight and reform of the house of representatives (referred to in this section as the ``appropriate congressional committees''). (b) such notification may be submitted in classified form, if necessary, and in consultation with the director of national intelligence or the director of the federal bureau of investigation, as appropriate, and shall include the threat assessment, scope of the protection, and the anticipated cost and duration of such protection. (c) not later than 15 days before extending, or 30 days before terminating, protection for a covered individual, the secretary of homeland security shall submit a notification regarding the extension or termination and any change to the threat assessment to the congressional leadership and the appropriate congressional committees. (d) not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this act, and quarterly thereafter, the secretary shall submit a report to the congressional leadership and the appropriate congressional committees, which may be submitted in classified form, if necessary, detailing each covered individual, and the scope and associated cost of protection. sec. 533. (a) none of the funds provided to the department of homeland security in this or any prior act may be used by an agency to submit an initial project proposal to the technology modernization fund (as authorized by section 1078 of subtitle g of title x of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2018 (public law 115-91)) unless, concurrent with the submission of an initial project proposal to the technology modernization board, the head of the agency-- (1) notifies the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate of the proposed submission of the project proposal; (2) submits to the committees on appropriations a copy of the project proposal; and (3) provides a detailed analysis of how the proposed project funding would supplement or supplant funding requested as part of the department's most recent budget submission. (b) none of the funds provided to the department of homeland security by the technology modernization fund shall be available for obligation until 15 days after a report on such funds has been transmitted to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate. (c) the report described in subsection (b) shall include-- (1) the full project proposal submitted to and approved by the fund's technology modernization board; (2) the finalized interagency agreement between the department and the fund including the project's deliverables and repayment terms, as applicable; (3) a detailed analysis of how the project will supplement or supplant existing funding available to the department for similar activities; (4) a plan for how the department will repay the fund, including specific planned funding sources, as applicable; and (5) other information as determined by the secretary. sec. 534. within 60 days of any budget submission for the department of homeland security for fiscal year 2026 that assumes revenues or proposes a reduction from the previous year based on user fees proposals that have not been enacted into law prior to the submission of the budget, the secretary of homeland security shall provide the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate specific reductions in proposed discretionary budget authority commensurate with the revenues assumed in such proposals in the event that they are not enacted prior to october 1, 2025. sec. 535. none of the funds made available by this act may be obligated or expended to implement the arms trade treaty until the senate approves a resolution of ratification for the treaty. sec. 536. no federal funds made available to the department of homeland security may be used to enter into a procurement contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative agreement with, or make a grant to, or provide [[page h4181]] a loan or guarantee to, any entity identified under section 1260h of the william m. (mac) thornberry national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2021 (public law 116-283) or any subsidiary of such entity. sec. 537. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this or any other act may be used to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release to or within the united states, its territories, or possessions khalid sheikh mohammed or any other detainee who-- (1) is not a united states citizen or a member of the armed forces of the united states; and (2) is or was held on or after june 24, 2009, at the united states naval station, guantanamo bay, cuba, by the department of defense. sec. 538. (a) the secretary of homeland security (in this section referred to as the ``secretary'') shall, on a bimonthly basis beginning immediately after the date of enactment of this act, develop estimates of the number of aliens anticipated to arrive at the southwest border of the united states. (b) the secretary shall ensure that, at a minimum, the estimates developed pursuant to subsection (a)-- (1) cover the current fiscal year and the following fiscal year; (2) include a breakout by demographics, to include single adults, family units, and unaccompanied children; (3) undergo an independent validation and verification review; (4) are used to inform policy planning and budgeting processes within the department of homeland security; and (5) are included in the budget materials submitted to congress for each fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this act and in support of-- (a) the president's annual budget request pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, united states code; (b) any supplemental funding request submitted to congress; (c) any reprogramming and transfer notification pursuant to section 503 of this act; and (d) such budget materials shall include-- (i) the most recent bimonthly estimates developed pursuant to subsection (a); (ii) a description and quantification of the estimates used to justify funding requests for department programs related to border security, immigration enforcement, and immigration services; (iii) a description and quantification of the anticipated workload and requirements resulting from such estimates; and (iv) a confirmation as to whether the budget requests for impacted agencies were developed using the same estimates. (c) the secretary shall share the bimonthly estimates developed pursuant to subsection (a) with the secretary of health and human services, the attorney general, the secretary of state, and the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate. (d) if the bimonthly estimates described in subsection (b) are not provided for the purposes described, the reprogramming and transfer authority provided in section 503 of this act shall be suspended until such time as the required estimates are provided to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate. sec. 539. (a) prior to the secretary of homeland security requesting assistance from the department of defense for border security operations, the secretary shall ensure that an alternatives analysis and cost-benefit analysis is conducted before such request is made, which shall include an examination of obtaining such support through other means. (b) not later than 30 days after the date on which a request for assistance is made, the secretary of homeland security shall submit to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate a report detailing the types of support requested, the alternatives analysis and cost-benefit analysis described in subsection (a), and the operational impact to department of homeland security operations of any department of defense border security support requested by the secretary. (c) not later than 30 days after the date on which a request made for assistance is granted and quarterly thereafter through the duration of such assistance, the secretary of homeland security shall submit to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate, a report detailing the assistance provided and the operational impacts to border security operations. sec. 540. funds made available in this act or any other act for operations and support may be used for the necessary expenses of providing an employee emergency back-up care program. sec. 541. (a) not less than $5,000,000 made available in this act shall be transferred to ``u.s. immigration and customs enforcement--operations and support'' to support and conduct necessary operations of the blue campaign for fiscal year 2025. (b) prior to the obligation of funds made available by subsection (a), notification shall be submitted to the committees on appropriations of the house of representatives and the senate. sec. 542. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act or any other act shall be used to execute an inspection of a detention facility that is in a contractual agreement with u.s. immigration and customs enforcement for the provision of detention services and that is subject to the terms, conditions, and standards found within the national detention standards for non-dedicated facilities, as revised in 2019 for u.s. immigration and customs enforcement, except solely for compliance with the terms, conditions, and standards found within the national detention standards for non-dedicated facilities, as revised in 2019. (b) executions of inspections described in subsection (a) shall not occur within six months of a previous inspection of such facility, except with respect to inspections executed by the office of inspector general. sec. 543. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to implement, administer, or enforce the rule entitled ``circumvention of lawful pathways'' (88 fed. reg. 11704). sec. 544. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to establish or support the activities of a disinformation governance board at the department of homeland security, or any other similar entity carrying out activities relating to disinformation in a similar manner or to a similar extent to such a board. sec. 545. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to: (a) classify or facilitate the classification of any communications by a united states person as mis-, dis-, or mal-information; or (b) partner with or fund nonprofit or other organizations that pressure or recommend private companies to censor lawful and constitutionally protected speech of united states persons, including recommending the censoring or removal of content on social media platforms. (c) any officer or employee of the federal government whose salary is funded by this act and who conducts any activity described in (a) or (b) shall be removed from the federal service. sec. 546. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to implement, administer, apply, enforce, or carry out the equity action plan of the department of homeland security, or executive order no. 13985 of january 20, 2021 (86 fed. reg. 7009, relating to advancing racial equity and support for underserved communities through the federal government), executive order no. 14035 of june 25, 2021 (86 fed. reg. 34593, relating to diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility in the federal workforce), executive order no. 14091 of february 16, 2023 (88 fed. reg. 10825 relating to further advancing racial equity and support for underserved communities through the federal government) or any program, project, or activity that promotes or advances critical race theory or any concept associated with critical race theory. sec. 547. (a) in general.--notwithstanding section 7 of title 1, united states code, section 1738c of title 28, united states code, or any other provision of law, none of the funds provided by this act, or previous appropriations acts, shall be used in whole or in part to take any discriminatory action against a person, wholly or partially, on the basis that such person speaks, or acts, in accordance with a sincerely held religious belief, or moral conviction, that marriage is, or should be recognized as, a union of one man and one woman. (b) discriminatory action defined.--as used in subsection (a), a discriminatory action means any action taken by the federal government to-- (1) alter in any way the federal tax treatment of, or cause any tax, penalty, or payment to be assessed against, or deny, delay, or revoke an exemption from taxation under section 501(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986 of, any person referred to in subsection (a); (2) disallow a deduction for federal tax purposes of any charitable contribution made to or by such person; (3) withhold, reduce the amount or funding for, exclude, terminate, or otherwise make unavailable or deny, any federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, guarantee, loan, scholarship, license, certification, accreditation, employment, or other similar position or status from or to such person; (4) withhold, reduce, exclude, terminate, or otherwise make unavailable or deny, any entitlement or benefit under a federal benefit program, including admission to, equal treatment in, or eligibility for a degree from an educational program, from or to such person; or (5) withhold, reduce, exclude, terminate, or otherwise make unavailable or deny access or an entitlement to federal property, facilities, educational institutions, speech fora (including traditional, limited, and nonpublic fora), or charitable fundraising campaigns from or to such person. (c) accreditation; licensure; certification.--the federal government shall consider accredited, licensed, or certified for purposes of federal law any person that would be accredited, licensed, or certified, respectively, for such purposes but for a determination against such person wholly or partially on the basis that the person speaks, or acts, in accordance with a sincerely held religious belief or moral conviction described in subsection (a). sec. 548. (a) none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available in this or any other act may be used to license, facilitate, coordinate, or otherwise allow officials of a country designated as a state sponsor of terrorism within the past three fiscal years, to, in their capacity as an official, observe, tour, visit, or confer with the employees of the department of homeland security. (b) the term ``state sponsor of terrorism'' means a country the government of which the secretary of state determines has repeatedly provided support for international terrorism pursuant to section 1754(c)(1)(a) of the export control reform act of 2018 (50 u.s.c. 4813(c)(1)(a)); section 620a of the foreign assistance act of 1961 (22 u.s.c. 2371); section 40 of the arms export control act (22 u.s.c. 2780); or any other provision of law. sec. 549. none of the funds made available by this act may be used to obligate or award funds to a political subdivision of a state that-- (a) has in effect any law, policy, or procedure, whether written or communicated orally, in contravention of, or which substantially limits compliance with, subsection (a) or (b) of section 642 [[page h4182]] of the illegal immigration reform and immigration responsibility act of 1996 (8 u.s.c. 1373); or (b) has in effect any law, policy, or procedure, whether written or communicated orally, the result of which hinders the federal government from enforcing the immigration laws as defined by 8 u.s.c. 101(a)(17). (rescissions of funds) sec. 550. of the funds appropriated to the department of homeland security, the following funds are hereby rescinded from the following accounts and programs in the specified amounts: provided, that no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget or the balanced budget and emergency deficit control act of 1985: (1) $600,000,000 from the unobligated balances available under the heading ``u.s. customs and border protection-- procurement, construction, and improvements'' of the amounts provided by public law 116-260 for the construction of barrier system along the southwest border. sec. 551. of the unobligated balances in the ``department of homeland security nonrecurring expenses fund'' established in section 538 of division f of public law 117-103, $154,000,000 are hereby rescinded. spending reduction account sec. 552. $0. this act may be cited as the ``department of homeland security appropriations act, 2025.'' the chair. all points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. no further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order except those printed in part c of house report 118-559, amendments en bloc described in section 13 of house resolution 1316, and pro forma amendments described in section 14 of that resolution. each further amendment printed in part c of the report shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment except as provided in section 14 of house resolution 1316, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question. it shall be in order at any time for the chair of the committee on appropriations or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of amendments printed in part c of the report not earlier disposed of. amendments en bloc shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on appropriations or their designees, shall not be subject to amendment, except as provided in section 14 of house resolution 1316, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question. during consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on appropriations or their respective designees may offer up to 10 pro forma amendments each at any point for the purpose of debate. amendments en bloc no. 1 offered by mr. amodei of nevada mr. amodei. madam chair, pursuant to house resolution 1316, i offer amendments en bloc. the chair. the clerk will designate the amendments en bloc. amendments en bloc no. 1 consisting of amendment nos. 3, 6, 7, 8, 10, 13, 16, 17, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 40, 41, 47, 49, 51, 60, and 61 printed in part c of house report 118-559, offered by mr. amodei of nevada: amendment no. 3 offered by mr. bacon of nebraska page 58, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000)''. amendment no. 6 offered by mr. buchanan of florida page 2, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $3,000,000)''. page 18, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,000,000)''. page 18, line 20, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,000,000)''. page 18, line 21, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,000,000)''. amendment no. 7 offered by mr. buchanan of florida page 2, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $4,000,000)''. page 12, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $4,000,000)''. amendment no. 8 offered by mr. buchanan of florida page 2, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $3,000,000)''. page 58, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $3,000,000)''. amendment no. 10 offered by ms. castor of florida page 45, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $305,000,000) (increased by ($305,000,000)''. amendment no. 13 offered by mr. garbarino of new york page 45, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $80,000,000) (reduced by $80,000,000)''. amendment no. 16 offered by mr. gottheimer of new jersey page 43, line 24, after the first dollar amount insert ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 17 offered by mr. gottheimer of new jersey page 11, line 4, after the dollar amount insert ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 21 offered by mr. james of michigan page 1, line 14, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $20,000,000)''. page 16, line 20, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $20,000,000)''. amendment no. 22 offered by mrs. kim of california page 24, line 17, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 23 offered by mr. lalota of new york page 16, line 1, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 24 offered by mr. lalota of new york page 16, line 20, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 25 offered by mr. lalota of new york page 15, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $35,000,000) (increased by $35,000,000)''. amendment no. 26 offered by mr. levin of california page 11, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 27 offered by mr. levin of california page 12, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 28 offered by mr. mccaul of texas page 43, line 24, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $8,000,000) (increased by $8,000,000)''. amendment no. 31 offered by mr. molinaro of new york page 1, line 14, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 43, line 24, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 33 offered by mr. moylan of guam page 16, line 20, after dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 34 offered by mr. moylan of guam page 43, line 24, after first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 35 offered by mr. moylan of guam page 15, line 6, after dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''. amendment no. 36 offered by mr. moylan of guam page 12, line 8, after dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 40 offered by mr. norman of south carolina page 11, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 41 offered by mr. norman of south carolina page 11, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''. amendment no. 47 offered by mr. pascrell of new jersey page 2, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $15,000,000)''. page 44, line 12, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $15,000,000)''. page 46, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $15,000,000)''. page 46, line 7, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $7,500,000)''. page 46, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $7,500,000)''. amendment no. 49 offered by mr. peters of california page 1, line 14, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000) (decreased by $10,000,000)''. amendment no. 51 offered by mrs. radewagen of american samoa page 1, line 14, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $1,650,000)''. page 16, line 1, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $1,650,000)''. amendment no. 60 offered by mrs. wagner of missouri page 2, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. [[page h4183]] page 12, line 20, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $4,000,000)''. page 12, line 20, after the second dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $4,000,000)''. amendment no. 61 offered by mrs. wagner of missouri page 2, line 10, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $3,000,000)''. page 12, line 20, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,000,000)''. page 12, line 24, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $2,000,000)''. the chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from nevada (mr. amodei) and the gentlewoman from illinois (ms. underwood) each will control 10 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from nevada. mr. amodei. madam chair, the bipartisan en bloc amendment before you is comprised of 28 amendments offered by my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. this en bloc amendment contains proposals that will strengthen the underlying bill. i want to highlight just a few. it would provide additional funding to bolster investigations for exploited children within secret service and homeland security investigations. it highlights the coast guard's ongoing need for assets, infrastructure, and maintenance funding. it emphasizes the importance of nonintrusive inspection equipment for cbp ports of entry to improve detection of fentanyl and other opioids that plague communities across our country. it increases funds for fema grant programs for firefighters and other first responders and highlights the importance of grants that fund physical security improvements for nonprofit organizations at risk of terrorist attack. again, i thank my colleagues for their participation in this process, i urge members to support this bipartisan en bloc, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. madam chair, i rise in support of this amendment. i thank chairman amodei for working with us to include these bipartisan priorities in this amendment. while i do have some concerns about the extent to which some of these accounts would be cut by these amendments, i trust that we will be able to address those problems before this bill becomes law. madam chair, i urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. amodei. madam chair, i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from missouri (mrs. wagner). mrs. wagner. madam chair, i thank the chairman for yielding me time. i have an amendment, madam chair, in this en bloc. i rise today in support of my amendment which would provide a fully offset and fully paid for 67 percent funding increase for investigations of forced child labor. madam chairman, as a direct result of the biden administration's refusal to properly enforce the law, there is a humanitarian catastrophe underway at our southern border. since president biden took office, 10 million illegal migrants have flooded our borders, including 8 million encountered by border patrol, 1.7 million got-aways, and some 500,000 unaccompanied children. by law, the biden administration is required to ensure these unaccompanied minors are protected from human trafficking. instead, the administration has been essentially giving these children away with zero regard for their safety. it has been exposed that the biden administration completely lost track of some 85,000 children, ignored countless warnings that these children were being trafficked, and fired employees for speaking out. there are even instances where the administration gave these children to adults without simply checking or vetting if the adult had even abused children or had a relationship with them in the past. madam chairman, this level of neglect and callousness is unspeakable, and we must ensure the department of homeland security has the resources necessary to investigate each and every case. madam chairman, i urge my colleagues to support my amendment and the entire en bloc. mr. amodei. madam chairman, i yield back the balance of my time. the chair. the question is on the amendments en bloc offered by the gentleman from nevada (mr. amodei). the en bloc amendments were agreed to. amendment no. 1 offered by mr. armstrong the chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 1 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. armstrong. madam chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. (a) none of the funds made available by this act may be used-- (1) to reduce the hours of operation at-- (a) the port of carbury, north dakota, port of entry from the operational hours of 9:00 am to 10:00 pm ct daily; (b) the port of fortuna, north dakota, port of entry from the operational hours of 9:00 am to 10:00 pm ct daily; (c) the port of madia, north dakota, port of entry from the operational hours of 9:00 am to 10:00 pm ct daily; (d) the port of neche, north dakota, port of entry from the operational hours of 8:00 am to 10:00 pm ct daily; (e) the port of noonan, north dakota, port of entry from the operational hours of 9:00 am to 10:00 pm ct daily; (f) the port of northgate, north dakota, port of entry from the operational hours of 9:00 am to 10:00 pm ct daily; (g) the port of saint john, north dakota, port of entry from the operational hours of 8:00 am to 9:00 pm ct daily; (h) the port of sherwood, north dakota, port of entry from the operational hours of 9:00 am to 10:00 pm ct daily; (i) the port of walhalla, north dakota, port of entry from the operational hours of 8:00 am to 10:00 pm ct daily; (j) the port of westhope, north dakota, port of entry from the operational hours of 8:00 am to 9:00 pm ct daily; (k) the port of antler, north dakota, port of entry from the operational hours of 9:00 am to 10:00 pm ct daily; (l) the port of sarles, north dakota, port of entry from the operational hours of 11:00 am to 7:00 pm ct daily; (m) the port of lancaster, minnesota, port of entry from the operational hours of 8:00 am to 10:00 pm ct daily; (n) the port of roseau, minnesota, port of entry from the operational hours of 8:00 am to 12:00 am ct daily; (o) the porthill, idaho, land port of entry, from the operational hours of 7:00 am to 11:00 pm pt daily; or (p) the port of buffalo, new york, port of entry from the operational hours of 7:00 am to 12:00am et daily; (2) to implement, administer, enforce, carry out, or execute any rules, guidance, decisions, announcements, or promulgations that reduce or change the hours of operation at the ports of entry specified in paragraph (1); or (3) to publish, promulgate, or otherwise issue rules, guidance, decisions, announcements, or promulgations that reduce or change the hours of operation at the ports of entry specified in paragraph (1). (b) the limitation described in paragraph (1) may not be construed to apply in the case of the administration of a tax or tariff. the chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from north dakota (mr. armstrong) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from north dakota. mr. armstrong. madam chair, it is pretty hard to get farther away from the southern border than grand forks, north dakota, but in grand forks, just like many communities across north dakota, somebody is dying from fentanyl poisoning, and 100 percent of those pills are made by cartels in mexico. i rise today in support of my amendment no. 1 to the fiscal year 2025 department of homeland security appropriations. if passed, this amendment will defund the implementation of covid-19- era guidance that reduces the hours of operation for customs and border protection at certain northern border points of entry. bringing these ports of entry hours back to their pre-pandemic schedule will help our border patrol agents respond to a massive increase in border encounters and non-marijuana-related drug seizures in places like north dakota, idaho, minnesota, and western new york. according to cbp data, both land encounters and drug smuggling have skyrocketed in the past few years. specifically, in january of 2021, there were only 997 northern land border encounters. contrast that with january of 2024 when there were 15,800 encounters. that is a 1,484 percent increase. [[page h4184]] excluding marijuana, drug smuggling has also increased by 1,153 percent along the borders between fiscal year 2021 and 2023. due to the biden administration's failure to secure our southwest border, our border patrol agents at the northern border have had to revert resources and personnel to the southwest border. because of that, the northern border is now suffering. while we wholly support cbp and its efforts, we must ensure that full staffing and scheduling are enforced so we can be fully prepared to secure our northern border. since the onset of the covid-19 pandemic, cbp reduced the hours of many of the ports of entry to mitigate the spread of the virus. though the pandemic has long been over, those shortened hours have stayed in place. {time} 1200 this amendment would return those ports of entry to schedules they operated under before the pandemic. while cbp has extended hours for some of the ports, others have been forgotten. along with several northern border security caucus members here in congress, i have had lots of back and forth with the cbp regarding these hours. expanding these hours will not only allow more staffing to apprehend and seize any illegal activity attempting to cross the border, but it will also greatly help the needs of americans at the northern border. these ports of entry serve a vital role in connecting our states' economies with our neighbor, canada. our constituents heavily rely on them for tourism, church, trade, travel, healthcare, tribal connections, and more. since these hours remain shortened, we have heard from countless constituents about how they no longer can do many of the activities that i just mentioned, activities that they could do before with expanded hours. the ports of entry listed in this amendment used to serve as robust and active points of movement where our constituents could freely travel back and forth from the u.s. and canada, and that needs to happen again. while we understand the cbp believes these ports of entry should solely be based on vehicular and pedestrian traffic, we know, because we have heard from our constituents, that the travelers are much less likely to use the ports given the shortened hours. in my state specifically, the antler and carbury stations were both open from 9 a.m. until 10 p.m. however, since the pandemic, their hours have remained from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. that is a 40 percent reduction. requiring these ports to close early forces travelers to reroute to other ports of entry with longer hours. take ms. rebecca davis from walhalla, north dakota. during our northern border hearing that the house judiciary committee hosted in grand forks, she mentioned that what should be a quick trip takes several hours. she highlighted that our small towns--and when i say small towns, i mean really small towns--often get wrapped in the red tape of legal commerce on the border at the same time when we allow the open flow of illegal commerce on the southern border. this truly affects everyone in the ag community, the small towns, and every small sheriff's department on the northern border that has to divert resources to do a job that the federal government is supposed to do. detours are particularly costly to commercial vehicles and ag vehicle operators due to rising inflation and high fuel costs. it is long past time that we change those hours back to pre-pandemic levels for good. we need all the hours and resources we can to ensure our borders are fully secure. this will also bring back our high traveler activity along the northern border that results in more travel, tourism, and more. i strongly support this amendment. madam chair, i yield back the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair (mr. norman). the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, cbp conducts significant analysis when it comes to setting port of entry hours, which includes traffic trends, staffing availability, and the presence of other ports of entry within a reasonable distance. cbp also considers the economic ramifications of what a closure might have on local communities. altering port of entry hours is not a decision made lightly. removing cbp's discretion to limit hours for these ports of entry sets a bad precedent that fails to allow for the consideration of other compelling national and local threats that cbp must consider. unfortunately, this is just another example of an overly restrictive policy that unnecessarily ties the administration's hands when working to protect the american people. i must respectfully oppose this amendment. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from north dakota (mr. armstrong). the amendment was agreed to. the acting chair. the chair understands that amendment no. 2 will not be offered. amendment no. 4 offered by mr. biggs the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 4 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. biggs. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be used to pay the salary and expenses of the position of the secretary of the department of homeland security, occupied by alejandro mayorkas. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from arizona (mr. biggs) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from arizona. mr. biggs. mr. chair, many people may not know this, but nbc news recently reported that more than 400 illegal aliens who are affiliates of isis were released into the united states under this administration's watch. they have caught some of them, but they still have a significant number of them out. do you know what they said? gee, if we could have enforced the law, we would not have released them into the country, and we could have rounded them up and prevented them from ever getting into the country. the reason i bring that up is because i am speaking in support of my amendment, which prohibits the use of funds to pay the salary and the expenses of the position of the dhs secretary. who is the dhs secretary? who is this individual? it is the person who has been the architect of the open-border policy. i think one of my colleagues from florida, who was on the floor here just a moment ago, said it is a fictional invasion. really? it is 10 million people in 2\1/2\, 3 years. they started setting records when? february 2021. they have set records every month since. who is in charge of that? alejandro mayorkas, the secretary. in fact, this body was so disenchanted with his policies that we impeached secretary mayorkas. when he was confronted with: do you have operational control of the border? he said, in a judiciary hearing, you know what, hey, we do not like that. first, he said, yes, we have operational control. we gave him the statute. are you at operational control? well, you know, we basically devised our own definition. that is the person who is occupying the homeland security chair right now, and they have incentivized literally millions of people to come into this country. that is the lawlessness that has brought people to their knees in many communities around this country. we are still trying to get information from the dhs and the department of defense about the terrorists who attempted to infiltrate quantico just about 6 weeks ago. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. [[page h4185]] ms. underwood. mr. chairman, i rise in strong opposition to this amendment. the secretary of homeland security plays a critical role in our national security. secretary mayorkas has served in his role admirably and has been an honorable public servant for decades, including service as a u.s. attorney, the director of uscis, and the deputy secretary of homeland security. if my majority colleagues were sincere about addressing and ending the humanitarian crisis at the border, they would not have rejected the opportunity to even debate one of the toughest bipartisan border bills in history simply to appease the desires of those who wish to keep chaos at the border for political gain. when the president and secretary mayorkas requested additional resources to secure the border, my colleagues across the aisle ignored that, too. they even demanded that we ``take care of our own border first'' before we consider providing any funding to ukraine and our other allies. my colleagues and i remain ready to address the challenges facing the department of homeland security and to work toward building a modern immigration system that reflects the realities of the world we live in today and advances the best interests of american families, businesses, and communities. in addition, i would be remiss if i did not point out that this amendment raises serious constitutional issues. punishing the secretary is not the way to handle policy disputes. unfortunately, this amendment prioritizes legislative theater over the american people. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. biggs. mr. chair, i get a kick when i hear democrats say that the so-called bipartisan bill out of the senate would have solved this problem. do you know what that bill did? it granted amnesty. do you know what it did? it set a floor of 2,500 illegal aliens every day who get to come in. guess what else it did? they provided loophole after loophole. there is no limit on unaccompanied children, and hundreds of thousands have come in. they have misplaced over 100,000 now. they are just so irresponsible. we heard people talk about an ineffective and outdated policy. do you know what worked? that ineffective and outdated policy. do you know why? because it secured the border. we had the most secure border in about, i do not know, our nation's history under president trump. when they came in, president biden issued 93 eos. guess what? you have a mass invasion on the border. what is it called? they called it a useless border wall. do you know who voted for that border wall originally? that is right, people like hillary clinton. they voted for that border wall. they do not want a border wall. i have on my phone images from the tucson sector of people dressed in camo bringing drugs across interdicted just the other day. do you know why they were going near the san miguel gate, which i have taken colleagues to before? because there is no fence. in arizona, we largely have no fences. here is the deal: this homeland security secretary is the one who gave us this policy. i can say what i heard from these people. i can say what they said: ineffective, outdated policies. they said these people are legally entitled to refugee status. under what law? under international law. how about the first safe nation law? they are required to obey that. guess what? that is what the u.s. law is, as well--the first safe harbor, the first safe state. that is where someone who wants refugee status comes in, but they are not seeking refugee status. they are seeking asylum. do you know who sought asylum? the two outrageous murderers who just murdered that 12-year-old girl in houston. they were released under asylum requests. they went and had the cartel cut off their ankle bracelets. that is what is happening. that is why this secretary, this position, which we are defunding correctly under the holman rule, should not be funded, mr. chairman. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from arizona (mr. biggs). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from arizona will be postponed. amendment no. 5 offered by mr. biggs the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 5 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. biggs. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. ___. none of the funds made available by this act may be made available to implement, administer, or otherwise carry out the activities and policies described in the rule entitled, ``public charge ground of inadmissibility'', published by the secretary of homeland security on september 9, 2022. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from arizona (mr. biggs) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from arizona. mr. biggs. mr. chair, i rise in support of my amendment, which prohibits funding from being used to implement the dhs 2022 rule that allows illegal aliens to receive more government subsidies. under our immigration law, one ground of inadmissibility for aliens is if they are likely to become a public charge. that is in the statute. that is to say, if they are going to be a financial burden to the american people due to the likelihood that they will rely on public assistance programs, they are inadmissible. however, in 2022, the dhs weakened this rule by excluding a whole host of government benefit programs, including medicaid. what does this mean? first, it gives the biden administration more excuses to allow millions of illegal aliens into the country by doing away with one standard that would legally disqualify many people. second, it allows the biden administration to explicitly pay illegal aliens to be in the country with taxpayer dollars, which has always been their plan. third, it creates a major pull factor or incentive for people who are thinking of crossing the border to actually cross the border illegally. there is evidence of this. just talk to the people crossing the border. i have. i have gone down to the border many times. i take people with me, members of congress, all the time. when you ask people, they will say they heard the u.s. government was going to pay them to be here--i have actually had people say this--and that they will take me where i want to go. why would not they say that? it is true. can someone tell me any policy by this administration that discourages illegal aliens from entering the country? there is not one serious policy that actually deters immigration. this is why we must vote to end this open border dhs rule and stop giving federal dollars to illegal aliens. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. {time} 1215 ms. underwood. mr. chairman, i rise in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, this is yet another cruel and inhumane attempt by the majority to penalize legal immigrants for accessing health benefits and other government services available to them. the amendment attempts to revert to a trump-era public charge rule in 2019 that temporarily disrupted a decades-long policy. the trump-era rule faced several legal challenges, leading to injunctions and halts in its implementation and costing the taxpayers every time the administration attempted to defend it in court. the biden administration's rule merely restores the historical understanding of a public charge back to [[page h4186]] what had been in place for decades. under the biden administration rule, we align with decades-long policy that simply requires immigration officials to consider whether a noncitizen will become dependent on cash benefits. this is something i would imagine american taxpayers would like to know. nonetheless, i think it is also important to point out that the idea that immigrants somehow harm our economy or are a net cost to taxpayers is false. for example, earlier this year, the assistant secretary for planning and evaluation within the department of health and human services published a report on the fiscal impact of refugees and asylees at the federal, state, and local levels from 2005 to 2019. one of the key points of the study was this: the net fiscal impact of refugees and asylees was positive over the 15-year period at $123.8 billion, billion with a b, meaning that refugees and asylees contributed more revenue than they cost in expenditures to the american taxpayers. their net fiscal benefit to the federal government was estimated at $31.5 billion, and the net fiscal benefit to state and local governments was estimated at $92.3 billion. while i cannot speak to the intentions behind the gentleman's amendment, i will note that this amendment will not even accomplish what my colleagues think it will. since the trump-era rule was rescinded, the effect of this amendment, if enacted, would be to simply revert back to the 1999 guidance, which is essentially the same as the current rule that is being implemented. this amendment is just another baseless waste of time that does nothing to advance the best interests of americans. i will vote ``no,'' and i encourage my colleagues to do the same. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. biggs. mr. chairman, the senate bill that my colleagues love so much did not ever make it over here. it did not make cloture twice in the senate. my colleagues can continue to yell and scream, but we passed h.r. 2, which is laying over there in chuck schumer's lap, who is refusing to move it. let us talk a little bit about this cruel and inhumane business. do my colleagues on the other side of the aisle know what is cruel? how about for those who live in yuma, arizona, where the community has one hospital. there is one hospital. when there is an emergency, they do not have enough beds for you if you are a citizen because they are dealing with illegal aliens who have flooded that hospital. that is cruel and inhumane. do my colleagues know what happens? they air evac citizens to phoenix or san diego. that is cruel and inhumane. does the minority know what happens? let us say a citizen is pregnant. that maternity ward has 10 beds in it at yuma. most of the time, it is filled with illegal aliens who have come in. we just heard a lot about money, about this benefit. there are others who assert the exact opposite. the one thing that we do know for sure that everybody agrees on, right and left, if my colleagues actually talk to people who know something: there are remittances well in excess of $100 billion a year that go out from illegal aliens in this country. it is a cash flow. if my colleagues talk to leaders from the central american states or even representatives from mexico, they are going to tell members what the cash flow is that those remittances provide for them. in mexico, it is the number two leading cash flow for them. they come here because these individuals are incentivized to come here, in part, because of the public charge that we allow them to be on. that is why this amendment is crucial. if someone who is in this country illegally should not be here and is receiving benefits, should they receive the more than 90 social welfare benefits that this country, the federal government, provides? this administration has loosened the number of those benefits that are available to illegal aliens. that should not happen. we have a public charge rule. if you come in legally, you cannot get in, but my colleagues are wanting to say: well, if you are here illegally, that is okay. good grief. this is the statute. we are reverting to the statute that worked. that is why this amendment is critical. mr. chairman, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from arizona (mr. biggs). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 9 offered by mrs. cammack the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 9 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mrs. cammack. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. ___. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to implement, administer, or enforce any major rule under subparagraph (a) of section 804(2) of title 5, united states code. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentlewoman from florida (mrs. cammack) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from florida. mrs. cammack. mr. chairman, i rise today in support of my amendment, which would restrict funds at the department of homeland security from being used to finalize any rule or regulation that has an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more. some might know this language commonly as reins, regulations from the executive in need of scrutiny. it is no secret that the regulatory agencies today are out of control. under the biden administration, we have seen hundreds of billions, with a b, of dollars in regulatory costs fall on the shoulders of average americans without any input from their elected representatives in congress. my amendment seeks to restore congressional oversight and the people's voice over these regulations by requiring that any major rule proposed by these agencies must be approved by congress, a/k/a the people's house, before they go into effect. by including my amendment in this bill, we restore congress' article i authorities by bringing significant regulatory decisions back to the body that is closest to the will of the people. we will no longer allow unelected, nameless, faceless bureaucrats to impose regulatory costs behind closed doors, but, rather, commit ourselves to open, transparent governance. we have already seen the biden administration's outrageous border crisis having allowed more illegal immigrants into the country than the population of 43 u.s. states. nearly 1,400 pounds of deadly fentanyl has been seized at the border in just a single month, and 367 known suspected terrorists on the international terrorist watch list have crossed the border under the biden administration. this administration has waged war against the immigration system of the united states, and the results speak for themselves. it is a total failure. this commonsense amendment is a core part of our mission to reintroduce government accountability and to restore the elected representatives' voice in the process. by requiring congressional approval for major regulations, this amendment forces a thorough examination of the potential costs and benefits of proposed rules. this scrutiny is to prevent regulatory overreach, ensuring that regulations are grounded in sound science, economic reasoning, and the overall well-being of the american people, regardless of political affiliation. oftentimes, these regulations serve as a mechanism for agencies to sidestep congressional authority in crucial policy decisions. as the core legislative body, it is crucial for us to reaffirm our constitutional role and prevent any unwarranted expansion of regulatory powers. all in all, my amendment restores the people's voice in these significant federal agency decisions that impact our everyday lives. our nation needs major regulatory reform, and incorporating our amendment is a crucial step forward to a more transparent and accountable government for all americans. i encourage and urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this measure and standing up for our strongly held belief in a democratic government by [[page h4187]] the people, for the people, in our constitutional republic. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, i claim time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, the department of homeland security does not engage in rulemaking behind closed doors. there is a rulemaking process that involves the public. in fact, it was established by congress, and it has existed for decades. the amendment would prohibit dhs and its agencies from issuing major rules that are needed in order to implement and carry out laws enacted by congress. unfortunately, this is just another example of a bad policy rider aimed at unnecessarily tying the administration's hands. mr. chair, i oppose this amendment, and i urge my colleagues to do the same. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mrs. cammack. mr. chair, may i inquire as to how much time is remaining. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from florida has 2 minutes remaining. mrs. cammack. mr. chairman, in response to the notion that there is actually someone over there in the basement of these federal agencies listening to the american people who weigh in via comment on these proposed rules and regulations, that is laughable. in some cases, we have seen agencies take in more than 250,000 comments, different letters, and petitions from concerned citizens, associations, and organizations. they have fallen on deaf ears. in the case of dhs, they have worked tirelessly to put things up for a proposed rule, things like asylum eligibility and public health. one would think that members of the people's house would be the ones in charge of dictating asylum process. one would think that it would be members of congress who would actually be looking to develop legislation that would cover the modernization of h-2a programs or refugee appearances and interviews or the modernization regulations of nonimmigrant workers. i could provide hundreds of examples of different proposed rules and regulations that have bypassed congress, bypassed the people's house, and effectively silenced the american people's voice because we now have unelected, nameless, faceless bureaucrats and a hyperpoliticized administration shoving their political agenda down our throat. if we are going to restore our article i authority, it starts here, and it starts now. i encourage all of my colleagues to adopt this amendment. it is common sense. it is good for all parties involved. i do not care what side of the aisle you are on. the facts are exactly the same. we are elected representatives for the people and by the people. we need their voice here now more than ever. mr. chairman, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from florida (mrs. cammack). the amendment was agreed to. mr. kelly of pennsylvania. mr. chair, as the designee of chairman cole, i move to strike the last word. the acting chair. the gentleman from pennsylvania is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. kelly of pennsylvania. mr. chair, the gentleman from north dakota was here talking about what was happening in his state. i suggest for our colleagues to please take a look at the aftermath of what having open borders is doing to our country. when we look at the significance of not watching our borders, not guarding our borders, not paying attention to our borders, and totally ignoring the fact that these things really exist as opposed to, no, move on, there is nothing to see here, this legislation provides an increase in funding for the customs and border protection, which will allow them to more effectively do their job. this bill addresses the concerns of the often overlooked northern border. a lot of people say: i do not know why you are concerned about the northern border. i say: well, here is a little insight. it is 5,525 miles. it is the longest border between two countries in the world. it is virtually unwatched. that is not the fault of the customs and border protection people. they are overworked, underpaid, and very much underappreciated. in fiscal year 2022, u.s. border patrol agents had 2,238 encounters at the northern border. in fiscal year 2023, that number more than quadrupled to 10,021 encounters. through the first 7 months of fiscal year 2024, they have already encountered 9,460 individuals. as the summer months continue, that number will continue to skyrocket. if members can understand that statement, coming in the northern border during winter is not a good idea. the weather itself is the biggest inhibitor of that. however, it is very porous, it is very open, it is very unwatched, and it is very concerning, and should be, to the american people. {time} 1230 the amazement i have, and this is not about republicans versus democrats, this is people coming to represent their district in their part of this incredible country. this is not a republican issue. this is not a democrat issue. this is an issue about who is it that enforces these laws that are already on the books. when we go home, i hear all the time, you guys better do something about what is happening at the borders. my question always back to them is: do you know how many laws we have already passed? they say: no, i have no idea. i say: well, it is the enforcement of the laws that have been passed through the legislature that are going unwatched right now. we can continue down this road and say: move on, there is nothing to see here. there is nothing going on. there is really not a problem at the southern border. there is really not a problem at the northern border. in the meantime, the recipients of these illegals are the states that they end up in. when you hear about what our citizens are being denied because of taxpayer dollars being spent on a group--while we welcome the world to come to america, if your first act upon entering america is to break one of our laws, that is not a good way to start. when we look at what appropriations is doing, all we are asking for and all we are looking for is funding to protect our own borders. it is incredible to me that we have to have debate over what is actually taking place. one side says: we have a lot of concerns about this. the other side says: i do not know what you are concerned about. the problem does not exist. it does exist. it is real. the effect on america is long-lasting, and i do not know what the number is. i have heard it is 10,000, 11,000, 12,000. most people say: i do not know how many there are, but there are quite a few. the aftermath is the key. when we were in north dakota, we listened to two sheriffs who were exhausted because they do not have enough people to watch what is going on in their state. it is 24 hours a day, 7 days a week that they are concerned about what is happening. now, who is the problem? where is the problem? how do we fix the problem? we use taxpayer money virtually everywhere to protect our country. that is the first obligation of the federal government to protect the homeland. however, if you do not admit, or if you do not acknowledge that it is taking place, then you cannot fix it. the idea is, if you are going to invest taxpayer dollars, give them a return on that investment. make sure that we are protecting our very own people first. i welcome people coming to this country because that is how my family got here. they came in the right way, and they participated. we have an incredible dilemma going on right now, and i want people to think about this: 5,525 miles of border that is virtually unprotected. people talked about the balloon from china that came in. i love the way the administration addressed it. they let it come down through canada, come down through our country, and when it exited out into the atlantic ocean, we [[page h4188]] shot it down there. that is marvelous, but that is too late. mr. chair, i thank the gentleman from nevada for allowing me to speak on this. i would hope that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle acknowledge what is happening and understand that our first oath of office is to protect the homeland. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. amendment no. 11 offered by mr. clyde the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 11 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. clyde. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 43, line 11, strike the first dollar amount and insert ``$2,379,485,000''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from georgia (mr. clyde) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from georgia. mr. clyde. mr. chair, today, i am offering an amendment to flat fund the department of homeland security's cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency, also known as cisa, to keep it at the fy24 enacted level saving $57.8 million. on cisa's website, the mission reads: ``we lead the national effort to understand, manage, and reduce risk to our cyber and physical infrastructure.'' unfortunately, cisa has strayed far from this mission. two years ago, cisa was part of the infamous disinformation governance board, which was established at the department of homeland security to censor americans' free speech. while the so-called disinformation governance board was rightfully disbanded a few months later after enormous public outcry, many will be shocked to learn that cisa has not stopped monitoring and censoring americans' free speech. according to a 2022 news report: cisa drafted plans to target ``inaccurate information'' on a wide range of topics, including the origins of covid-19, the efficacy of the covid-19 vaccine, racial justice, the u.s. withdrawal from afghanistan, and the nature of u.s. support to ukraine. also, business records released by twitter suggest that cisa distorted its mission from protecting the nation's critical cyber and physical infrastructure into controlling what americans can say and what speech is acceptable online. this is terrible. americans' first amendment should not be regulated or controlled through government by proxy censorship. cisa was first created before my arrival in congress with bipartisan support. under the trump administration, cisa focused on foreign disinformation and countering foreign influence. unfortunately, since the current administration took office, cisa has aggressively shifted beyond the original mandate of countering foreign threats. in january 2021, cisa officials renamed the countering foreign influence task force, one of the key bodies of countering disinformation founded during the trump administration, to the ``mis-, dis-, and malinformation team,'' meaning they took the word ``foreign'' out of the title. last summer, the select subcommittee on the weaponization of the federal government released a report, titled: ``the weaponization of cisa: how a `cybersecurity' agency colluded with big tech and `disinformation' partners to censor americans.'' several disturbing details about cisa were released in this report, including that cisa is ``working with federal partners to mature a whole-of-government approach'' to curb alleged misinformation and disinformation and that cisa wanted to use the same taxpayer-funded nonprofits as its mouthpiece to ``avoid the appearance of government propaganda.'' this is simply censorship by proxy. last week, i had a conversation with the director of cisa, and she told me that this report by the select subcommittee on weaponization of the federal government is full of inaccuracies. basically, it is not worth the paper it is written on. i strongly disagree. i think our weaponization subcommittee has done a phenomenal job. cisa needs to return to its original mission of strengthening and protecting our national cybersecurity and infrastructure, not censoring americans' free speech. cisa's bloated budget and the agency's increased weaponization mission to police free speech has gone on simultaneously. there is a clear connection: given extraordinary increases in funding, cisa has used taxpayer dollars to censor americans and target speech that they find disagreeable. therefore, i offer an amendment to flat fund cisa to maintain the fy24 enacted level. this agency must be refocused on their true mission, not given more funding to continue undermining our constitutional rights. the only thing that gets agency attention in washington, d.c., is funding. by flat funding cisa for fy25 it is simply putting them on notice, a shot across the bow would be the navy way of saying it, to get their attention and cease the weaponization of this agency. mr. chair, i hope that all members of this committee will support this amendment to correct this weaponized agency and thereby defend our first amendment rights for all americans. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. amodei. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentleman from nevada is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. amodei. mr. chair, i yield to the gentlewoman from illinois (ms. underwood), my colleague. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i join my friend, the chairman of the homeland security subcommittee in shared opposition to this amendment. instead of discussing cuts to our cybersecurity agency, also known as cisa, we should actually be discussing investing more. we cannot continue to play these political games. we do not have the luxury of doing that if we want to be serious about staying ahead of our foreign adversaries. given what we know, we should be serious. we have all been warned about the clear intentions of the people's republic of china, that it considers every sector that makes our society run fair game in its bid to dominate on the world stage. the fbi director told us that prc's plan is to land low blows against civilian infrastructure to try and induce panic and break america's will to resist. they are not alone in their plans to use cyber and other capabilities to threaten our national security, our economy, and, frankly, our way of life. now, i assure you, our adversaries are not holding back on their investments and they are not playing by the same rules. we have, unfortunately, already seen their capabilities and the kind of disruptions and destruction they intend to cause to the united states and our allies. it is really unspeakable that we are having a debate right now about cutting our premier cyber defense capabilities. now is not the time to reduce our ability to defend our nation's cybersecurity posture. we should be investing in it. mr. chair, i oppose this amendment and urge my colleagues to do the same. mr. clyde. mr. chair, may i inquire as to the time remaining. the acting chair. the gentleman from georgia has 1 minute remaining. mr. clyde. mr. chair, first, i commend the chairman here of our appropriations subcommittee. on sections 544 and 545 of this bill, i think it is critically important to prohibit the funding to classify or facilitate the classification of any communications by a united states person as mis-, dis-, or malinformation. i think, though we put the policy in the bill, it is the funding that gets agency attention, as i have mentioned before. i think it is critically important to ensure that the funding that we have sends that signal to cisa that they cannot abridge americans' first amendment rights through modifying what people can see by classifying information. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time mr. amodei. mr. chair, may i inquire as to the time remaining. the acting chair. the gentleman from nevada has 3\1/2\ minutes remaining. [[page h4189]] mr. amodei. mr. chair, here is a little history, and you can use it however you like. in the 2024 appropriations bill, we cut cisa $15 million, and it was because of this switchboarding issue. i agree that sometimes you want to get somebody's attention. appropriations is money. that was done this last time. as we look at what this agency has been doing since then--and i appreciate the history. the history is strong and warrants attention, and i think we dealt with that the last time. oversight is an ongoing and continuing thing. when i sit here and look at this and say: we are going to flat fund them. that is the proposal. i say: well, how are you going to do that? where is that funding going to come from? just the standard, there you go, you are flat funded, at a time when their mission domestically in terms of infrastructure, whether that is utilities, communications or any number of things--i mean, in the media, it is like if you are going to buy a car, somebody hacked the outfit that does all that cyber stuff to make it easier to do. if you are going to go to a casino, those folks have been hacked. the mission is growing. you say: well, who is the mission? what is that about? that is not about our friends, mr. chair. that is about folks who do not wish us well, so russians, chinese, all that other sort of stuff. i would be more comfortable with this if there was a trigger saying, if we fund that and you do this, we are going to come and get some money. i would be more comfortable with this if it were like: here is where you are going to take it from. it is a funny time to be telling the folks who are in charge of cybersecurity in the non-dod sectors: we are going to flat fund you. i do not believe that money is the answer to every problem that we come across. this mission has never been more challenging. i think the oversight has been good under this director, and quite frankly, from recent history they are headed the right way. it does not mean you take your eyes off of them. to go back and say you are flat funded, quite frankly, i think it is a curious time. mr. chair, reluctantly, i do not support the amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. {time} 1245 the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from georgia (mr. clyde). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from georgia will be postponed. amendment no. 12 offered by mr. feenstra the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 12 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. feenstra. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 2, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from iowa (mr. feenstra) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from iowa. mr. feenstra. mr. chair, i rise today in support of my amendment to the homeland security appropriations bill. president biden has overseen the worst border crisis in our nation's history. since the beginning of his administration, nearly 8 million illegal immigrants have crossed over our southern border with 2 million evading capture from border patrol. even known terrorists and drugs have come through this wide-open border, but this did not happen by accident. the administration's policies have created this crisis by failing to enforce our laws, not holding drug traffickers accountable for their crimes, and not finishing the wall. this amendment exposes this administration's refusal to build the wall and secure our border. it directs the department of homeland security to use the money confiscated from the drug cartels to build the border wall and protect our communities. the cartels do not deserve to keep a single penny of the money they have made smuggling deadly drugs that are coming into our communities. they deserve jail time for their crimes. i urge my colleagues to support my amendment because the american people deserve secure borders and safe communities, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, we do not even need to discuss the reasons why wasting funds on additional miles of wall is a bad idea. the amendment does nothing but make an ill attempt to invest in an ineffective and costly response to the challenges we are facing at the border. furthermore, it also calls on the dhs secretary to take action regarding the use of funds that congress has already determined he does not control. while cbp is the primary agency responsible for the seizure of these assets at the border, the proceeds typically go into the treasury forfeiture fund, which is managed by the treasury department. the allowable uses of these funds are defined in law, and there is an established process for which the secretary of homeland security can make requests of the treasury secretary for a portion of these funds. a significant portion of the proceeds are necessary for the agencies responsible for storing and maintaining seized and forfeited assets and a series of other mandatory requirements. requiring that all of the funds seized at the southern border be used for an ineffective, outdated border wall would create a problem with the execution of the fund, causing it to quickly become insolvent. i oppose this amendment, i urge my colleagues to do the same, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. feenstra. mr. chair, this amendment is not controversial. it is actually a very commonsense amendment. we are seizing drugs from the cartels, and we are using money that is also seized from the cartels to build the wall. we need to build the wall to secure our border. we should have the criminals that are endangering our communities help pay for this project. it is very simple. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from iowa (mr. feenstra). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 14 offered by mr. robert garcia of california the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 14 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. robert garcia of california. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 12, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $600,000,000)''. page 12, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $600,000,000)''. page 12, line 20 after the first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $100,000,000)''. page 13, line 5, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $100,000,000)''. page 24, line 17, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $600,000,000)''. page 24, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $600,000,000)''. page 44, line 12, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $700,000,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from california (mr. robert garcia) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from california. mr. robert garcia of california. mr. chairman, i rise today to defund donald trump's ineffective and harmful border wall and to restore the critical funding, which actually helps immigrants in our country. this is also very personal to me. i immigrated to this country as a small child, and i love our country for all it has provided me and my family. the [[page h4190]] day i raised my right hand and swore an oath to become a citizen was the proudest day of my life. we know that immigrants love this country. in fact, some of the most patriotic people in this country are immigrants. we know that immigrants make our communities stronger and safer. we should all be able to agree that we need an orderly process at the border. democrats and republicans can agree. we need a process where people with real asylum needs are protected and funded. we also need legal pathways to provide an orderly system for people who want to come here and build better lives. i thank president biden on his recent executive order to keep 500,000 families together by allowing members that are undocumented to marry their american citizen husbands and wives. that is real leadership and real progress on this issue. democrats can agree that we need border security, but that actually comes from technology, smart strategies, and giving border patrol agents what they need, not from a pointless wall that we know does not work. here are some facts: if you come here to the u.s. and make a legitimate asylum claim, you have a right to stay here while your claim is being heard. my colleagues in the majority may not like this, but it is actually the law of the united states. while you wait for your claim to be heard, you may also need some help, and we know people that come here are oftentimes vulnerable. they are sick. they are hungry. they are fleeing persecution. what happened to being a good human being and helping people and doing the most that we can? communities and nonprofits that provide shelter and aid are key partners to border security, and they let our border agencies focus on actually keeping us safe. republicans want to defund local governments and nonprofits. this bill ignores even what the gospel teaches us. it ignores that our brothers and sisters who are tired, poor, hungry, and sick should not be left behind but helped and given some type of love and support. if this republican bill were to become law, it would cause chaos and suffering in border communities and interior cities across our nation. before coming to congress, i was the mayor of long beach for 8 years. we actually sheltered over 1,500 migrant children in our convention center, and i know firsthand how important it is for local organizations and local cities to get support. i am offering this amendment to restore $700 million in funding to local governments and nonprofit organizations by eliminating the unnecessary border wall and deportation funding increases. was not mexico supposed to pay for the wall? is not that what the former president kept claiming? yet, it keeps being repeated by the majority that they want to continue to fund something that does not work and was supposed to be paid for by mexico. instead, we should be investing in organizations like catholic charities, the salvation army, and the united way. please do not defund catholic charities, do not defund our cities, and vote for our amendment. i reserve the balance of my time. mr. amodei. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentleman from nevada is recognized for 5 minutes. mr. amodei. mr. chair, the shelter and services program is a failed program. it does nothing but facilitate the administration's self- created policy crisis on our border. it is interesting to hear the discussions in terms of now that they are here, we should do something and skip over the whole issue of what has happened in the last 36 months? it is undeniable that the numbers are significantly larger. once you are here, we have to focus on what we do. when you look at shelter services, we are renting tents. by the way, it is a single vendor. it is not even put out for bid. we spend over a billion something a year just for tents. while it is nice to talk about how we should be good stewards of whoever happens to show up, to ignore how they came to be here in such massive numbers in the last 36 months, to me, it is a bit--and you can fill in the blank. what began as a $30 million effort has ballooned to a $650 million grab bag for nongovernmental organizations to swiftly resettle migrants across the border illegally into our country. even large city democrat mayors are screaming: we cannot sustain this. we should not be spending money on programs that incentivize illegal immigration. this amendment would directly undercut border security by reducing funds for border wall construction by $600 million. the men and women in the field have told us walls work, and it is time for my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to accept that fact. this amendment would also cut immigration enforcement efforts by $100 million. somebody earlier said: hey, we are turning our backs on border patrol. really? a hundred million bucks is a pretty good look at somebody's back. that significantly reduces our ability to remove these migrants that no longer have a legal basis to remain in the country. remember the backlog that requires over a million dollars to get folks who have failed the test for claiming asylum. by the way, there are those who pose a risk. i will not repeat what other people have and will talk about. instead of allowing this administration to continue to positively manage the unmitigated flow of migrants entering our country without consequence, this bill proposes funding and policies that address the crisis by empowering federal agents and officers to do their jobs and not spend money on folks that enable a political agenda of this administration. i reserve the balance of my time. mr. robert garcia of california. mr. chairman, i yield to the gentlewoman from illinois (ms. underwood). ms. underwood. mr. chair, i rise in support of the amendment. the shelter and services program is incredibly important to communities across the country, including mine, illinois' 14th district. we all must realize that the flow of migration does not just impact communities at the border. it can be felt across the country, including in my home state of illinois. eliminating the shelter and services program will not stop migration. this funding provides states, cities, and nonprofits with the resources they need to provide temporary aid to new migrant arrivals. as people come to our country legally seeking a better life, we cannot ignore their humanitarian needs. last year, we were successful in providing $650 million for the shelter and services program, but we know the needs of our communities go far beyond what we provided last year and even what this amendment provides. however, i am grateful for the gentleman's amendment because it is an important starting point, and it provides a strong foundation for future discussions. it is no secret that we need to overhaul our immigration system and that there appears to be bipartisan agreement on that. until then, we must provide our communities with the resources they need to manage the surge now. reducing funding for a ridiculous border wall and ice transportation funding to pay for this program makes sense. we need to move away from expensive, ineffective, and outdated solutions that do not address the migration challenges we are experiencing today. i urge support for this amendment, and i look forward to increasing this funding for the shelter and services program in our final enacted bill. mr. amodei. mr. chairman, clearly, this is one of the differences between the two sides of the aisle. this amendment is a double whammy. it weakens the border through lack of physical investment, physical improvement, and capital improvement. i agree with what my colleague from illinois said. they cannot handle it with the present levels of funding with what is coming across the border. the last thing we need to do is try to put more money into dealing with self-imposed impacts that are avoidable. [[page h4191]] i urge opposition to the amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from california (mr. robert garcia). the amendment was rejected. {time} 1300 the acting chair. the chair understands that amendment no. 15 will not be offered. amendment no. 18 offered by ms. greene of georgia the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 18 printed in part c of house report 118-559. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. the salary of alejandro mayorkas, secretary of homeland security, shall be reduced to $1. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from georgia. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, my amendment would effectively fire secretary alejandro mayorkas as secretary of homeland security for the atrocious job that he is doing with our southern border and the overall security of our nation. earlier this year, the house of representatives passed my articles of impeachment against secretary mayorkas, making him the first cabinet secretary to be impeached since 1876. if the house impeached secretary mayorkas, we should certainly not pay him. here are some real-life consequences of alejandro mayorkas's failures. rachel morin, a mother of five from maryland, was brutally raped and murdered by an illegal alien from el salvador, who mayorkas allowed to enter our country as a got-away. a 13-year-old girl in new york city was violently raped at knifepoint and kidnapped in broad daylight by a vicious illegal from ecuador. he is a monster who was previously caught crossing the border with a 3- year-old child on his back in 2021, and then he was released into the united states of america under secretary mayorkas. jocelyn nungaray, 12 years old, was strangled to death and dumped in a creek in houston, texas, by two illegals from venezuela, who were released under secretary mayorkas earlier this year. i cannot understand and comprehend why my colleagues across the aisle want to keep this going. this child was 12 years old. kayla marie hamilton, 20 years old, was raped and strangled to death by an illegal ms-13 gang member who was apprehended but subsequently released under mayorkas. by the way, he was covered in gang tattoos. they knew exactly what he was, but under the leadership of secretary mayorkas, these monsters get released into our country. laken riley, 22, was brutally kidnapped and murdered by an animal from venezuela, who was released into our communities under secretary mayorkas and not prosecuted in the justice system in the state of new york. no more americans should have to die because secretary mayorkas refuses to enforce the laws of our country. secretary mayorkas' policies are escorting murderers, rapists, criminal trespassers, gang members, and terrorists into american communities. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i rise in strong opposition to this amendment. the secretary of homeland security plays a critical role in our national security. secretary mayorkas has served in his role admirably and has been an honorable public servant for decades, including service as a u.s. attorney, the director of uscis, and the deputy secretary of homeland security. if my majority colleagues were sincere about addressing and ending the humanitarian crisis at the border, they would not have rejected the opportunity to even debate one of the toughest bipartisan border bills in history simply to appease the desires of those who wish to keep chaos on the border for political gain. when the president and secretary mayorkas requested additional resources to secure the border, my colleagues across the aisle ignored that, too--even after they demanded that we take care of our own border first before we consider providing any funding to ukraine and our other allies. my colleagues and i remain ready to address the challenges facing the department of homeland security and to work toward building a modern immigration system that reflects the realities of the world we live in today and advances the best interests of american families, businesses, and communities. in addition, i would be remiss if i did not point out that this amendment raises serious constitutional issues. punishing the secretary is not the way to handle policy disputes. unfortunately, this amendment prioritizes legislative theater over the american people. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and i yield back the balance of my time. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, may i inquire how much time i have remaining. the acting chair. the gentlewoman has 2 minutes remaining. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, my colleague across the aisle talks about secretary mayorkas and his so-called critical role in our nation's security, yet secretary mayorkas has allowed over 360 individuals on the terrorist watch list to be caught while illegally crossing the southern border between ports of entry. we have no idea how many terrorists are in the interior of our country. two million that we know of have gotten away. how many of the 2 million are terrorists? he has enabled a 7,000 percent increase in illegal crossings of chinese nationals ever since 2021 when he took the job. his open border is allowing fentanyl to pour into our communities, which is killing 300 americans every single day. i would argue the ukraine war is not murdering any americans, yet this house of representatives and the people in washington are obsessed with using american taxpayer dollars to fund that war while fully ignoring the war on our southern border. according to the georgia narcotics association, approximately 7 out of 10 pills on the street are laced with fentanyl coming across the southern border, yet my colleague across the aisle says that we are ignoring the humanitarian crisis at the southern border. what this government, this administration, and secretary mayorkas are doing is ignoring the humanitarian crisis all across our country. fentanyl is a weapon of mass destruction that is murdering americans. that should be the issue this house cares about. secretary mayorkas' policies have killed americans, bankrupted communities, overrun schools, besieged towns, drowned hospitals, and incapacitated law enforcement while empowering cartels and foreign entities. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia will be postponed. amendment no. 19 offered by ms. greene of georgia the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 19 printed in part c of house report 118-559. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: [[page h4192]] sec. __. none of the funds made available in this act may be used by the department of homeland security to partner with the department of state to establish safe mobility offices. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from georgia. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, my amendment prohibits the department of homeland security from working with the state department to establish something they call safe mobility offices. as if legalizing and enabling the invasion of america is not enough, the biden administration wants to create offices down in foreign countries to bring more people in in their foreign country and help them invade the united states, and they want the american taxpayer to pay for it. it is unbelievable. secretary mayorkas is not only allowing illegals to invade our country, but he is also actively importing these terrorists and rapists into our country through the establishment--taxpayer-funded, by the way--of safe mobility offices. in a recent abc interview, mayorkas bragged about this fact, stating: ``we have built safe mobility offices in colombia, ecuador, guatemala, costa rica to reach people where they are so they do not have to take the perilous journey.'' i cannot even believe this is a real thing. he is not discouraging or preventing these illegals from invading our borders. he is showing them how to do it, and he is making it easier for them to come by establishing offices in those foreign countries, bringing them in, and telling them how to come to the united states. according to the state department, the safe mobility initiative is one of the many ways the united states is facilitating access to safe and lawful pathways from partner countries in the region, at no cost to them, so refugees and vulnerable migrants do not have to undertake dangerous journeys in search of safety and better opportunities. i bet americans would love to feel safe. i bet americans who have lost children and family members to illegal alien crime, rape, and murder would love for their family members to be safe and their dead family members to have better opportunities. no, the biden administration will not allow it. they have to open up offices to bring in more people. once aliens apply, experts from international organizations help individuals assess which legal pathways might work for them. if the individual qualifies for resettlement into the united states, which, according to the biden administration, everybody gets resettlement into the united states, they get a bus ticket, a plane ticket, or a train ticket to any of the 50 states that they want. then, the individual will undergo expedited refugee processing under the safe mobility initiative. so our taxpayers are paying for offices in these foreign countries to recruit people to come to our country and be expedited in at the cost of the american people. this is outrageous, infuriating, embarrassing, and pathetic. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the chair recognizes the gentlewoman from illinois for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, safe mobility offices are strategically situated in central and south america and intended to be an alternative way for individuals to seek lawful pathways to the united states other than the dangerous journey that many migrants resort to in an effort to flee from persecution or dangerous conditions. they are good, commonsense policies. my colleague across the aisle may be interested to know that these offices are also a useful tool in combating illegal border crossings. globally, we are facing the greatest displacement of people since world war ii. that is why these offices are also in partnership with canada and spain. let us talk about the effect this amendment would actually have on the department of homeland security. taking away options for lawful pathways only further burdens border patrol and customs and border protection with more encounters. these safe mobility offices enhance our security posture because they allow the vetting of individuals before they ever set foot on u.s. soil. it also takes money out of the cartels' pockets because it prevents individuals from paying smugglers and coyotes thousands of dollars to get them through our borders. finally, it takes the burden off of our already jammed immigration courts that are managing over 3 million cases and counting. i hear so often my colleagues on the other side of the aisle complain about the chaos at the border, yet when the administration comes up with innovative solutions that aim to establish a more orderly, efficient, and less chaotic border environment, it is met with resistance, as demonstrated by amendments like this one that we are debating today. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and i yield back the balance of my time. ms. greene of georgia. mr. chair, talk about burdening border patrol, we can talk about the over 12 million illegal aliens that have flooded into our country ever since joe biden took office, all under the direction of secretary mayorkas. yes, that has definitely burdened border patrol. talk about innovative solutions, i think we could call it innovative if you are talking about completely invading the united states of america by the biden administration and secretary mayorkas. his creative idea of an innovative solution is to open offices in foreign countries to recruit people to come to the united states and be expedited wherever they want to go. this is a slap in the face of every single american. it is a complete embarrassment. it is outrageous. our nation is over $34.5 trillion in debt right now, and democrats want to open up and spend money to open up more offices to bring more people in? my colleague talks about overwhelming border patrol. this is overwhelming the american people. mr. chair, i urge all of my colleagues in the house to pass my amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from georgia (ms. greene). the amendment was agreed to. {time} 1315 amendment no. 20 offered by mr. grothman the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 20 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. grothman. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be used for the parole program entitled ``processes for cubans, haitians, nicaraguans, and venezuelans''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. grothman) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from wisconsin. mr. grothman. mr. chair, i yield myself such time as i may consume. amendment no. 20 seeks to address an often underdiscussed part of the ongoing border crisis: the surge in illegal immigration from cuba, haiti, nicaragua, and venezuela. recent years have witnessed an unprecedented increase in the number of migrants from these four countries attempting to cross our southwest border. in fiscal year 2020, border patrol agents apprehended about 17,500 illegal entrants from these nations. that was the final year before president biden. this number surged more than tenfold in fiscal year 2021 to 181,000 and skyrocketed to over 600,000 in fiscal year 2022. from 17,000 to 600,000, these numbers are common in the increase during this administration. understanding the factors behind this dramatic rise is crucial to understanding the challenges it poses. the biden administration's approach to border security has played a significant role in this surge. look no further [[page h4193]] than the introduction of the chnv parole process targeting nationals of cuba, haiti, nicaragua and venezuela. initially created as a limited parole program for venezuelans, this program expanded significantly in january of 2023. now it offers parole for up to 30,000 nationals per month from these countries. remember, we used to have 17,000 in a whole year. now it is 30,000 per month. this policy has led to a system of all carrots and no sticks, incentivizing illegal entries without adequate deterrents. through the end of may, over 462,000 chnv parolees have entered the u.s. this figure surpasses the current population of new orleans just from these four countries and far exceeds the annual immigration limits set by congress. despite these parolees lacking visas or legal rights to enter, they have been granted work authorizations, potentially impacting the wages and working conditions of american workers. the administration claims that each chnv applicant undergoes robust security vetting and requires a u.s.-based supporter. however, this system is ripe for exploitation, human trafficking, and fraud. moreover, the security vetting process is insufficient, particularly given the limited cooperation from hostile governments and the lack of a stable government in haiti. when i have been on the border, the only country they get criminal background checks from is canada. my amendment is straightforward. none of the funds appropriated by this act can be used to run the chnv parole program. congress must act to correct these misguided policies, prioritize the enforcement of existing immigration laws, and ensure that our border security measures are both effective and humane. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, as a threshold matter, the underlying bill already includes a provision that would effectively end the current operation of the program referenced in this amendment. that is because applicants must use the cbp one mobile app from abroad to submit information that is then used to conduct background checks. the majority's bill already includes a harmful provision that prevents the use of the cbp one app to facilitate the parole of migrants into the united states. setting aside the redundancy of this provision, it is worth spending a moment discussing the harmful impact of preventing this program to continue. the parole process in place for cubans, haitians, nicaraguans, and venezuelans provides the department an opportunity to provide an alternative to the dangerous journeys that many migrants resort to taking to flee from persecution and dangerous conditions. it also enhances our security posture because it allows the department to vet people before they arrive. it has resulted in a significant reduction in the number of these individuals being encountered between ports of entry at our southern border, which helps with having a more orderly and less chaotic border environment. i really do wish my colleagues across the aisle, who talk all the time about wanting to secure the border, would start working with democrats to provide dhs the resources it needs and stop trying to prevent it from executing programs that are actually working. instead of ending programs that are reducing chaos at the border, we should be discussing how to build upon the successes of these efforts. once again, this amendment has no chance of being enacted. i urge a ``no'' vote on this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. grothman. mr. chair, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from ohio (mr. turner). mr. turner. mr. chair, i thank congressman grothman, my friend and colleague, for his leadership on this issue. i ask for strong support for this amendment which prohibits funding to be used for the parole program titled: ``processes for cubans, haitians, nicaraguans, and venezuelans.'' more than 10,000 haitian migrants have settled in my congressional district in springfield, ohio, sent there by the biden administration's unlawful use of the immigration parole program. i am going to say that again. more than 10,000 haitians have settled in my congressional district in springfield, ohio. america is a nation of immigrants, and ohio has undoubtedly been enriched by those seeking the tremendous opportunities that our country has to offer. however, biden's administration policies incentivize migrants to locate in the united states rapidly and in large numbers, moving to small and rural communities like in my district. you cannot find a city in this country that would be able to sufficiently handle this kind of surge. the city of springfield is strained with infrastructure, housing, and schools all pushed to the limit. last year, the community of springfield formed an immigration accountability response team to address this unprecedented population explosion. these biden policies are wrong and put these people and the city of springfield in impossible circumstances. mr. chair, i urge strong support of this amendment. mr. grothman. mr. chair, i urge all members to support this amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. the acting chair. the gentleman has the only time remaining. mr. grothman. mr. chair, the chnv program is another example of this administration clearly violating the limits on parole established by congress. none of the migrants being paroled into this nation under this program have a legal basis to enter. mr. chair, i urge all members to support this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. grothman). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from wisconsin will be postponed. amendment no. 29 offered by mr. mccormick the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 29 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. mccormick. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 26, line 14, insert ``, including any barrier constructed by a state government,'' after ``barriers''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from georgia (mr. mccormick) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from georgia. mr. mccormick. mr. chair, i rise to offer my amendment no. 29 to h.r. 8752, the fiscal year 2025 homeland security appropriations bill. my amendment would add language to section 212 of the bill to make sure that no federal funds can be used to dismantle, demolish, remove, or damage barriers on the u.s.-mexico border that are placed there by state governments. the crisis at our southern border has never been worse. since president biden took office, there have been easily over 9 million encounters nationwide and over 7.5 million at the southwest border specifically. there have been around 2 million known got-aways and over 350 encounters with those on terrorist watch lists, massive numbers of aliens who are considered inadmissible by law entering our country, with about 400,000 from cuba, haiti, nicaragua, and venezuela mass paroled into our country. we are willfully and knowingly allowing murderers, rapists, and spies into our country as a byproduct of the biden administration's attempt to skew future elections. they do not care about the carnage and would literally be happy to be king of the ashes. [[page h4194]] the border crisis has also created a public health crisis. this fiscal year, there has been over 13,000 pounds of fentanyl seized. that is enough to kill billions of people. we have seen 110,000 people who have died from opioid overdoses. that is just what we stop, though, 13,000 pounds. in the meantime, the president and his allies in congress have said time and time again that nothing can be fixed without congressional action. i am all for congressional action. this body passed h.r. 2 over a year ago, a bill that would fix issues in the code by doing things like raising the standard for credible fear determinations and requiring most migrants to arrive at official ports of entry to have their asylum cases processed. sadly, it is not surprising that this bill has not seen the light of day in the do-nothing senate. here is the other reality. immigration law has not changed significantly in years. the border crisis was never this bad before. under president trump, and even under presidents clinton and obama--as a matter of fact, obama ran on border security, let that sink in--we did not see the same absolute humanitarian crisis that is going on today. this is the fault of the current administration. in response to the negligence of this administration, texas, under the leadership of governor abbott, started operation lone star to secure the border. his plan included the placement of more than 100 miles of razor wire along the border. what was the administration's response? to oppose texas every step of the way and even go so far as to cut razor wire installed by texans. this is completely unacceptable. it is an example of the administration starting a problem and then preventing anyone else from fixing it as biden has done nothing to secure our sovereign border. my amendment would prevent this and guard the ability of texas, arizona, new mexico, and other border states to protect their citizens and their border. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, the u.s. constitution grants the federal government the sole authority to control immigration and secure the nation's border. that includes determining who is allowed to enter the country and how the borders are to be secured. this is for a good reason. it is critical that we have uniformity and consistency in our immigration and border security policies across all states. the federal government protects our national interests while maintaining positive relationships with neighboring countries. with this amendment, we are placing border patrol in the unfortunate position of being unable to properly secure the border where a state independently constructs or allows the construction of border barriers, such as a wall or fencing. furthermore, this amendment would impede cbp's ability to carry out its mission. cbp has indicated it would have challenges if this language were enacted. for example, this provision would present an extreme life and safety risk to asylum seekers and other migrants who may need to be rescued. border patrol agents and cbp air and marine officers regularly save migrants from drowning. preventing the removal of concertina wire or other structures on the border will cause an increase in drowning deaths, which would further place our law enforcement officers and agents at risk. mr. chair, i will vote ``no,'' and i encourage my colleagues to do the same. i yield back the balance of my time. mr. mccormick. mr. chair, i will quote the ``protects our national interests.'' that is the justification of removing barriers to illegal invaders; it protects americans' interests. these are the same people who would do harm to our american citizens through fentanyl overdoses, rapes, murders, crime, and then consuming american resources at a time when we cannot afford it. {time} 1330 president biden's executive order is too little too late. it will not fix the border crisis and would still give tacit legal permission to about 1 million illegal immigrants to enter every year. that is if he did not tell agents to ignore his own guidance. further biden's latest legal action, amnesty for 500,000 illegal immigrants based on their marital status will encourage more immigrants to break the law and cross the border to do something else. this policy of the administration has shown that they are not seriously attempting to secure the border and to solve this problem. in closing, mr. chair, my amendment would simply protect the state governments and allow them to secure their borders while the president refuses to do that. this is an 80 percent issue among the american public. this is an issue of we the people protecting our house. with the policies of this current administration, we, at the very least, must make sure we allow state governments to protect their citizens and protect their borders. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from georgia (mr. mccormick). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 30 offered by mr. molinaro the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 30 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. molinaro. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 1, line 14, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $5,000,000)''. page 11, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $5,000,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from new york (mr. molinaro) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from new york. mr. molinaro. mr. chairman, my amendment is very simple. it is a modest increase to funding for the u.s. customs and border protection agency which will assist in ensuring our southern border is secure. there is little question that this administration has created a crisis at our border. every state across america is facing the significant challenge of millions of undocumented individuals crossing into the country, in some cases even being transported to cities and states across america by this very administration. with that comes significant increases in human trafficking and the drug trade increases of fentanyl and synthetic opioids crossing the border, taking american lives, and devastating communities all across the country. my own state of new york, admittedly, through bad policy decisions of the mayor of new york city and the governor of new york, kathy hochul, has become a border state. hundreds of thousands of individuals are being relocated to the state of new york all at the same time making an enormous crisis even worse. in our own state we have seen individuals transported from downstate to upstate all with the sanction and the incentivizing from this president and the administration. every tool, every resource, and every additional dollar we can provide customs and border patrol is critically necessary to not only securing our border but saving lives, as well. congress needs to put forth greater focus and greater dollars, but at the same time this crisis was created by the president, and it is time that this crisis comes to an end. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, while i can support additional funding for dhs components in fiscal year 2025, i must respectfully oppose this amendment. we are debating increasing a multibillion dollar agency by a miniscule amount at the detriment of the office of the secretary which is consistently under attack by this majority. [[page h4195]] the office of the secretary and executive management has already been cut by 23 percent. mr. chair, i support the men and women of cbp, but let us not continue with these amendments to message the majority's opposition to the biden administration on the backs of the other career public servants this amendment will undoubtedly impact. mr. chair, i oppose this amendment, i urge my colleagues to do the same, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. molinaro. mr. chairman, i certainly was not going to take the dollars from border patrol to rededicate to border patrol, so it seemed quite clear to me that we ought to take it from the office of the secretary. if it were up to me, having served as an executive for 12 years, not only would i not have hired secretary mayorkas, i would have called for his resignation immediately. if it were up to me, i would eliminate him from the office as it is, but that is not a message. it is critically important we give the tools necessary to cbp to do its job. it is critically important that, in fact, we hold the administration accountable. it is critically important that americans understand there is one side of the aisle that is actually fighting to secure the border, and we will continue to do so. mr. chair, i ask support for the amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from new york (mr. molinaro). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 32 offered by mr. moore of alabama the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 32 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. moore of alabama. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 14, line 14, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $50,000,000) (decreased by $50,000,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from alabama (mr. moore) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from alabama. mr. moore of alabama. mr. chairman, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. chairman, i rise today in support of amendment no. 32 that would express congressional opposition to tsa's use of facial recognition technology at american airports. facial recognition technology encroaches on the privacy of american citizens. this gives the government unprecedented surveillance capabilities that can track a person's movements in real time. at a time when the government already conducts warrantless searches of our data through the fisa programs, we should not give our weaponized government another inch when it comes to mass surveillance, especially without a sophisticated system of checks and balances. tsa has expanded its facial recognition technology at american airports. while tsa states that the program is optional, it is the stated intent of the tsa to expand this technology beyond the security checkpoint and require that passengers undergo facial recognition scans every time they travel. further, there are several airports that i have traveled to that do not have sufficient signage to alert passengers that they have the option to opt out of this intrusive technology. in april of 2023, tsa administrator pekoske admitted at the south by southwest conference that we will get to a point where we will require biometrics across the board. the potential for misuse of this technology extends far beyond airport security checkpoints. once americans become accustomed to government facial recognition scans, it will be that much easier for the government to scan citizens' faces everywhere, from entry into government buildings, to passive surveillance on public property like parks, schools, and sidewalks. this powerful surveillance technology as deployed by tsa does not make air travel safer. as a matter of fact, the 3 percent error rate cited by tsa represents more than 68,000 mismatches per day if used on all 2.2 million daily travelers. recent news reports that hundreds of passengers have bypassed tsa security checkpoints entirely in recent years suggest that tsa should focus on the fundamentals, not expanding its facial recognition program. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, the use of facial recognition technology, which is still a fairly new capability, requires robust oversight and internal controls, including a privacy impact assessment by dhs's privacy office. i know that the department of homeland security and tsa have been taking important steps in that direction, including departmentwide governance policies and allowing travelers going through tsa checkpoints to opt out of the use of this technology. more work needs to be done to address the potential for biases and inaccuracies in the facial recognition algorithms, particularly regarding their ability to accurately recognize individuals from different demographic groups, as well as ensuring that travelers are aware of their rights to opt out of the facial recognition screening process. however, i believe we should continue to lean in to address these challenges to ensure the appropriate protections and safeguards are in place while also embracing and investing in modern solutions that not only strengthen our security and expedite the traveler experience with dhs, but also improve the lives of everyday americans. mr. chair, i oppose this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. moore of alabama. mr. chairman, i thank my colleague from massachusetts (ms. pressley) for cosponsoring this amendment. i encourage my colleagues to support this effort, as well. in closing, mr. chairman, i encourage all members and friends to support this important amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from alabama (mr. moore). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 37 offered by mr. mullin the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 37 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. mullin. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 2, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $18,168,000)''. page 43, line 24, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $18,168,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from california (mr. mullin) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from california. mr. mullin. mr. chair, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. chairman, america's urban search and rescue teams are vital task forces that deserve adequate funding so they can continue to bring hope during our country's darkest hours. deployed across the country whenever a major disaster strikes, these task forces have pulled victims out of the rubble after the world trade center collapsed, searched for those stranded in flooded homes during hurricane katrina, responded to raging wildfires in maui, and answered the call to help with many other disasters across america and the world. these heroes have been there for our nation when we have needed them the most. while we cannot forecast the next national emergency, congress must proactively support the needs of these task forces so they may adequately prepare for the next moment they are called into action. that is why i am leading a bipartisan group of lawmakers with representatives young kim from california and [[page h4196]] jill tokuda from hawaii to advocate for an $18 million increase in federal funding for america's 28 urban search and rescue task forces. this would prevent cuts to funding the task forces received in fiscal year 2024, and it would meet the actual expenses that local fire departments and other first responders have on the ground. our proposal is also extremely modest. it represents just $2 million per task force. it is the least we can do to ensure emergency responders have the training and equipment they need when a disaster strikes. i am grateful to have their support and the support of task force leaders from across the country for this effort. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. mrs. kim of california. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition, even though i am not opposed to it. the acting chair (mr. ogles). without objection, the gentlewoman is recognized for 5 minutes. there was no objection. mrs. kim of california. mr. chair, i rise in support of this bipartisan amendment to provide much-needed resources to the fema operations and support account for the national urban search and rescue response system, or us&r. this increase is offset by the management directorate for operations and support account. us&r has been critical in disaster response efforts in the aftermath of the major wildfires, hurricanes, and tropical storms across the country, including in california. we are reminded of the importance of this program as communities in our area face a scorching heat wave and a threat of devastating wildfires, and i am grateful to orange county fire authority chief brian fennessy's leadership as the western representative for nine us&r task forces in our region. unfortunately, costs associated with operating the task forces have increased with higher labor and equipment costs and more deployments. my amendment ensures us&r's task forces are equipped with the tools needed to protect our communities. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. mullin. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from california (mr. mullin). the amendment was agreed to. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i rise as the designee of the gentlewoman from connecticut (ms. delauro), and i move to strike the last word. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i yield to the gentleman from rhode island (mr. magaziner). mr. magaziner. mr. chair, i thank the gentlewoman for yielding. the most solemn duty that we have as members of congress is to keep americans safe. unfortunately, instead of focusing on the very real threats facing our homeland, too many house republicans are playing politics trying to defund the fbi and the department of justice, refusing to take action on gun violence and cheerleading for violent extremists like those who attacked this capitol and the people in it on january 6. they are putting their political agendas ahead of keeping everyday american people safe. {time} 1345 let us not forget that it was house republicans who killed the bipartisan plan to secure the border because donald trump told them he would rather have an issue to campaign on than fix the problem. shameful. when asked to explain his opposition to the bipartisan border security bill, one house republican even said, ``let me tell you, i am not willing to do too damn much right now to help a democrat and to help joe biden's approval rating,'' putting politics ahead of securing the border. this appropriations bill proposed by house republicans cuts funding for regional counterterrorism efforts that keep americans safe from both domestic and foreign terrorism and cuts all funding to help states and cities manage the impact of migration. i sit on the homeland security committee, and i saw as house republicans brought in officials from states and cities to talk about how difficult it is to deal with the challenges of migration in their communities. guess what? if those state or city officials are watching now, this budget that the house republicans are proposing zeros you out, cuts you off. they are saying to you that you are on your own at the state and local level to deal with these challenges. the american people want house republicans to stop playing political games and work together across the aisle with democrats to secure our homeland. for this reason, at the appropriate time, i will offer a motion to recommit this bill back to committee for further work. my amendment would secure our homeland by providing an additional $51 million to customs and border protection to improve information sharing and prevent people who are on the watch list from entering our country and to enhance security at ports of entry and combat fentanyl trafficking by purchasing equipment, including license plate readers and substance detection devices. it would also provide over $150 million to detect radiological and nuclear materials and biohazard threats, and prevent terror attacks, and it would restore funding and authorities to combat domestic terrorism, domestic extremists like those who violently attacked police officers and tried to stop the people's votes from being counted on january 6. i ask my colleagues, let us put americans first by working together across the aisle, the way people expect of us, to secure our homeland and keep people safe instead of advancing the extreme agenda of the former president, who, by the way, was just convicted of 34 criminal counts. i hope my colleagues will join me in voting for the motion to recommit. mr. chair, i include in the record the text of my amendment. mr. magaziner of rhode island moves to recommit the bill h.r. 8752 to the committee on appropriations with the following amendment: page 2, after line 6, insert the following: federal assistance (including transfer of funds) for necessary expenses of the office of the secretary and for executive management for federal assistance through grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other activities, $20,000,000, which shall be transferred to ``federal emergency management agency--federal assistance'', for targeted violence and terrorism prevention grants to remain available until september 30, 2026. page 2, line 16, after the dollar amount insert ``(increased by $15,000,000)''. page 11, line 4, after the dollar amount insert ``(increased by $51,000,000)''. page 12, line 8, after the dollar amount insert ``(increased by $30,000,000)''. page 12, line 9, after the dollar amount insert ``(increased by $30,000,000)''. page 25, line 1, after the dollar amount insert ``(increased by $30,000,000)''. page 58, line 22, after the dollar amount insert ``(increased by $105,798,000)''. page 12, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(decreased by $221,798,000)''. page 12, 1ine 10, after the dollar amount, insert ``(decreased by $221,798,000)''. page 24, line 17, after the dollar amount, insert ``(decreased by $221,798,000)''. page 24, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(decreased by $221,798,000)''. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the chair would remind members to refrain from engaging in personalities toward presumptive nominees for the office of president. amendment no. 38 offered by mr. norman the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 38 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. norman. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be used to purchase electric vehicles. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from south carolina (mr. norman) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from south carolina. mr. norman. mr. chair, my amendment is pretty simple. it prohibits [[page h4197]] funding for the purchase of electric vehicles. we have a member here in congress who owns a dealership who is burying his electric vehicle, which does not work, as a testament to how useless these vehicles are. i rise in support of my amendment that prohibits funds for the purchase of electric vehicles. as part of the department of homeland security's climate action plan, whatever that is, the agency responsible for the safety and security of our nation is wasting hard- earned taxpayer dollars on evs. dhs has set a goal to transition 50 percent of its vehicle fleet to zero-emissions vehicles by 2030 in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. where is dhs' goal to reduce the number of illegal immigrants entering this country? dhs is proud to be the first federal agency to debut electric vehicles for law enforcement. how does an electric vehicle help a law enforcement officer do his or her job better? how does an electric vehicle protect our nation? the dhs' website says it is implementing a new approach to meet the climate crisis, whatever that is, which includes reducing greenhouse gas emissions. mr. chair, this is a joke. what about the real crisis that is threatening our nation, the crisis at the border, the crisis that has resulted in many deaths that are reported daily? mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, first, we should all support sensible steps to reduce the government's greenhouse gas emissions. electric vehicles have the potential to significantly improve federal fleet efficiency and reduce vehicle operation and maintenance costs. prohibiting the department from buying one type of cutting-edge technology just because some of my colleagues want to score political points and continue to deny the existence of climate change is shameful and impractical. transitioning our federal fleet to electric vehicles where possible is not part of some woke agenda. it is a matter of practicality, risk mitigation, efficiency, and safety. i support these efforts, and i believe the american people support the cost savings, cleaner air, new jobs, and healthy environmental future that will come with working to achieve our climate goals. this amendment is just another partisan policy rider that gets us no closer to a final enacted bill for the department before the close of the fiscal year. mr. chair, i oppose this amendment, and i urge my colleagues to vote ``no.'' i yield back the balance of my time. mr. norman. mr. chair, the real crisis at the border is the invasion that is now taking place with over 9.6 million illegal immigrant encounters since the biden administration took office 3\1/2\ years ago, over 1.8 got-aways who evaded border patrol since the biden administration took office 3\1/2\ years ago, over 50 illegal immigrants with ties to isis infiltrating our nation, and over 27,000 chinese communist nationals encountered in fiscal year 2024. i do not know how much longer we are going to have to put up with the killings that are taking place. in one 2 days ago, a 13-year-old girl was dragged under a bridge, tortured for 2 hours, raped, and then killed. how long will my friends on the opposite side of the aisle put up with this kind of insanity? since the biden administration took office, it has opened the borders to anybody from anywhere, any country, without any vetting. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support my amendment to ensure dhs is focused on their true mission to secure the nation from the many threats that we face and to keep america safe. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from south carolina (mr. norman). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 39 offered by mr. norman the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 39 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. norman. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be used for the inclusion action committee of the transportation security administration. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from south carolina (mr. norman) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from south carolina. mr. norman. mr. chair, i rise in support of my amendment that prohibits funds for tsa's inclusion action committee. in august 2020, tsa announced the inclusion action committee, which it describes as a coalition of diverse leaders focused on measuring the current state of diversity and inclusion at the tsa. the committee was instrumental in creating a gender-neutral option for the tsa precheck to serve nonbinary and gender nonconforming passengers and allow applicants to select their gender based on self-attestation, regardless of the sex assigned at birth. this is flat-out insanity. where else does this work in our society? can i go to a bank and say i am bill gates and need a $10 million loan? can i go to any nfl team and say i am a star football player and get automatically on the team? it is insanity. how does letting a confused man check a box calling himself a woman make our country any safer? is this really what we should be focusing on? the committee also came out with a report on best practices to support an inclusive, diverse environment. where is the report on the best practices to secure our border, which has been open for the last 3\1/2\ years? the department of homeland security has utilized over 50 airports to process over 400,000 inadmissible aliens through this administration's unlawful cuban, haitian, nicaraguan, and venezuelan mass parole programs as well as any other country. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, there is probably no agency in the department that interacts with everyday americans, our constituents, more than the transportation security administration. tsa's interaction with the traveling public is one that should reinforce tsa's commitment to the safety and security of the traveler and their experience with tsa. that is not just limited to screening baggage. it means respecting all travelers, including travelers from diverse racial and ethnic backgrounds and the lgbtqia+ community. tsa's recognition of inclusivity should be celebrated, not handicapped. whether this majority wants to accept it or not, we are a diverse nation. that is what makes us great. this amendment is simply another pointless culture war and a waste of our time. i oppose the amendment, and i urge my colleagues to vote ``no.'' mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. norman. mr. chair, i would just say this is insanity. for those listening in the balcony, i am sure if they flew here, they had to present a valid id, a valid verification, a valid ticket before they got on the airplane. with illegals, it is no photo id, no verification or information, just a piece of paper provided by the illegal immigrant. this is a blatant mockery of united states law. instead of securing our transportation system, tsa is more worried about diversity and feelings. as a side note, can i go up to the tsa agent and claim to be a pilot and get in the pilot seat? no, i cannot. it is insanity to even say that. it is amazing this is even something we have to spend time debating. as i explained with my last amendment, dhs' mission is to secure the nation from the many threats we face and to keep america safe. tsa's mission is to protect the nation's transportation system, to ensure freedom of [[page h4198]] movement for people and commerce. how does an inclusion action committee that advocates for a woke diversity, equity, and inclusion agenda make our nation any safer? the answer is it does not. again, it is insanity to even have to debate this on the floor of the house of representatives with all the other crises that we are facing. mr. chair, i urge adoption of this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from south carolina (mr. norman). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 42 offered by mr. ogles the acting chair (mr. norman). it is now in order to consider amendment no. 42 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. ogles. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 1, line 14, after the first dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $10,000,000)''. page 95, line 23, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $10,000,000)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from tennessee. {time} 1400 mr. ogles. mr. chairman, i rise in support of my amendment to cut the budget of the office of the secretary of homeland security by $10 million. if we want our government to function, there must be consequences for poor performance. we have a record number of illegal aliens flooding across our borders. under secretary mayorkas' so-called leadership, the u.s. border patrol's migrant encounters have reached five times the rate they were even under the obama administration. nearly 371,000 illegal aliens were apprehended in the united states in december alone, with over 5.4 million illegal alien apprehensions occurring between fiscal year 2023 and the present day. we know this failure comes from the top. that is why this body voted to impeach secretary mayorkas for his willful and systematic refusal to comply with the law. it is a breach of the public trust. my amendment imposes a measured cut to the office of the secretary to make it clear that we find his work unacceptable. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i rise in strong opposition to this amendment. this amendment would further cut funding from the office of the secretary and executive management beyond the damaging cuts already included in the majority's base bill. the bill already eliminates funding for the office of immigration detention ombudsman and for the center for prevention programs and partnerships. it slashes funding for family reunification efforts and includes several undefined cuts to contracts, travel, personnel, and other base activities. it includes no additional funding for much-needed investments in the department's electronic health records management system, nor does the bill address the growth and workload for the office of civil rights and civil liberties. the bill also withholds important investments in the new office of homeland security statistics, which should serve as the foundation of evidence-based decisionmaking across the department's diverse set of mission responsibilities. this amendment would require deeper cuts that will further harm important priorities. for example, the office of health security is funded within this account, and it provides employee wellness and suicide prevention services for the department's workforce. this account also provides funding for child well-being specialists to oversee the care of kids in cbp custody, ensuring they receive the proper level of care and helping to ensure that border patrol agents are able to prioritize their primary law enforcement duties. mr. chair, amendments like this are unserious and unhelpful. i urge my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. ogles. mr. chairman, serious? i think this is serious. actions have consequences. inaction should also have consequences. a 12-year-old girl, intending to connect with her 13-year-old boyfriend, instead was intercepted by two drunk illegals. they took her. they raped her. they strangled her. two hours later, they tried to get money to leave the country. i pause because this is serious. we have a secretary who is not doing his job. mr. chairman, this is a modest cut. it is not going to turn out the lights, but it sends a clear message that the secretary's job is to protect american citizens. it is not diversity. it is not political points. it is to protect america. there were 400 individuals just designated as having potential ties to terrorists, but they were not apprehended because they were not on the terror watch list. inaction has consequences. this is serious. this cut is meant to send a message: enough is enough. mr. chair, i urge adoption of my amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair (mr. desjarlais). the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 43 offered by mr. ogles the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 43 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. ogles. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be used to carry out executive order 14019 (86 fed. reg. 13623; relating to promoting access to voting), except for sections 7, 8, and 10 of such order. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from tennessee. mr. ogles. mr. chairman, executive order no. 14019, allegedly promoting access to voting, is an effort to divert federal resources to partisan politics. this dangerous executive order instructs a wide range of agencies, including the department of health and human services and the small business administration, to engage in voter turnout operations. worse, it instructs agencies to partner with approved third-party organizations to assist them in their voter registration and other election-focused efforts. who will approve these organizations? what criteria will be used? the executive order does not say. congress has never granted the administration any authority to approve such groups or specified any criteria for doing so. this executive order is illegal. we all know how this will play out. the biden administration will partner with groups focused on mobilizing democratic voters. the executive order instructs agencies to let these groups use federal property to conduct their voter registration initiatives with the assistance of federal employees. the use of federal resources may free up their other resources for more nakedly political operations elsewhere. attorneys general in 13 states wrote to president biden in opposition to this executive order. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i rise in opposition to this amendment. it is absolutely disheartening to learn that any member of congress [[page h4199]] would actively work to undermine voting rights in this country. yet, once again, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are demonstrating that house republicans have no regard for democracy and no desire to uphold every american's right to vote. that is why the majority is so desperate to draw district lines to choke out the voices of vulnerable and underrepresented americans. now, with this amendment, we see another one of their tactics, which is cruel and un-american. it is an antidemocratic provision by the majority, this time seeking to suppress access to voting and removing steps the administration is taking to ensure that our elections are fair and free from outside influence. executive order no. 14019 on voting access will help ensure that all americans can exercise their right to vote, such as voters in underserved communities, voters who are younger and older, rural and urban, new citizens, servicemembers and veterans, native americans, voters with disabilities, and voters with language access concerns. every member of this body should support these ideals. while the amendment would allow the administration to continue these actions for servicemembers, voters with disabilities, and native americans, it would remove such efforts for other populations. that should tell my colleagues everything they need to know about their real intentions. the cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency, also known as cisa, is funded through this legislation. cisa plays a critical role in election security. for example, the agency is working with the department of justice to combat the increased threats to election officials and election workers. how is that a bad thing? honestly, i cannot comprehend how anyone who holds public office in our country could possibly support an amendment that attacks the very foundation of our democracy. this amendment does nothing more than threaten the integrity of our electoral process by limiting cisa's ability to ensure safe and secure elections for all u.s. citizens. mr. chair, i will vote ``no,'' and i encourage my colleagues to do the same. i yield back the balance of my time. mr. ogles. mr. chairman, we all understand the importance of maintaining the american people's faith in our elections. we understand that voting and access to the ballot box is important. my colleague spoke to the idea of outside influence, and that is exactly what this order does. it brings outside influence onto federal property. the 13 attorneys general raised objections because, with individuals and outside groups being hosted on federal property, if there is a violation, those ags may have problems or troubles prosecuting the state law because it is on federal property. this creates a conflict between the federal government and the states, as pointed out by attorneys general. it seems impossible that this executive order can be carried out without violations of the antideficiency act, which prohibits the use of funds for purposes not authorized by congress; the administrative procedures act; and the hatch act. congress must clear this up. this amendment is clean. it is clear. it blocks some of this undue outside influence. mr. chairman, i urge adoption of my amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee will be postponed. amendment no. 44 offered by mr. ogles the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 44 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. ogles. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be used to enforce any covid-19 mask mandates. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from tennessee. mr. ogles. mr. chairman, my amendment prohibits the secretary from requiring individuals to wear masks to prevent the spread of covid-19. mr. chair, this may seem like an old argument, but when we see the testimony of fauci talking about how much of the recommendations were made up and fictitious, i think it is important that we keep this conversation in the forefront. i think we remind individuals that our government overreached its authority and infringed on liberty. i think it is important we draw a line in the sand and tell the secretary that he cannot offer a mandate that forces someone to wear a mask. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, first, these policies should be debated in a different context, on a different bill. dhs' role here is guided by the centers for disease control and prevention. dhs does not develop independent policies on these issues, but, rather, implements policies that originate with the cdc. second, vaccines and masks are for the safety of self and others. if enacted under this amendment, the department would struggle to ensure the health of the traveling public in the face of a pandemic. this amendment undermines public health and the department's authority to ensure the safety of the traveling public. instead, it needlessly prevents risk control measures at great risk to our communities. mr. chair, i oppose this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. ogles. mr. chairman, i appreciate my colleague for her sentiment, but i would argue that this bill needlessly allows for the secretary to infringe on the medical relationship between an individual and their doctor. it needlessly forces someone to wear a mask when there is no science to back it up. there was a new york times article by leading epidemiologist tom jefferson, not to be confused with thomas jefferson, that said even the n-95, the gold standard in masks, was not effective at blocking the covid-19 virus. it is important that anything that is infringing on someone's liberties be based on fact and science and not on conjecture and panic. mr. chairman, i ask adoption of my amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 45 offered by mr. ogles the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 45 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. ogles. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act may be used to administer, implement, or enforce the memorandum on the deferred enforced departure for certain palestinians, issued by the president on february 14, 2024. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from tennessee. mr. ogles. mr. chairman, following hamas' brutal attack on october 7, this administration said all the right [[page h4200]] things. joe biden said he was ready to offer all appropriate means to support the government and the people of israel. the acting u.s. ambassador to israel said he was sickened by the images coming out of southern israel of dead and wounded civilians at the hands of terrorists from gaza. the white house said it unequivocally condemned the unprovoked attacks by hamas terrorists against israeli civilians. of course, the office of palestinian affairs, defunded by this act, called on israel not to respond militarily to the crimes of rape and murder. aside from that, the u.s. response could not have been stronger. {time} 1415 fast-forward to june 2024, the biden administration is withholding precision-guided munitions as israel is facing down an existential threat from hezbollah. the administration and its sycophants in the house and the senate are attempting to undermine israel's democracy by telling the israeli government not to defend the israeli people and israel's security interest. meanwhile, american citizens taken hostage by hamas on october 7 have died in captivity, and this administration's response continues to be insufficient, by proposing a cease-fire that is essentially on hamas' terms. most importantly, it preserves hamas. we have done little to apply pressure on the negotiations, particularly qatar, to use their extensive leverage against hamas on getting americans back. we have seen the biden administration cave to the demands of student protesters who chant ``kill the jews'' in arabic. there is an old expression in the ``history of the peloponnesian war'' in which it is said that: what men did once in private, they now do in public. he spoke of this in the context of the dying athenian morality. i do fear that hamas' goal of promoting international terrorism has emboldened far more public demonstrations of anti- semitism. we have seen pro-terror activists wielding bear spray while preventing jews from using the entrance to their synagogues in l.a., seizing a building and holding custodial staff hostage at columbia university, and other outrages. it is one sign among many of our growing societal rot. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, last november, i joined my democratic colleagues in sending a letter to president biden to urge him to designate the palestinian territories for temporary protected status and/or authorize deferred enforcement departure for palestinians in the united states. i called on the president to take this action because i knew it would save lives, and i applaud the administration for taking this action. the administration's policy includes important exemptions, too, such as for individuals convicted of felonies or who otherwise pose a public safety threat. we know that many civilians remain in danger in gaza after the horrific attacks by hamas on october 7. the humanitarian conditions in gaza continue to be appalling, and children have been disproportionately harmed. this amendment is cruel and unjustifiable. furthermore, even if it were adopted, it likely would not accomplish anything except creating chaos related to the implementation of a policy that involves agencies that are not only in dhs, but also in the departments of state, justice, and labor. the funds made available by the department of homeland security appropriations act do not impact uscis's fee-funded operations, which would create confusion even within dhs about how to implement this amendment if it were enacted. this amendment is nonsensical, and it ignores the realities of how our agencies actually work to solve pressing issues. i do not understand why we would want to be a nation that sends civilians into dangerous, war-torn conditions to needlessly put their lives at risk. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and i yield back the balance of my time mr. ogles. mr. chair, if this administration supported israel as much as it has worked to preserve hamas, this war would be over. of course, it does not. rather than signal its support for hamas' extermination and israel's right to defend itself, joe biden now wants to keep thousands of hamas sympathizers in the united states. on february 14, 2024, perhaps chosen to demonstrate the administration's relative affinity for the so-called palestinian cause, joe biden announced he was extending deferred enforced departure for palestinians, allowing up to 6,000 palestinians to stay in our country through august 13, 2025. think about that: hamas has just been organized, and they attacked, and they raped, and they killed, and what does this administration do? it defends hamas. it allows palestinian sympathizers to stay in our country. again, mr. chairman, enough is enough. this is the united states of america. it is time to secure our border. we get to decide who comes in and, by george, we get to decide who has to leave. mr. chair, i urge adoption of my amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee will be postponed. amendment no. 46 offered by mr. ogles the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 46 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. ogles. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available under this act may be used to develop or implement any department of homeland security environmental justice strategy. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from tennessee. mr. ogles. mr. chair, environmental justice is a concept closely intertwined with dei principles. rather than seeking to use federal resources to mitigate environmental harms as effectively and efficiently as possible, advocates of environmental justice want resources allocated based on their misguided notion of equity for marginalized communities. dhs owes all americans fair treatment regardless of race, ethnicity, or any other factor. it also owes it to taxpayers to dedicate its resources to where they can provide the most benefit. whatever some critical theory professor might claim, we all know that the weather is not racist. a tornado will not check the race of a homeowner before damaging a house. if the temperature reaches 100 degrees in your town, it will be 100 degrees for everyone. the existing environmental justice strategy for 2021 through 2025 sets such goals as: expand department-wide awareness of environmental justice considerations that might result from its programs, policies, and activities; further the integration of environmental justice principles into dhs lines of business, prominently including mitigation, adaptation, and resilience; strengthen outreach to communities and stakeholders. it goes on and on and on. it does not say anything about providing resources in the case of a catastrophic event. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. [[page h4201]] the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, this amendment seeks to defund environmental justice efforts at the department of homeland security. as we continue to face unprecedented climate events, including extreme heat, poor air quality, flooding, and natural disasters of all types, vulnerable americans have been struggling to adapt. it is no secret that minority communities have been disproportionately impacted. i will remind my colleagues on the other side of the aisle that many of the communities that would benefit from environmental justice efforts exist in their districts, too. they exist all over the country, and we need a whole-of-government approach to environmental justice to meet their needs. for too long, minority and low-income populations have endured disproportionately high and adverse human health or environmental effects from various local, state, and federal governmental policies. environmental justice strategies are a responsible step toward righting those wrongs. dhs' implementation of environmental justice efforts does not prevent it from securing the border, responding to disasters, or defending our critical infrastructure. on the contrary, these efforts strengthen dhs' outcomes by ensuring that the department considers the impact on human health and the environment of historically marginalized and low-income populations as it executes its mission. why would we want to prevent the fair treatment and meaningful involvement of all people regardless of race, color, national origin, disability status, or income with respect to dhs' execution of its responsibilities? i will vote ``no,'' and i encourage my colleagues to do the same. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. ogles. mr. chair, i appreciate my colleague's perspective. prior to being in congress, i was a county executive. one of my departments was emergency services, emergency management, county fire. we also had a county hospital and a county health department. what i can say is, during my tenure, i witnessed tragedies, tornadoes, fires, and in each case, those first responders, those in charge of deploying resources did so without concern for race, color, creed. they responded to a disaster. the idea that resources would be diverted for justice, i can speak for the men and women on the front lines, they do not see by way of color; they see people, their friends, their neighbors in need, and i trust they will do the right thing. there are procedures and mechanisms in place if there is truly an injustice that can be resolved. mr. chair, this is a good amendment. at a time of burdening debt, we have got to start cutting. this is wasteful. i urge adoption, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from tennessee (mr. ogles). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 48 offered by mr. gottheimer the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 48 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. gottheimer. mr. chair, as the designee of mr. pascrell, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: page 44, line 12, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $30,000,000)''. page 45, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $30,000,000)''. page 45, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $15,000,000)''. page 45, line 11, after the dollar amount, insert ``(increased by $15,000,000)''. page 58, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced by $30,000,00)''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from new jersey (mr. gottheimer) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from new jersey. mr. gottheimer. mr. chair, i rise in support of the bipartisan amendment to increase the budget of the nonprofit security grant program by $30 million. i thank my dear friend and colleague and great leader from new jersey, the great congressman bill pascrell, and the gentleman from texas, chairman mccaul, for his leadership in spearheading this effort. i also thank my great friend, chairman amodei, for his phenomenal leadership and all he does for his state to support all those who benefit from this important legislation. mr. chair, the nonprofit security grant program is all about protecting religious freedom and our houses of worship, schools, and community centers, including temples, churches, and mosques, the very places everyone should feel safe. we especially need to protect religious freedom now more than ever. nonprofit security grants fund physical barriers like ballasts and bulletproof glass, technology to help with monitoring threats like cameras, and the hiring of onsite security officers. on top of that, these critical grants equip our nonprofits with the training and education they need to stay secure. this program is vital and majorly oversubscribed, especially given this moment we are living in. applicants requested $679 million in funding this year for a program that only has about $300 million available. as a result, just 42 percent of applicants, fewer than half, receive funding despite their need for these resources to protect the families and our communities more than ever. here in america, the greatest country in the world, we must ensure that religious freedom endures. we must do everything we can to protect our children, our families, and communities from hate and discrimination. unfortunately, new jersey is a hub for anti-semitic hate. nearly 1 in 10 of the incidents reported to the adl occurred in our state. bergen county, where i live, led the state in shameful anti- semitic attacks. there were almost quadruple the number of insults, assaults, and death threats reported right here in our country in 2023 as compared to the prior year. according to the anti-defamation league, which is a leading vital provider of facts and resources for this kind of information, nonpartisan, 2023 was the worst year for anti-semitism since they began collecting data in 1979. there were more than 8,000 anti-semitic incidents reported in 2023, including more than 5,000 anti-semitic incidents reported after october 7. anti-semitism is just part of the story. we must reject hate and bigotry in all forms wherever it is. we are seeing disturbing incidents of islamophobia and anti-asian racism in northern new jersey and in the tristate area. in new jersey, during eid al-fitr, rutgers' center for islamic life was vandalized as the suspect smashed artwork and plaques. it is shameful. our asian-american, pacific-islander community is also under attack. a march survey from the asian american foundation found that one in five asian-american new yorkers had been physically assaulted. it is disgusting and completely unacceptable. we must ensure that all people are safe on college campuses, in our neighborhoods, at our schools, at our churches, at our mosques, and at our synagogues. that is what the nonprofit security grants are all about and why this program is so important. {time} 1430 as the only jewish member of new jersey's congressional delegation, and as the only jewish member of the house intelligence committee, this is very personal for me. i believe strongly in our american values, one of which is freedom: freedom from fear, freedom from hate, and freedom to worship, live, and learn however you choose. to safeguard these freedoms that we hold so dear, we must invest in our security to combat hate. since i was sworn in, i have been focused on clawing millions of federal dollars from washington back to north jersey through this very program to protect our religious institutions, $4.8 million in these vital grants for my district this year alone to protect them. they come to me every day and ask for help. i urge my colleagues to support this amendment. i yield back the balance of my time. [[page h4202]] the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from new jersey (mr. gottheimer). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 50 offered by mr. roy the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 50 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. roy. mr. chair, i rise as the designee of the gentleman from texas (mr. pfluger), and i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to administer, implement, or enforce a ``remain-in-texas'' policy. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from texas (mr. roy) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from texas. mr. roy. mr. chairman, i do have an amendment at the desk, and i do want to make clear that this is on behalf of august pfluger, my colleague from texas, who has been a champion of this issue since he has been in congress. the issue that is before us as we take up the department of homeland security appropriations is the policy that the administration has put forward and, indeed, some members of this chamber, even some on this side of the aisle, have put forward. the policy would limit the ability to transport people who have come here illegally and that have been released into the united states by the administration into texas. it would limit the ability to transport these individuals to other places in the country. we have referred to this as the remain in texas policy, which we texans take significant issue with. the impact on the state of texas cannot be overstated. texas, more than any other state in the union, has been bearing the brunt of the wide-open border policies that have endangered the american people now for 3\1/2\ years, something that we hope to end soon. we, in congress, have a duty under article i to do something about it. that is why we put forward, i believe, a good dhs appropriations bill. we made clear that we need to secure the border in the process, but what we are not going to do is allow funds to be used to limit the ability of texans to alleviate the damage being done to our state. we have spent now, i think, $13 billion, with a b, to carry out the duties that the federal government are supposed to carry out under the constitution of the united states. that is what texas has had to do. we have now been able to defray some of the traffic. we have now been able to decrease and force some of that traffic to other states, but we should not be having to do that. we should not be having to put up razor wire. we should not be having to move our dps troopers down to the border instead of allowing them to do their job to patrol the rest of the state, particularly because in the rest of the state, there are massive amounts of fentanyl pouring into our communities and our schools, killing our kids and killing the people in our community. our position is that under no circumstances should any of the funds in this bill be used to limit the ability of the governor of texas or any of the other leaders of the state of texas, or, frankly, leaders in other states from transporting people out of texas so that other states have to bear the burden equally or at least partially. it is not even close to equally, by the way, partially, as much as texas. in particular, take kinney county, texas. we had testimony in the judiciary committee from the leadership, the county attorney from kinney county, texas. prior to the biden administration's policies being implemented, in 2021, they had about 150 arrests. do you know how many they have had in the subsequent 3 years? mr. chair, there have been 7,000 arrests in a county of 3,000 people. we have documented evidence of individuals who have been unable to go get 911 services in kinney county because the sole ambulance in kinney county, population 3,000, was out dealing with issues involving illegal aliens. meanwhile, the people who live there and pay taxes, a person died because they were not able to get a 911 response because it is being consumed and those activities are being used to deal with the issue that the federal government not only refuses to deal with but, in fact, is purposely putting gas on the fire. i am here to advocate for the amendment being offered by mr. pfluger to say that no funds shall be able to be used to implement such a policy. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, i oppose this amendment not because i support the remain in texas concept but because we are debating nonsense. this policy never happened. why are we wasting time debating amendments to prohibit the implementation of nonexistent policies? we heard a rumor about this becoming a policy over a year ago. despite all of the executive actions we have seen since, the administration has done nothing to suggest they are planning to move forward with this one. we can all invent amendments that prevent rumored policies from going into effect, and our bills would be loaded with nonsensical references to nonexistent policies. digging up old, rumored policies that never went into effect and are no longer being discussed is a waste of our time. if i did not know better, i would say my majority colleagues are running out of ideas on how to find failure with what the biden administration is doing to secure our border. i yield back the balance of my time. mr. roy. mr. chair, my simple question, although the gentlewoman has yielded her time back, would simply be: what is the problem? what is the harm of putting the language in the bill if it is a policy that is not being implemented? i would tell you that it is a $13 billion rumor. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from texas (mr. roy). the amendment was agreed to. the chair understands that amendment no. 52 will not be offered. amendment no. 53 offered by mr. rosendale the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 53 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. rosendale. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to carry out the department of homeland security memorandum titled ``worksite enforcement: the strategy to protect the american labor market, the conditions of the american worksite, and the dignity of the individual''. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from montana (mr. rosendale) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from montana. mr. rosendale. mr. chair, my amendment no. 53 would prohibit funds from being used to enforce secretary mayorkas' memo titled: ``worksite enforcement: the strategy to protect the american labor market, the conditions of the american worksite, and the dignity of the individual.'' with the stroke of a pen, secretary mayorkas eliminated an essential method of interior enforcement by requiring our immigration and customs enforcement agents to fight with one hand tied behind their backs. the memo prohibits ice from conducting worksite enforcement operations except in extremely limited circumstances. there are currently at least 16.8 million illegal aliens in our country, and estimates suggest that upwards of 65 percent of the illegal aliens are employed. [[page h4203]] businessowners and ranchers in montana work hard to ensure they follow federal immigration law, and this memo punishes law-abiding businesses who refuse to hire illegal aliens. this memo tells employers that they no longer need to follow the law and literally incentivizes the hiring of illegal aliens. additionally, americans should not have to compete in the labor market with illegal aliens who are depressing wages and keeping good- paying jobs away from american citizens. president biden's and secretary mayorkas' refusal to allow ice to do their job and enforce our nation's laws is a clear dereliction of duty and presents a risk to our country's national security. simply put, my amendment would allow ice agents to do their job enforcing immigration law with the most effective methods possible. under president trump, worksite enforcement operations were a common practice, making it clear to illegal aliens and the employers that there would be consequences for breaking the law, putting all businesses on a level playing field. while impeaching secretary mayorkas was a needed first step, we must use the appropriations process to fix the policies that he has enacted. it is time we protect small businesses and owners and workers and force secretary mayorkas to let ice do its job. mr. chairman, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, this amendment ignores the horrors for those who are exploited into forced labor trafficking and dangerous working conditions, many of whom are subject to strenuous work while making substandard wages. the dhs memo referenced in this amendment was a reasonable and much- needed step toward combating worker exploitation and the problems that follow. we still have so much work to do. even the department has noted that: `` . . . the most pernicious aspect of our country's unauthorized employment challenge: exploitative employers.'' yet, i do not see my colleagues on the other side of the aisle bringing forward amendments that would comprehensively address that issue. there is no denying that mass worksite operations furthermore threaten those who are most vulnerable to speak out about labor violations which has downstream impacts such as driving down wages and working conditions. adoption of this amendment only empowers bad employers and undermines the enforcement of our country's core labor standards to the detriment of all workers. i oppose this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. rosendale. mr. chairman, unfortunately, much like the complete disregard for the time limit on the first vote of the day that takes place in this chamber every single day, it is because there are no consequences. there is no downside. there is no hammer. that is what we have to have. in secretary mayorkas' own memo, he says on the first page: ``in addition, unscrupulous employers harm each worker competing for a job. by exploiting undocumented workers and paying them substandard wages, the unscrupulous employers create an unfair labor market. they also unfairly drive down their costs and disadvantage their business competitors who abide by the law.'' once again, they are not offering, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, anything about fixing this problem. if we not direct but allow ice to do their job, we can start identifying and deporting these illegal aliens who are hurting our labor market and american workers. i urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from montana (mr. rosendale). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from montana will be postponed. amendment no. 54 offered by mr. roy the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 54 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. roy. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. ___. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to carry out, enforce, or implement the process entitled, ``process to promote the unity and stability of families'', announced by the department of homeland security on june 18, 2024. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from texas (mr. roy) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from texas. mr. roy. mr. chairman, in the wake of 3\1/2\ years of abject failure, but worse than that, purposeful action by the executive branch of the federal government to undermine the security of the american people, empower cartels, empower china, and allow little children, little girls to get sold into the sex trafficking trade for political expediency for the radical progressive democrat left, in the wake of all of that with dead americans, with laken riley, with lizbeth medina, with kayla hamilton, with all of the horrific stories, the stories of a 12-year- old little girl getting raped, a 13-year-old little girl getting raped, in the wake of all of that, now the administration wants to continue its lawlessness by the use and abuse of executive power to grant amnesty. {time} 1445 that is the goal. that is the aim. our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, our radical, progressive democratic colleagues, view this as political opportunism--nothing more, nothing less. this is not about the huddled masses being invited into the united states. this is not about anything of the sort. this is about political power. that is what this is about. as a result, 53 human beings roasted in the texas heat in a tractor- trailer in san antonio, texas, which i represent, because my radical, progressive democratic colleagues and the radical, progressive democratic regime in the white house at the other end of pennsylvania avenue care more about political expediency than these human beings. that is the truth. they care more about political expediency than the individual americans dying from fentanyl poisoning or any of the individuals that i just described who were murdered or raped or killed because we are allowing criminals to be released into the united states illegally, unlawfully, using and abusing parole authority. now, the administration wants to grant amnesty. why? trust us, it is out of the goodness of our hearts, we are told. no, it is for the political expediency of setting up future voters. importantly, and more presciently, this is all about creating more incentive for more people to flood the zone, to flood the border, to come into this country. that is what it is about. it does not matter whether it empowers cartels. it does not matter whether it empowers our enemies. it does not matter what it means for the security of the people of texas or anybody else in this country. it is all about flooding the zone with more numbers. the legislation that we have before us, the amendment that we are putting forward, would prohibit the use of funds from promoting such a foolish amnesty plan by this radical administration that refuses to follow the law. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, first, let me clarify what the policy being attacked by this amendment actually does. [[page h4204]] this policy does not confer a new path to permanent status, let alone a new path to citizenship. the people who will benefit from the policy are already eligible for a green card, but the policy removes a barrier that would require almost all families to be separated for 10 years before the undocumented immigrant could be eligible for a green card. on average, these immigrants have been in the united states for 23 years, are married to u.s. citizens, and still must go through a lengthy green card process. however, with this policy in place, people get to go through the legal steps of getting a green card without being separated for a decade or longer from their families. any advocate for family values and unity should support this new process, which only applies to a limited subset of immigrants. instead of being attacked, we should all applaud the biden administration for advancing this policy. it demonstrates that the united states prioritizes family unity over archaic and harmful bureaucratic processes that serve no value and certainly provide no deterrence effect. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support this new policy and vote ``no'' on this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. roy. mr. chairman, i yield to the gentleman from texas (mr. self), my good friend. mr. self. mr. chairman, i rise today in support of mr. roy's amendment to prohibit any government funding for the biden administration parole-in-place mass amnesty scheme. this parole-in-place executive order clearly demonstrates that the biden administration is not and has never been serious about securing the border. his process would grant mass amnesty to approximately 80,000 inadmissible alien spouses of american citizens per month. make no mistake, the timing of this executive order was purposeful. on june 21, the supreme court issued its opinion in department of state v. munoz and concluded that a u.s. citizen spouse does not have a fundamental liberty interest in her alien spouse's admission into the united states. the biden administration rolled out his executive order directly contradicting this opinion just 3 days prior. the decision was obviously leaked to the biden administration. this is another example of in-your-face tyranny. this administration is lawless. we must not pass a dhs appropriations bill that funds this mass parole order that would grant amnesty to possibly thousands of criminals and further endanger communities across the nation, particularly in light of the cynical and lawless timing of this order. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to support the amendment. mr. roy. mr. chair, i appreciate my colleague from texas. i agree with him, and i associate myself with his remarks. the unilateral action by this executive branch is nothing new. they have been doing it with student loans. they have been doing it with all sorts of laws, where they ignore the law--parole authority, abuse of law, endangering the american people. this would give permanent residence and a path to citizenship to hundreds of thousands of illegal alien spouses of u.s. citizens and their noncitizen minor children. that is being done through unilateral action by the executive branch. this is not how we are supposed to make policy or law. it is important for us to use the power of the purse to push back. mr. chair, i urge adoption of the amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from texas (mr. roy). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from texas will be postponed. amendment no. 55 offered by mr. roy the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 55 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. roy. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds made available by this act be used implement any of the following executive orders: (1) executive order 13990, relating to protecting public health and the environment and restoring science to tackle the climate crisis. (2) executive order 14008, relating to tackling climate crisis at home and abroad. (3) section 6 of executive order 14013, relating to rebuilding and enhancing programs to resettle refugees and planning for the impact of climate change on migration. (4) executive order 14030, relating to climate-related financial risk. (5) executive order 14057, relating to catalyzing clean energy industries and jobs through federal sustainability. (6) executive order 14082, relating to implement of the energy and infrastructure provisions of the inflation reduction act of 2022. (7) executive order 14096, relating to revitalizing our nation's commitment to environmental justice for all. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from texas (mr. roy) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from texas. mr. roy. mr. chairman, this amendment will prohibit homeland security appropriations from being used to carry out president biden's climate executive orders. people might wonder why this is important. president biden and secretary mayorkas have been doing a massive amount of damage to this country with wide-open borders. not only do they endanger the american people, but they have literally lied and been caught lying about their own border patrol agents, who they accused of whipping haitian migrants when they knew full well it was not true. they have been targeting, undermining, and attacking their own personnel, their own law enforcement community, going after cbp and border patrol simply because border patrol wants to do their job. that endangers the american people. that is not it. that is not all they are doing. the president's executive orders are undermining our national security and making us beholden to china in other ways, making us beholden to the rest of the world by undermining our ability to produce reliable energy--all in pursuit of radical, progressive democrats' vision of unicorn energy policy, which is unreliable and will not produce the energy needed to be able to carry out and be competitive in the world. evs are piling up on lots as we speak. dealers cannot unload them. they literally cannot. they cannot sell them. why? because if i want to get in my car in austin, texas, and drive to midland, i have to stop three times along the way and cannot even find charging stations. put aside the fact that the cars are more expensive, more unreliable, and more difficult to repair. that is the reality. meanwhile, unreliable energy is dotting our grids across the entire country, including texas. why? because instead of pursuing logical policies like nuclear, if you care about co 2 production, or clean-burning natural gas, which has been driving down co 2 production around the world, we instead are choosing to litter the landscape with windmills and solar panels, which, by the way, are made out of what? materials from china, which, by the way, come from what? they come from forced child labor, which is going out and forcing children to have to go out and be in work camps, to go mine the cobalt necessary for batteries, mine the minerals that are necessary for all the solar panels, the solar panels and the windmills that all have to be buried and filled in the ground, all of which, by the way, produces unreliable energy and puts us behind the rest of the world in energy production when 3 billion people on this planet do not even have reliable energy. we are literally shooting ourselves in the economic foot. that is what we are doing. we are doing it all because, i do not know, the feels. i do not know, put a sticker on your tesla while you drive around and feel good about yourself. pat yourself on the back when you are [[page h4205]] not denting co 2 production. you could actually get rid of every internal combustion engine car in america and you would not reduce co 2 around the world by less than about 1\1/2\ percent, if at all. the radical climate change executive orders by the president are undermining our national security, forcing the dod, dhs, all these executive branch agencies to weaken their ability to be productive and get their job done. can you imagine the border patrol cannot even talk right now on radios? they cannot even communicate when they move along the border, if they are even allowed to go man the border. instead, they are changing diapers in some room in one of the ports of entry because we have been dumping people in through parole policies. now they are going to be stuck down there trying to charge their batteries, hoping they can even go find the people crossing the river. you cannot even make this crap up. if you set out to destroy a country, if you set out to literally destroy a country, i do not know how you could come up with policies better than those of the radical, progressive democrats, who want to remake this country in their radical, leftist image. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, this is yet another attempt by my colleagues across the aisle to attack any effort by the biden administration to tackle the climate crisis and help our communities become more climate resilient. it is obviously misguided, antiscience, and will put all of us at greater risk of harm as a result of climate disasters. only flawed and shortsighted thinking would presume that the climate crisis does not intersect with so many of the issues relevant to the department's mission, including migration, national security, and disaster relief. mr. chair, i will vote ``no,'' and i encourage my colleagues to do the same. i yield back the balance of my time. mr. roy. mr. chair, i would just note that it is critically important that we adopt these amendments to restrict the executive branch from carrying out these executive orders. they are undermining our efficiency and effectiveness. mr. chair, i urge adoption of this amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from texas (mr. roy). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 56 offered by mr. amodei the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 56 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. amodei. mr. chairman, i rise as the designee of congresswoman stefanik to offer and support amendment no. 56. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. the salary of nejwa ali, u.s. citizenship and immigration services adjudication officer, shall be reduced to $1. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from nevada (mr. amodei) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from nevada. mr. amodei. mr. chairman, i rise in support of the amendment and thank the gentlewoman from new york for offering it. our conference has been quite clear about standing with israel in their fight against a brutal and inhumane terrorist organization that not only committed the deadliest attack on the jewish people since the holocaust but continues to hold innocent men, women, and children as hostages. i also recognize the jewish community has been the target of increasing anti-semitism, which was one of the reasons for the amendment that we did earlier regarding supplementing fema's program for protection against bigotry. bigotry has no place in america. it certainly has no place in the department of homeland security. nejwa ali is a dhs immigration adjudication officer. she was exposed celebrating the october 7 terrorist attack online. it was later revealed that she previously worked for the palestine liberation organization, also known as the plo, which some people would say has a troublesome reputation, to put it kindly. their reputation is in the tank when it comes to anti-semitic policies and things like that. during the budget hearing this last april, secretary mayorkas confirmed for us that she was still employed and on paid administrative leave in april, and the department confirmed to my staff within the last 2 weeks that this continues to be the case. this is unacceptable. the department has had more than 8 months to investigate and terminate this employee with cause pursuant to the applicable civil service regulations. while the secretary and biden administration refuse to do the right thing, i invite the members of the house of representatives to terminate this employee. we must do the right thing and act with urgency to force their hand. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote ``yes,'' and i yield back the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chairman, i appreciate the temptation to take congressional action against government individuals when we hear they have done something that we find offensive, but as lawmakers, it is important that we defend the core principles upon which our country is founded, and that includes a system of checks and balances. we know from the secretary's testimony earlier this year that there is an active investigation related to nejwa ali, a trump-era hire, and that she has been placed on leave and is not performing the duties and responsibilities for which she was hired. we must allow this process to work. ironically, the bill we are considering today would cut important departmental resources that are meant to strengthen its personnel security vetting policies and procedures, such as a cut of nearly $14 million to the office of the chief security officer. it is a shame that, throughout this process, my majority colleagues continue to criticize the department for not doing its job while at the same time they propose cutting the resources the department needs to address the very concerns that they continue to raise. in addition, i would be remiss if i did not point out that this amendment also raises constitutional issues. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and i yield back the balance of my time. {time} 1500 the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from nevada (mr. amodei). the amendment was agreed to. amendment no. 57 offered by mr. steube the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 57 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. steube. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be used to make payments to the department of veterans affairs for medical claims of individuals detained by immigration and customs enforcement. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from florida (mr. steube) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from florida. mr. steube. mr. chair, i rise today in support of my amendment that would prohibit immigration and customs enforcement from sending funds to the department of veterans affairs to process medical claims for illegal immigrants in ice custody. this is a similar amendment to one that i led earlier this month on the [[page h4206]] funding bill for the va. i was pleased that my amendment was included in that bill, and i urge my colleagues to support this amendment that would ensure that the va focuses its resources on veterans, not illegal immigrants. last december, i led a letter to the va with 23 other republican members after seeing reports that ice was using va personnel to process medical claims for illegal immigrants in ice custody. thanks to the biden administration's reckless policy on the border, we continue to see record numbers of illegal crossings. this will inevitably increase the burden on va workers who should be fulfilling their duties to serve veterans instead. the va exists to serve american veterans who risked their lives to protect our country. for far too long, the va has fallen short on its mission: to fulfill president lincoln's promise ``to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan'' by serving and honoring the men and women who are america's veterans. veterans continue to experience unacceptable wait times in receiving medical care and disability benefits. under the biden administration, the disability claims backlog has exploded. as of last week, there are 273,307 outstanding disability claims that have been pending for more than 125 days. this is unacceptable, and the va personnel should not lift a finger for illegal immigrants in ice custody while thousands of veterans are forced to wait to receive the benefits they deserve. mr. chair, i ask my colleagues to support this amendment to ensure that va personnel work for veterans, not illegal immigrants held by ice. i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, the department of veterans affairs' financial services center provides a purely administrative function for immigration and customs enforcement to process third-party medical claims for those in cbp's and ice's custody. regardless of your stance on immigration, those seeking medical attention should not be denied access to care. the third-party medical providers who provide any medical care that cannot be provided within ice and cbp facilities deserve to be paid in a timely and accurate manner. the va's financial services center has that capability, and we are fortunate that it does. this is not unlike how the department of agriculture's national finance center is the finance center that is used to process the payment of paychecks for thousands of employees across the federal government. further, this amendment does not prevent ice from providing medical care to those in its custody. it will simply make it more expensive and more cumbersome not only for dhs but also for the local medical service providers seeking reimbursement for the services that they provided. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to oppose the amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. steube. mr. chair, the money appropriated by this body and by congress for the va, for veterans and for veterans healthcare, should not be used to provide medical claims for illegal immigrants. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from florida (mr. steube). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from florida will be postponed. amendment no. 58 offered by mr. tiffany the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 58 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. tiffany. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to grant temporary protected status under section 244 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1254a) to any national of el salvador. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. tiffany) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from wisconsin. mr. tiffany. mr. chair, this amendment would prohibit the expenditure of funds to extend what is known as temporary protected status, or tps, for nationals of el salvador. tps is a tool provided by congress that allows for the president, acting through the department of homeland security, to allow foreign nationals to remain temporarily in the united states if conditions in their home country are too dangerous to send them back. the intent was to authorize a short reprieve from removal, with the idea being that the beneficiaries would be repatriated when conditions improved. unfortunately, however, like so many immigration laws, this narrow authority has been repeatedly abused. nationals of el salvador, for example, were granted tps in the chaotic aftermath of an earthquake. here is the problem: that earthquake was in 2001, more than two decades ago. mr. chair, times have changed. since 2001, america has had four presidents and el salvador has had five. el salvador now boasts the lowest homicide rate of any country in our hemisphere, other than canada, not to mention a robust tourism ministry that markets whale watching, surfing, gourmet coffee tours, scenic volcano hikes, and posh all-inclusive resorts. mr. chair, i am glad that el salvador has recovered from the 2001 earthquake, and i applaud the progress their leader has made in combating crime and promoting economic reform. however, the ``t'' in tps stands for ``temporary.'' tps was never intended to operate as a permanent loophole to provide rolling amnesty to hundreds of thousands of foreign nationals, most of whom were here illegally to begin with. mr. chair, i ask for a ``yes'' vote on the amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, throughout the debate today, it is not clear if our colleagues saw today's announcement, so i just want to make sure that we all know that the presidential proclamation issued by president biden to temporarily suspend the entry of certain noncitizens across the southern border and the complementary joint interim final rule issued by dhs and doj have now been in effect for 3 weeks, resulting in a significant reduction in the number of encounters at our southwest border. under that interim final rule, asylum eligibility is generally limited for those who cross the southern border unlawfully or without authorization during times of high encounters. while it is still early, the border patrol's 7-day encounter average has decreased more than 40 percent to under 2,400 encounters per day. the immigration and nationality act outlines the conditions under which a country may be designated for temporary protected status, and it requires periodic reviews to determine whether the conditions for this status continue to be met. based on uscis' latest review, the secretary extended el salvador's tps designation through march 9, 2025. since the earthquakes of 2001, el salvador has continued to suffer from hurricanes, floods, and other natural disasters, making it difficult for the country to fully recover and allow for the safe return of individuals currently receiving tps benefits. el salvador also continues to struggle with gang violence, crime, and general insecurity and economic instability, which pose risks to the safety and well-being of any potential returnee. [[page h4207]] i encourage my colleagues to take these concerns to the appropriate authorizing committee if the gentleman feels that the ina should be amended in any way, but singling out a country through this amendment process is an inappropriate way to handle this matter. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote ``no'' on the amendment, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. tiffany. mr. chair, i yield 30 seconds to the gentleman from nevada (mr. amodei). mr. amodei. mr. chair, i will just put on the record that i associate myself with the remarks of mr. tiffany, and i support the amendment. mr. tiffany. mr. chair, i reserve the balance of my time. the acting chair. the gentleman from wisconsin has the only time remaining. mr. tiffany. mr. chair, i would just add, in response to the comments that we just heard from the other side of the aisle, they should tell the american people who have suffered through the fentanyl deaths that are the number one killer of young people in america. tell that to the american people as they see terrorists come into this country. tell this to the people of america as they see murders happen all over the country, including people dying in my district clear up in northern wisconsin. we also heard about continuous natural disasters. there are always natural disasters in every country. do we let people from every country come in just because they have natural disasters? this is tps. it is temporary. twenty years is plenty of temporary. it is time to stop the temporary protected status for el salvador. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. tiffany). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from wisconsin will be postponed. amendment no. 59 offered by mr. tiffany the acting chair. it is now in order to consider amendment no. 59 printed in part c of house report 118-559. mr. tiffany. mr. chair, i have an amendment at the desk. the acting chair. the clerk will designate the amendment. the text of the amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the following: sec. __. none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by this act may be made available to grant temporary protected status under section 244 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1254a) to any national of honduras. the acting chair. pursuant to house resolution 1316, the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. tiffany) and a member opposed each will control 5 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from wisconsin. mr. tiffany. mr. chair, this amendment is very similar to the prior amendment. it prohibits the expenditure of funds to extend temporary protected status, in this case to nationals from honduras. that ``t'' in tps is important because it stands for ``temporary.'' in the case of honduras, this temporary designation was issued in response to a hurricane. when did that hurricane make landfall, you might ask? it was in october of 1998. bill clinton was in the white house, gasoline was $1.05 per gallon, microsoft had just replaced general electric as america's most valuable company, and the first blackberry would not hit store shelves for another year. yet this temporary amnesty continues. like el salvador, conditions in honduras have improved. the country elected a new president in 2022, completing a peaceful transfer of power. honduras also has an active tourism industry, marketing ziplining, visits to u.n. world heritage sites, world-class scuba diving, and some of the caribbean's best beaches and all-inclusive resorts. if honduras is safe enough to welcome millions of tourists each year, is not it safe enough to welcome hondurans back home? mr. chair, it is time to put the ``t'' back in tps. tps was never intended to be the ``hotel california'' that says illegal aliens can check in anytime but they can never leave. mr. chair, i ask for a ``yes'' vote on the amendment, and i reserve the balance of my time. ms. underwood. mr. chair, i claim the time in opposition to the amendment. the acting chair. the gentlewoman from illinois is recognized for 5 minutes. ms. underwood. mr. chair, the immigration and nationality act outlines the conditions under which a country may be designated for temporary protected status, and it requires periodic reviews to determine whether the conditions for the status continue to be met. based on uscis' latest review, the secretary extended honduras' tps designation through july 5, 2025. since the devastation caused by hurricane mitch in 1998, honduras has continued to suffer from hurricanes, floods, tropical storms, and other natural disasters, making it difficult for the country to fully recover and allow for the safe return of individuals currently receiving tps benefits. honduras also continues to struggle with gang violence, drug trafficking, crime, and economic instability, which pose risks to the safety and well-being of any potential returnee. {time} 1515 i encourage my colleagues to take their concerns to the appropriate authorizing committee if the gentleman feels that the ina should be amended in any way, but singling out a country through this amendment process is an inappropriate way to handle this matter. mr. chair, i urge my colleagues to vote ``no,'' and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. tiffany. mr. chairman, this is the appropriate forum to bring this before. it is to deny funding for something that is no longer temporary. this has become, we might as well rename it pps, permanent protective status rather than tps. this is the appropriate venue to deny the funding to allow the president to continue to use this just like every other means, whether it is parole and all other type things, to be able to allow people to illegally come into our country. by the way, what country around the world has not had a natural disaster? are we going to let people come in from every country in the world when there is a hurricane, a typhoon, or an earthquake, whatever natural disaster happens? that is what we are being set up for here. when we hear gang violence being talked about, why is there so much gang violence in those countries? it is, in part, because we have open borders. i was in panama 3 years ago. i went to the darien gap. i saw what was going on down there when hundreds of thousands of people were coming in through the darien gap. it is now tens of thousands of people who are going through the darien gap making their way up through central america, including honduras. that is, in part, what is destabilizing these countries. if we would pass h.r. 2 and we had a president who chose to secure the border, then we would see safer countries, and we would no longer need tps in countries like honduras. mr. chair, i yield back the balance of my time. the acting chair. the question is on the amendment offered by the gentleman from wisconsin (mr. tiffany). the question was taken; and the acting chair announced that the ayes appeared to have it. ms. underwood. madam chair, i demand a recorded vote. the acting chair. pursuant to clause 6 of rule xviii, further proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from wisconsin will be postponed. mr. amodei. mr. chairman, i move that the committee do now rise. the motion was agreed to. accordingly, the committee rose; and the speaker pro tempore (mr. tiffany) having assumed the chair, mr. [[page h4208]] desjarlais, acting chair of the committee of the whole house on the state of the union, reported that that committee, having had under consideration the bill (h.r. 8752), making appropriations for the department of homeland security for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2025, and for other purposes, had come to no resolution thereon. ____________________