[congressional record volume 170, number 69 (friday, april 19, 2024)] [house] [pages h2532-h2533] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] providing for consideration of h.r. 8034, israel security supplemental appropriations act, 2024; providing for consideration of h.r. 8035, ukraine security supplemental appropriations act, 2024; providing for consideration of h.r. 8036, indo-pacific security supplemental appropriations act, 2024; providing for consideration of h.r. 8038, 21st century peace through strength act; and providing for concurrence by the house in the senate amendment to h.r. 815, with an amendment the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, the unfinished business is the vote on adoption of house resolution 1160; providing for consideration of the bill (h.r. 8034), making emergency supplemental appropriations to respond to the situation in israel and for related expenses for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2024, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (h.r. 8035) making emergency supplemental appropriations to respond to the situation in ukraine and for related expenses for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2024, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (h.r. 8036) making emergency supplemental appropriations for assistance for the indo-pacific region and for related expenses for the fiscal year ending september 30, 2024, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill (h.r. 8038) to authorize the president to impose certain sanctions with respect to russia and iran, and for other purposes; and providing for the concurrence by the house in the senate amendment to h.r. 815, with an amendment, on which the yeas and nays were ordered. the clerk read the title of the resolution. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on adoption of the resolution. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 316, nays 94, not voting 21, as follows: [[page h2533]] [roll no. 142] yeas--316 adams aderholt aguilar allred amo amodei armstrong arrington auchincloss babin bacon balderson barr bean (fl) beatty bentz bera bergman beyer bice bilirakis blumenauer blunt rochester bonamici bost boyle (pa) brown brownley bucshon budzinski burgess calvert cammack carbajal cardenas carey carl carter (la) carter (tx) cartwright case casten castor (fl) chavez-deremer cherfilus-mccormick chu ciscomani clark (ma) clarke (ny) cleaver cohen cole comer connolly correa costa courtney craig crawford crenshaw crow cuellar curtis d'esposito davids (ks) davis (nc) de la cruz dean (pa) degette delauro delbene deluzio diaz-balart duarte dunn (fl) edwards ellzey emmer eshoo espaillat estes evans ezell fallon feenstra ferguson finstad fischbach fitzgerald fitzpatrick fleischmann fletcher flood foster foushee foxx frankel, lois franklin, scott fry gallagher gallego garamendi garbarino garcia (tx) garcia, mike gimenez golden (me) goldman (ny) gomez gonzales, tony gonzalez, vicente gottheimer graves (la) graves (mo) green, al (tx) grothman guest guthrie harder (ca) hayes hern hill himes hinson horsford houchin houlahan hoyer hoyle (or) hudson huffman issa ivey jackson (nc) jackson (tx) jackson lee jacobs james jeffries johnson (ga) johnson (la) johnson (sd) jordan joyce (oh) joyce (pa) kaptur kean (nj) keating kelly (il) kelly (ms) kelly (pa) kildee kiley kilmer kim (ca) kim (nj) krishnamoorthi kuster kustoff lahood lalota lamborn landsman langworthy larsen (wa) larson (ct) latta laturner lawler lee (fl) leger fernandez letlow lieu lofgren loudermilk lucas luttrell lynch maloy manning mast matsui mcbath mccaul mcclain mcclellan mcclintock mccollum mcgovern mchenry meeks menendez meng meuser mfume miller (oh) miller (wv) miller-meeks molinaro moolenaar moore (ut) moore (wi) moran morelle moskowitz moulton mrvan murphy nadler napolitano neal neguse newhouse nickel norcross nunn (ia) obernolte owens pallone palmer panetta pappas pascrell pelosi peltola pence perez peters pettersen pfluger phillips quigley reschenthaler rodgers (wa) rogers (al) rogers (ky) ross rouzer ruiz ruppersberger rutherford ryan salazar salinas sanchez scalise scanlon schakowsky schiff schneider scholten schrier schweikert scott (va) scott, austin scott, david sessions sewell sherman sherrill simpson slotkin smith (ne) smith (nj) smith (wa) smucker sorensen soto spanberger stansbury stanton stauber steel stefanik steil stevens strickland strong suozzi sykes takano tenney thanedar thompson (ca) thompson (pa) titus tokuda tonko torres (ca) torres (ny) trahan trone turner valadao van drew van duyne van orden vargas vasquez veasey velazquez wagner walberg wasserman schultz wenstrup westerman wexton wild williams (ny) williams (tx) wilson (fl) wilson (sc) wittman womack yakym zinke nays--94 alford baird balint banks barragan biggs bishop (nc) boebert bowman brecheen burchett burlison bush carson casar cline cloud clyburn clyde collins crane crockett davidson davis (il) desaulnier desjarlais dingell doggett donalds duncan escobar frost fulcher gaetz garcia (il) garcia, robert good (va) gooden (tx) gosar green (tn) greene (ga) griffith hageman harshbarger higgins (la) jackson (il) jayapal kamlager-dove khanna lamalfa lee (ca) lee (pa) lesko levin luna mace malliotakis mann massie mccormick mcgarvey miller (il) mills moore (al) mullin nehls norman ocasio-cortez ogles omar perry pingree pocan posey pressley ramirez raskin rose rosendale roy sarbanes self spartz steube thompson (ms) tiffany timmons tlaib underwood waltz waters watson coleman webster (fl) williams (ga) not voting--21 allen bishop (ga) buchanan caraveo carter (ga) castro (tx) granger grijalva harris huizenga hunt kiggans (va) lee (nv) luetkemeyer magaziner mooney payne porter smith (mo) swalwell weber (tx) {time} 1101 mr. carson and ms. ocasio-cortez changed their vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.'' mr. aguilar, mses. lofgren, bonamici, degette, mr. veasey, ms. adams, mr. takano, and mrs. trahan changed their vote from ``nay'' to ``yea.'' so the resolution was agreed to. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. stated for: mrs. kiggans of virginia. mr. speaker, i was unavoidably detained due to family obligations, i regret missing the one vote today. if i had been present, i would have voted to support h. res. 1160. had i been present, i would have voted yea on roll call no. 142. mr. huizenga. mr. speaker, had i been present, i would have voted yea on roll call no. 142. ms. lee of nevada. mr. speaker, my vote was not recorded today. had i been present, i would have voted yea on roll call no. 142. mr. payne. mr. speaker, i was unable to cast my vote for roll call vote no. 142. had i been present, i would have voted yea on h. res. 1160. ms. porter. mr. speaker, i was unable to be present to cast my vote on roll call 142 today. had i been present, i would have voted yea. ms. underwood. mr. speaker, during roll call vote no. 142 on h. res. 1160, i recorded my vote as nay when i intended to vote yea. stated against: mr. allen. mr. speaker, had i been present, i would have voted nay on roll call no. 142. ____________________