[congressional record volume 170, number 69 (friday, april 19, 2024)] [house] [pages h2533-h2555] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] end the border catastrophe act mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 3602) to prohibit the intentional hindering of immigration, border, and customs controls, and for other purposes, as amended. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 3602 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title; table of contents. (a) short title.--this act may be cited as the ``end the border catastrophe act''. (b) table of contents.--the table of contents for this act is as follows: sec. 1. short title; table of contents. division a--border security sec. 101. definitions. sec. 102. border wall construction. sec. 103. strengthening the requirements for barriers along the southern border. sec. 104. border and port security technology investment plan. sec. 105. border security technology program management. sec. 106. u.s. customs and border protection technology upgrades. sec. 107. u.s. customs and border protection personnel. sec. 108. anti-border corruption act reauthorization. sec. 109. establishment of workload staffing models for u.s. border patrol and air and marine operations of cbp. sec. 110. operation stonegarden. sec. 111. air and marine operations flight hours. sec. 112. eradication of carrizo cane and salt cedar. sec. 113. border patrol strategic plan. sec. 114. u.s. customs and border protection spiritual readiness. sec. 115. restrictions on funding. sec. 116. collection of dna and biometric information at the border. sec. 117. eradication of narcotic drugs and formulating effective new tools to address yearly losses of life; ensuring timely updates to u.s. customs and border protection field manuals. [[page h2534]] sec. 118. publication by u.s. customs and border protection of operational statistics. sec. 119. alien criminal background checks. sec. 120. prohibited identification documents at airport security checkpoints; notification to immigration agencies. sec. 121. prohibition against any covid-19 vaccine mandate or adverse action against dhs employees. sec. 122. cbp one app limitation. sec. 123. report on mexican drug cartels. sec. 124. gao study on costs incurred by states to secure the southwest border. sec. 125. report by inspector general of the department of homeland security. sec. 126. offsetting authorizations of appropriations. sec. 127. report to congress on foreign terrorist organizations. sec. 128. assessment by inspector general of the department of homeland security on the mitigation of unmanned aircraft systems at the southwest border. division b--immigration enforcement and foreign affairs title i--asylum reform and border protection sec. 101. safe third country. sec. 102. credible fear interviews. sec. 103. clarification of asylum eligibility. sec. 104. exceptions. sec. 105. employment authorization. sec. 106. asylum fees. sec. 107. rules for determining asylum eligibility. sec. 108. firm resettlement. sec. 109. notice concerning frivolous asylum applications. sec. 110. technical amendments. sec. 111. requirement for procedures relating to certain asylum applications. title ii--border safety and migrant protection sec. 201. inspection of applicants for admission. sec. 202. operational detention facilities. title iii--preventing uncontrolled migration flows in the western hemisphere sec. 301. united states policy regarding western hemisphere cooperation on immigration and asylum. sec. 302. negotiations by secretary of state. sec. 303. mandatory briefings on united states efforts to address the border crisis. title iv--ensuring united families at the border sec. 401. clarification of standards for family detention. title v--protection of children sec. 501. findings. sec. 502. repatriation of unaccompanied alien children. sec. 503. special immigrant juvenile status for immigrants unable to reunite with either parent. sec. 504. rule of construction. title vi--visa overstays penalties sec. 601. expanded penalties for illegal entry or presence. title vii--immigration parole reform sec. 701. immigration parole reform. sec. 702. implementation. sec. 703. cause of action. sec. 704. severability. title viii--supporting our border states sec. 801. border barrier grants. sec. 802. law enforcement reimbursement grants. sec. 803. border emergency and state security fund. sec. 804. definitions. division a--border security sec. 101. definitions. in this division: (1) cbp.--the term ``cbp'' means u.s. customs and border protection. (2) commissioner.--the term ``commissioner'' means the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection. (3) department.--the term ``department'' means the department of homeland security. (4) operational control.--the term ``operational control'' has the meaning given such term in section 2(b) of the secure fence act of 2006 (public law 109-367; 8 u.s.c. 1701 note). (5) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of homeland security. (6) situational awareness.--the term ``situational awareness'' has the meaning given such term in section 1092(a)(7) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2017 (public law 114-328; 6 u.s.c. 223(a)(7)). (7) unmanned aircraft system.--the term ``unmanned aircraft system'' has the meaning given such term in section 44801 of title 49, united states code. sec. 102. border wall construction. (a) in general.-- (1) immediate resumption of border wall construction.--not later than seven days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary shall resume all activities related to the construction of the border wall along the border between the united states and mexico that were underway or being planned for prior to january 20, 2021. (2) use of funds.--to carry out this section, the secretary shall expend all unexpired funds appropriated or explicitly obligated for the construction of the border wall that were appropriated or obligated, as the case may be, for use beginning on october 1, 2019. (3) use of materials.--any unused materials purchased before the date of the enactment of this act for construction of the border wall may be used for activities related to the construction of the border wall in accordance with paragraph (1). (b) plan to complete tactical infrastructure and technology.--not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act and annually thereafter until construction of the border wall has been completed, the secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an implementation plan, including annual benchmarks for the construction of 200 miles of such wall and associated cost estimates for satisfying all requirements of the construction of the border wall, including installation and deployment of tactical infrastructure, technology, and other elements as identified by the department prior to january 20, 2021, through the expenditure of funds appropriated or explicitly obligated, as the case may be, for use, as well as any future funds appropriated or otherwise made available by congress. (c) definitions.--in this section: (1) appropriate congressional committees.--the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the committee on homeland security and the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs and the committee on appropriations of the senate. (2) tactical infrastructure.--the term ``tactical infrastructure'' includes boat ramps, access gates, checkpoints, lighting, and roads associated with a border wall. (3) technology.--the term ``technology'' includes border surveillance and detection technology, including linear ground detection systems, associated with a border wall. sec. 103. strengthening the requirements for barriers along the southern border. section 102 of the illegal immigration reform and immigrant responsibility act of 1996 (division c of public law 104-208; 8 u.s.c. 1103 note) is amended-- (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows: ``(a) in general.--the secretary of homeland security shall take such actions as may be necessary (including the removal of obstacles to detection of illegal entrants) to design, test, construct, install, deploy, integrate, and operate physical barriers, tactical infrastructure, and technology in the vicinity of the southwest border to achieve situational awareness and operational control of the southwest border and deter, impede, and detect unlawful activity.''; (2) in subsection (b)-- (a) in the subsection heading, by striking ``fencing and road improvements'' and inserting ``physical barriers''; (b) in paragraph (1)-- (i) in the heading, by striking ``fencing'' and inserting ``barriers''; (ii) by amending subparagraph (a) to read as follows: ``(a) reinforced barriers.--in carrying out this section, the secretary of homeland security shall construct a border wall, including physical barriers, tactical infrastructure, and technology, along not fewer than 900 miles of the southwest border until situational awareness and operational control of the southwest border is achieved.''; (iii) by amending subparagraph (b) to read as follows: ``(b) physical barriers and tactical infrastructure.--in carrying out this section, the secretary of homeland security shall deploy along the southwest border the most practical and effective physical barriers, tactical infrastructure, and technology available for achieving situational awareness and operational control of the southwest border.''; (iv) in subparagraph (c)-- (i) by amending clause (i) to read as follows: ``(i) in general.--in carrying out this section, the secretary of homeland security shall consult with the secretary of the interior, the secretary of agriculture, appropriate representatives of state, tribal, and local governments, and appropriate private property owners in the united states to minimize the impact on natural resources, commerce, and sites of historical or cultural significance for the communities and residents located near the sites at which physical barriers, tactical infrastructure, and technology are to be constructed. such consultation may not delay such construction for longer than seven days.''; and (ii) in clause (ii)-- (aa) in subclause (i), by striking ``or'' after the semicolon at the end; (bb) by amending subclause (ii) to read as follows: ``(ii) delay the transfer to the united states of the possession of property or affect the validity of any property acquisition by the united states by purchase or eminent domain, or to otherwise affect the eminent domain laws of the united states or of any state; or''; and (cc) by adding at the end the following new subclause: [[page h2535]] ``(iii) create any right or liability for any party.''; and (v) by striking subparagraph (d); (c) in paragraph (2)-- (i) by striking ``attorney general'' and inserting ``secretary of homeland security''; (ii) by striking ``this subsection'' and inserting ``this section''; and (iii) by striking ``construction of fences'' and inserting ``the construction of physical barriers, tactical infrastructure, and technology''; (d) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows: ``(3) agent safety.--in carrying out this section, the secretary of homeland security, when designing, testing, constructing, installing, deploying, integrating, and operating physical barriers, tactical infrastructure, or technology, shall incorporate such safety features into such design, test, construction, installation, deployment, integration, or operation of such physical barriers, tactical infrastructure, or technology, as the case may be, that the secretary determines are necessary to maximize the safety and effectiveness of officers and agents of the department of homeland security or of any other federal agency deployed in the vicinity of such physical barriers, tactical infrastructure, or technology.''; and (e) in paragraph (4), by striking ``this subsection'' and inserting ``this section''; (3) in subsection (c)-- (a) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows: ``(1) in general.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, the secretary of homeland security shall waive all legal requirements necessary to ensure the expeditious design, testing, construction, installation, deployment, integration, operation, and maintenance of the physical barriers, tactical infrastructure, and technology under this section. the secretary shall ensure the maintenance and effectiveness of such physical barriers, tactical infrastructure, or technology. any such action by the secretary shall be effective upon publication in the federal register.''; (b) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and (c) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph: ``(2) notification.--not later than seven days after the date on which the secretary of homeland security exercises a waiver pursuant to paragraph (1), the secretary shall notify the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate of such waiver.''; and (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections: ``(e) technology.--in carrying out this section, the secretary of homeland security shall deploy along the southwest border the most practical and effective technology available for achieving situational awareness and operational control. ``(f) definitions.--in this section: ``(1) advanced unattended surveillance sensors.--the term `advanced unattended surveillance sensors' means sensors that utilize an onboard computer to analyze detections in an effort to discern between vehicles, humans, and animals, and ultimately filter false positives prior to transmission. ``(2) operational control.--the term `operational control' has the meaning given such term in section 2(b) of the secure fence act of 2006 (public law 109-367; 8 u.s.c. 1701 note). ``(3) physical barriers.--the term `physical barriers' includes reinforced fencing, the border wall, and levee walls. ``(4) situational awareness.--the term `situational awareness' has the meaning given such term in section 1092(a)(7) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2017 (public law 114-328; 6 u.s.c. 223(a)(7)). ``(5) tactical infrastructure.--the term `tactical infrastructure' includes boat ramps, access gates, checkpoints, lighting, and roads. ``(6) technology.--the term `technology' includes border surveillance and detection technology, including the following: ``(a) tower-based surveillance technology. ``(b) deployable, lighter-than-air ground surveillance equipment. ``(c) vehicle and dismount exploitation radars (vader). ``(d) 3-dimensional, seismic acoustic detection and ranging border tunneling detection technology. ``(e) advanced unattended surveillance sensors. ``(f) mobile vehicle-mounted and man-portable surveillance capabilities. ``(g) unmanned aircraft systems. ``(h) tunnel detection systems and other seismic technology. ``(i) fiber-optic cable. ``(j) other border detection, communication, and surveillance technology. ``(7) unmanned aircraft system.--the term `unmanned aircraft system' has the meaning given such term in section 44801 of title 49, united states code.''. sec. 104. border and port security technology investment plan. (a) in general.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the commissioner, in consultation with covered officials and border and port security technology stakeholders, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a strategic 5-year technology investment plan (in this section referred to as the ``plan''). the plan may include a classified annex, if appropriate. (b) contents of plan.--the plan shall include the following: (1) an analysis of security risks at and between ports of entry along the northern and southern borders of the united states. (2) an identification of capability gaps with respect to security at and between such ports of entry to be mitigated in order to-- (a) prevent terrorists and instruments of terror from entering the united states; (b) combat and reduce cross-border criminal activity, including-- (i) the transport of illegal goods, such as illicit drugs; and (ii) human smuggling and human trafficking; and (c) facilitate the flow of legal trade across the southwest border. (3) an analysis of current and forecast trends relating to the number of aliens who-- (a) unlawfully entered the united states by crossing the northern or southern border of the united states; or (b) are unlawfully present in the united states. (4) a description of security-related technology acquisitions, to be listed in order of priority, to address the security risks and capability gaps analyzed and identified pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively. (5) a description of each planned security-related technology program, including objectives, goals, and timelines for each such program. (6) an identification of each deployed security-related technology that is at or near the end of the life cycle of such technology. (7) a description of the test, evaluation, modeling, and simulation capabilities, including target methodologies, rationales, and timelines, necessary to support the acquisition of security-related technologies pursuant to paragraph (4). (8) an identification and assessment of ways to increase opportunities for communication and collaboration with the private sector, small and disadvantaged businesses, intragovernment entities, university centers of excellence, and federal laboratories to ensure cbp is able to engage with the market for security-related technologies that are available to satisfy its mission needs before engaging in an acquisition of a security-related technology. (9) an assessment of the management of planned security- related technology programs by the acquisition workforce of cbp. (10) an identification of ways to leverage already-existing acquisition expertise within the federal government. (11) a description of the security resources, including information security resources, required to protect security- related technology from physical or cyber theft, diversion, sabotage, or attack. (12) a description of initiatives to-- (a) streamline the acquisition process of cbp; and (b) provide to the private sector greater predictability and transparency with respect to such process, including information relating to the timeline for testing and evaluation of security-related technology. (13) an assessment of the privacy and security impact on border communities of security-related technology. (14) in the case of a new acquisition leading to the removal of equipment from a port of entry along the northern or southern border of the united states, a strategy to consult with the private sector and community stakeholders affected by such removal. (15) a strategy to consult with the private sector and community stakeholders with respect to security impacts at a port of entry described in paragraph (14). (16) an identification of recent technological advancements in the following: (a) manned aircraft sensor, communication, and common operating picture technology. (b) unmanned aerial systems and related technology, including counter-unmanned aerial system technology. (c) surveillance technology, including the following: (i) mobile surveillance vehicles. (ii) associated electronics, including cameras, sensor technology, and radar. (iii) tower-based surveillance technology. (iv) advanced unattended surveillance sensors. (v) deployable, lighter-than-air, ground surveillance equipment. (d) nonintrusive inspection technology, including non-x-ray devices utilizing muon tomography and other advanced detection technology. (e) tunnel detection technology. (f) communications equipment, including the following: (i) radios. (ii) long-term evolution broadband. (iii) miniature satellites. (c) leveraging the private sector.--to the extent practicable, the plan shall-- (1) leverage emerging technological capabilities, and research and development trends, within the public and private sectors; (2) incorporate input from the private sector, including from border and port security stakeholders, through requests for information, industry day events, and other innovative means consistent with the federal acquisition regulation; and (3) identify security-related technologies that are in development or deployed, with or [[page h2536]] without adaptation, that may satisfy the mission needs of cbp. (d) form.--to the extent practicable, the plan shall be published in unclassified form on the website of the department. (e) disclosure.--the plan shall include an identification of individuals not employed by the federal government, and their professional affiliations, who contributed to the development of the plan. (f) update and report.--not later than the date that is two years after the date on which the plan is submitted to the appropriate congressional committees pursuant to subsection (a) and biennially thereafter for ten years, the commissioner shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees-- (1) an update of the plan, if appropriate; and (2) a report that includes-- (a) the extent to which each security-related technology acquired by cbp since the initial submission of the plan or most recent update of the plan, as the case may be, is consistent with the planned technology programs and projects described pursuant to subsection (b)(5); and (b) the type of contract and the reason for acquiring each such security-related technology. (g) definitions.--in this section: (1) appropriate congressional committees.--the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means-- (a) the committee on homeland security and the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives; and (b) the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs and the committee on appropriations of the senate. (2) covered officials.--the term ``covered officials'' means-- (a) the under secretary for management of the department; (b) the under secretary for science and technology of the department; and (c) the chief information officer of the department. (3) unlawfully present.--the term ``unlawfully present'' has the meaning provided such term in section 212(a)(9)(b)(ii) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1182(a)(9)(b)(ii)). sec. 105. border security technology program management. (a) in general.--subtitle c of title iv of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 231 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section: ``sec. 437. border security technology program management. ``(a) major acquisition program defined.--in this section, the term `major acquisition program' means an acquisition program of the department that is estimated by the secretary to require an eventual total expenditure of at least $100,000,000 (based on fiscal year 2024 constant dollars) over its life-cycle cost. ``(b) planning documentation.--for each border security technology acquisition program of the department that is determined to be a major acquisition program, the secretary shall-- ``(1) ensure that each such program has a written acquisition program baseline approved by the relevant acquisition decision authority; ``(2) document that each such program is satisfying cost, schedule, and performance thresholds as specified in such baseline, in compliance with relevant departmental acquisition policies and the federal acquisition regulation; and ``(3) have a plan for satisfying program implementation objectives by managing contractor performance. ``(c) adherence to standards.--the secretary, acting through the under secretary for management and the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection, shall ensure border security technology acquisition program managers who are responsible for carrying out this section adhere to relevant internal control standards identified by the comptroller general of the united states. the commissioner shall provide information, as needed, to assist the under secretary in monitoring management of border security technology acquisition programs under this section. ``(d) plan.--the secretary, acting through the under secretary for management, in coordination with the under secretary for science and technology and the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection, shall submit to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate a plan for testing, evaluating, and using independent verification and validation of resources relating to the proposed acquisition of border security technology. under such plan, the proposed acquisition of new border security technologies shall be evaluated through a series of assessments, processes, and audits to ensure-- ``(1) compliance with relevant departmental acquisition policies and the federal acquisition regulation; and ``(2) the effective use of taxpayer dollars.''. (b) clerical amendment.--the table of contents in section 1(b) of the homeland security act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 436 the following new item: ``sec. 437. border security technology program management.''. (c) prohibition on additional authorization of appropriations.--no additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 437 of the homeland security act of 2002, as added by subsection (a). sec. 106. u.s. customs and border protection technology upgrades. (a) secure communications.--the commissioner shall ensure that each cbp officer or agent, as appropriate, is equipped with a secure radio or other two-way communication device that allows each such officer or agent to communicate-- (1) between ports of entry and inspection stations; and (2) with other federal, state, tribal, and local law enforcement entities. (b) border security deployment program.-- (1) expansion.--not later than september 30, 2026, the commissioner shall-- (a) fully implement the border security deployment program of cbp; and (b) expand the integrated surveillance and intrusion detection system at land ports of entry along the northern and southern borders of the united states. (2) authorization of appropriations.--in addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated for such purpose, there is authorized to be appropriated $33,000,000 for fiscal years 2025 and 2026 to carry out paragraph (1). (c) upgrade of license plate readers at ports of entry.-- (1) upgrade.--not later than two years after the date of the enactment of this act, the commissioner shall upgrade all existing license plate readers in need of upgrade, as determined by the commissioner, on the northern and southern borders of the united states. (2) authorization of appropriations.--in addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated for such purpose, there is authorized to be appropriated $125,000,000 for fiscal years 2024 and 2025 to carry out paragraph (1). sec. 107. u.s. customs and border protection personnel. (a) retention bonus.--to carry out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated up to $100,000,000 to the commissioner to provide a retention bonus to any front-line u.s. border patrol law enforcement agent-- (1) whose position is equal to or below level gs-12 of the general schedule; (2) who has five years or more of service with the u.s. border patrol; and (3) who commits to two years of additional service with the u.s. border patrol upon acceptance of such bonus. (b) border patrol agents.--not later than september 30, 2026, the commissioner shall hire, train, and assign a sufficient number of border patrol agents to maintain an active duty presence of not fewer than 22,000 full-time equivalent border patrol agents, who may not perform the duties of processing coordinators. (c) prohibition against alien travel.--no personnel or equipment of air and marine operations may be used for the transportation of non-detained aliens, or detained aliens expected to be administratively released upon arrival, from the southwest border to destinations within the united states. (d) gao report.--if the staffing level required under this section is not achieved by the date associated with such level, the comptroller general of the united states shall-- (1) conduct a review of the reasons why such level was not so achieved; and (2) not later than september 30, 2028, publish on a publicly available website of the government accountability office a report relating thereto. sec. 108. anti-border corruption act reauthorization. (a) hiring flexibility.--section 3 of the anti-border corruption act of 2010 (6 u.s.c. 221; public law 111-376) is amended by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following new subsections: ``(b) waiver requirement.--subject to subsection (c), the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection shall waive the application of subsection (a)(1)-- ``(1) to a current, full-time law enforcement officer employed by a state or local law enforcement agency who-- ``(a) has continuously served as a law enforcement officer for not fewer than three years; ``(b) is authorized by law to engage in or supervise the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person for, any violation of law, and has statutory powers for arrest or apprehension; and ``(c) is not currently under investigation, has not been found to have engaged in criminal activity or serious misconduct, has not resigned from a law enforcement officer position under investigation or in lieu of termination, and has not been dismissed from a law enforcement officer position; ``(2) to a current, full-time federal law enforcement officer who-- ``(a) has continuously served as a law enforcement officer for not fewer than three years; ``(b) is authorized to make arrests, conduct investigations, conduct searches, make seizures, carry firearms, and serve orders, warrants, and other processes; ``(c) is not currently under investigation, has not been found to have engaged in criminal activity or serious misconduct, has not [[page h2537]] resigned from a law enforcement officer position under investigation or in lieu of termination, and has not been dismissed from a law enforcement officer position; and ``(d) holds a current tier 4 background investigation or current tier 5 background investigation; or ``(3) to a member of the armed forces (or a reserve component thereof) or a veteran, if such individual-- ``(a) has served in the armed forces for not fewer than three years; ``(b) holds, or has held within the past five years, a secret, top secret, or top secret/sensitive compartmented information clearance; ``(c) holds, or has undergone within the past five years, a current tier 4 background investigation or current tier 5 background investigation; ``(d) received, or is eligible to receive, an honorable discharge from service in the armed forces and has not engaged in criminal activity or committed a serious military or civil offense under the uniform code of military justice; and ``(e) was not granted any waivers to obtain the clearance referred to in subparagraph (b). ``(c) termination of waiver requirement; snap-back.--the requirement to issue a waiver under subsection (b) shall terminate if the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection (cbp) certifies to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate that cbp has met all requirements pursuant to section 107 of division a of the end the border catastrophe act relating to personnel levels. if at any time after such certification personnel levels fall below such requirements, the commissioner shall waive the application of subsection (a)(1) until such time as the commissioner re-certifies to such committees that cbp has so met all such requirements.''. (b) supplemental commissioner authority; reporting; definitions.--the anti-border corruption act of 2010 is amended by adding at the end the following new sections: ``sec. 5. supplemental commissioner authority. ``(a) nonexemption.--an individual who receives a waiver under section 3(b) is not exempt from any other hiring requirements relating to suitability for employment and eligibility to hold a national security designated position, as determined by the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection. ``(b) background investigations.--an individual who receives a waiver under section 3(b) who holds a current tier 4 background investigation shall be subject to a tier 5 background investigation. ``(c) administration of polygraph examination.--the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection is authorized to administer a polygraph examination to an applicant or employee who is eligible for or receives a waiver under section 3(b) if information is discovered before the completion of a background investigation that results in a determination that a polygraph examination is necessary to make a final determination regarding suitability for employment or continued employment, as the case may be. ``sec. 6. reporting. ``(a) annual report.--not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this section and annually thereafter while the waiver authority under section 3(b) is in effect, the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection shall submit to congress a report that includes, with respect to each such reporting period, the following: ``(1) information relating to the number of waivers granted under such section 3(b). ``(2) information relating to the percentage of applicants who were hired after receiving such a waiver. ``(3) information relating to the number of instances that a polygraph was administered to an applicant who initially received such a waiver and the results of such polygraph. ``(4) an assessment of the current impact of such waiver authority on filling law enforcement positions at u.s. customs and border protection. ``(5) an identification of additional authorities needed by u.s. customs and border protection to better utilize such waiver authority for its intended goals. ``(b) additional information.--the first report submitted under subsection (a) shall include the following: ``(1) an analysis of other methods of employment suitability tests that detect deception and could be used in conjunction with traditional background investigations to evaluate potential applicants or employees for suitability for employment or continued employment, as the case may be. ``(2) a recommendation regarding whether a test referred to in paragraph (1) should be adopted by u.s. customs and border protection when the polygraph examination requirement is waived pursuant to section 3(b). ``sec. 7. definitions. ``in this act: ``(1) federal law enforcement officer.--the term `federal law enforcement officer' means a `law enforcement officer', as such term is defined in section 8331(20) or 8401(17) of title 5, united states code. ``(2) serious military or civil offense.--the term `serious military or civil offense' means an offense for which-- ``(a) a member of the armed forces may be discharged or separated from service in the armed forces; and ``(b) a punitive discharge is, or would be, authorized for the same or a closely related offense under the manual for court-martial, as pursuant to army regulation 635-200, chapter 14-12. ``(3) tier 4; tier 5.--the terms `tier 4' and `tier 5', with respect to background investigations, have the meaning given such terms under the 2012 federal investigative standards. ``(4) veteran.--the term `veteran' has the meaning given such term in section 101(2) of title 38, united states code.''. (c) polygraph examiners.--not later than september 30, 2025, the secretary shall increase to not fewer than 150 the number of trained full-time equivalent polygraph examiners for administering polygraphs under the anti-border corruption act of 2010, as amended by this section. sec. 109. establishment of workload staffing models for u.s. border patrol and air and marine operations of cbp. (a) in general.--not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this act, the commissioner, in coordination with the under secretary for management, the chief human capital officer, and the chief financial officer of the department, shall implement a workload staffing model for each of the following: (1) the u.s. border patrol. (2) air and marine operations of cbp. (b) responsibilities of the commissioner.--subsection (c) of section 411 of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 211), is amended-- (1) by redesignating paragraphs (18) and (19) as paragraphs (20) and (21), respectively; and (2) by inserting after paragraph (17) the following new paragraphs: ``(18) implement a staffing model for the u.s. border patrol, air and marine operations, and the office of field operations that includes consideration for essential frontline operator activities and functions, variations in operating environments, present and planned infrastructure, present and planned technology, and required operations support levels to enable such entities to manage and assign personnel of such entities to ensure field and support posts possess adequate resources to carry out duties specified in this section; ``(19) develop standard operating procedures for a workforce tracking system within the u.s. border patrol, air and marine operations, and the office of field operations, train the workforce of each of such entities on the use, capabilities, and purpose of such system, and implement internal controls to ensure timely and accurate scheduling and reporting of actual completed work hours and activities;''. (c) report.-- (1) in general.--not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this act with respect to subsection (a) and paragraphs (18) and (19) of section 411(c) of the homeland security act of 2002 (as amended by subsection (b)), and annually thereafter with respect to such paragraphs (18) and (19), the secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes a status update on the following: (a) the implementation of such subsection (a) and such paragraphs (18) and (19). (b) each relevant workload staffing model. (2) data sources and methodology required.--each report required under paragraph (1) shall include information relating to the data sources and methodology used to generate each relevant staffing model. (d) inspector general review.--not later than 90 days after the commissioner develops the workload staffing models pursuant to subsection (a), the inspector general of the department shall review such models and provide feedback to the secretary and the appropriate congressional committees with respect to the degree to which such models are responsive to the recommendations of the inspector general, including the following: (1) recommendations from the inspector general's february 2019 audit. (2) any further recommendations to improve such models. (e) appropriate congressional committees defined.--in this section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means-- (1) the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives; and (2) the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate. sec. 110. operation stonegarden. (a) in general.--subtitle a of title xx of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 601 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section: ``sec. 2010. operation stonegarden. ``(a) establishment.--there is established in the department a program to be known as `operation stonegarden', under which the secretary, acting through the administrator, shall make grants to eligible law enforcement agencies, through state administrative agencies, to enhance border security in accordance with this section. ``(b) eligible recipients.--to be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a law enforcement agency shall-- ``(1) be located in-- ``(a) a state bordering canada or mexico; or ``(b) a state or territory with a maritime border; [[page h2538]] ``(2) be involved in an active, ongoing, u.s. customs and border protection operation coordinated through a u.s. border patrol sector office; and ``(3) have an agreement in place with u.s. immigration and customs enforcement to support enforcement operations. ``(c) permitted uses.--a recipient of a grant under this section may use such grant for costs associated with the following: ``(1) equipment, including maintenance and sustainment. ``(2) personnel, including overtime and backfill, in support of enhanced border law enforcement activities. ``(3) any activity permitted for operation stonegarden under the most recent fiscal year department of homeland security's homeland security grant program notice of funding opportunity. ``(d) period of performance.--the secretary shall award grants under this section to grant recipients for a period of not fewer than 36 months. ``(e) notification.--upon denial of a grant to a law enforcement agency, the administrator shall provide written notice to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate, including the reasoning for such denial. ``(f) report.--for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028 the administrator shall submit to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate a report that contains-- ``(1) information on the expenditure of grants made under this section by each grant recipient; and ``(2) recommendations for other uses of such grants to further support eligible law enforcement agencies. ``(g) authorization of appropriations.--there is authorized to be appropriated $110,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2024 through 2028 for grants under this section.''. (b) conforming amendment.--subsection (a) of section 2002 of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 603) is amended to read as follows: ``(a) grants authorized.--the secretary, through the administrator, may award grants under sections 2003, 2004, 2009, and 2010 to state, local, and tribal governments, as appropriate.''. (c) clerical amendment.--the table of contents in section 1(b) of the homeland security act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2009 the following new item: ``sec. 2010. operation stonegarden.''. sec. 111. air and marine operations flight hours. (a) air and marine operations flight hours.--not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary shall ensure that not fewer than 110,000 annual flight hours are carried out by air and marine operations of cbp. (b) unmanned aircraft systems.--the secretary, after coordination with the administrator of the federal aviation administration, shall ensure that air and marine operations operate unmanned aircraft systems on the southern border of the united states for not less than 24 hours per day. (c) primary missions.--the commissioner shall ensure the following: (1) the primary missions for air and marine operations are to directly support the following: (a) u.s. border patrol activities along the borders of the united states. (b) joint interagency task force south and joint task force east operations in the transit zone. (2) the executive assistant commissioner of air and marine operations assigns the greatest priority to support missions specified in paragraph (1). (d) high demand flight hour requirements.--the commissioner shall-- (1) ensure that u.s. border patrol sector chiefs identify air support mission-critical hours; and (2) direct air and marine operations to support requests from such sector chiefs as a component of the primary mission of air and marine operations in accordance with subsection (c)(1)(a). (e) contract air support authorizations.--the commissioner shall contract for air support mission-critical hours to meet the requests for such hours, as identified pursuant to subsection (d). (f) small unmanned aircraft systems.-- (1) in general.--the chief of the u.s. border patrol shall be the executive agent with respect to the use of small unmanned aircraft by cbp for the purposes of the following: (a) meeting the unmet flight hour operational requirements of the u.s. border patrol. (b) achieving situational awareness and operational control of the borders of the united states. (2) coordination.--in carrying out paragraph (1), the chief of the u.s. border patrol shall coordinate-- (a) flight operations with the administrator of the federal aviation administration to ensure the safe and efficient operation of the national airspace system; and (b) with the executive assistant commissioner for air and marine operations of cbp to-- (i) ensure the safety of other cbp aircraft flying in the vicinity of small unmanned aircraft operated by the u.s. border patrol; and (ii) establish a process to include data from flight hours in the calculation of got away statistics. (3) conforming amendment.--paragraph (3) of section 411(e) of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 211(e)) is amended-- (a) in subparagraph (b), by striking ``and'' after the semicolon at the end; (b) by redesignating subparagraph (c) as subparagraph (d); and (c) by inserting after subparagraph (b) the following new subparagraph: ``(c) carry out the small unmanned aircraft (as such term is defined in section 44801 of title 49, united states code) requirements pursuant to subsection (f) of section 111 of division a of the end the border catastrophe act; and''. (g) savings clause.--nothing in this section may be construed as conferring, transferring, or delegating to the secretary, the commissioner, the executive assistant commissioner for air and marine operations of cbp, or the chief of the u.s. border patrol any authority of the secretary of transportation or the administrator of the federal aviation administration relating to the use of airspace or aviation safety. (h) definitions.--in this section: (1) got away.--the term ``got away'' has the meaning given such term in section 1092(a)(3) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2017 (public law 114-328; 6 u.s.c. 223(a)(3)). (2) transit zone.--the term ``transit zone'' has the meaning given such term in section 1092(a)(8) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2017 (public law 114-328; 6 u.s.c. 223(a)(8)). sec. 112. eradication of carrizo cane and salt cedar. (a) in general.--not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary, in coordination with the heads of relevant federal, state, and local agencies, shall hire contractors to begin eradicating the carrizo cane plant and any salt cedar along the rio grande river that impedes border security operations. such eradication shall be completed-- (1) by not later than september 30, 2028, except for required maintenance; and (2) in the most expeditious and cost-effective manner possible to maintain clear fields of view. (b) application.--the waiver authority under subsection (c) of section 102 of the illegal immigration reform and immigrant responsibility act of 1996 (8 u.s.c. 1103 note), as amended by section 103 of this division, shall apply to activities carried out pursuant to subsection (a). (c) report.--not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary shall submit to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate a strategic plan to eradicate all carrizo cane plant and salt cedar along the rio grande river that impedes border security operations by not later than september 30, 2028. (d) authorization of appropriations.--there is authorized to be appropriated $7,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2025 through 2028 to the secretary to carry out this subsection. sec. 113. border patrol strategic plan. (a) in general.--not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this act and biennially thereafter, the commissioner, acting through the chief of the u.s. border patrol, shall issue a border patrol strategic plan (referred to in this section as the ``plan'') to enhance the security of the borders of the united states. (b) elements.--the plan shall include the following: (1) a consideration of border patrol capability gap analysis reporting, border security improvement plans, and any other strategic document authored by the u.s. border patrol to address security gaps between ports of entry, including efforts to mitigate threats identified in such analyses, plans, and documents. (2) information relating to the dissemination of information relating to border security or border threats with respect to the efforts of the department and other appropriate federal agencies. (3) information relating to efforts by u.s. border patrol to-- (a) increase situational awareness, including-- (i) surveillance capabilities, such as capabilities developed or utilized by the department of defense, and any appropriate technology determined to be excess by the department of defense; and (ii) the use of manned aircraft and unmanned aircraft; (b) detect and prevent terrorists and instruments of terrorism from entering the united states; (c) detect, interdict, and disrupt between ports of entry aliens unlawfully present in the united states; (d) detect, interdict, and disrupt human smuggling, human trafficking, drug trafficking, and other illicit cross-border activity; (e) focus intelligence collection to disrupt transnational criminal organizations outside of the international and maritime borders of the united states; and (f) ensure that any new border security technology can be operationally integrated with existing technologies in use by the department. [[page h2539]] (4) information relating to initiatives of the department with respect to operational coordination, including any relevant task forces of the department. (5) information gathered from the lessons learned by the deployments of the national guard to the southern border of the united states. (6) a description of cooperative agreements relating to information sharing with state, local, tribal, territorial, and other federal law enforcement agencies that have jurisdiction on the borders of the united states. (7) information relating to border security information received from the following: (a) state, local, tribal, territorial, and other federal law enforcement agencies that have jurisdiction on the borders of the united states or in the maritime environment. (b) border community stakeholders, including representatives from the following: (i) border agricultural and ranching organizations. (ii) business and civic organizations. (iii) hospitals and rural clinics within 150 miles of the borders of the united states. (iv) victims of crime committed by aliens unlawfully present in the united states. (v) victims impacted by drugs, transnational criminal organizations, cartels, gangs, or other criminal activity. (vi) farmers, ranchers, and property owners along the border. (vii) other individuals negatively impacted by illegal immigration. (8) information relating to the staffing requirements with respect to border security for the department. (9) a prioritized list of department research and development objectives to enhance the security of the borders of the united states. (10) an assessment of training programs, including such programs relating to the following: (a) identifying and detecting fraudulent documents. (b) understanding the scope of cbp enforcement authorities and appropriate use of force policies. (c) screening, identifying, and addressing vulnerable populations, such as children and victims of human trafficking. sec. 114. u.s. customs and border protection spiritual readiness. not later than one year after the enactment of this act and annually thereafter for five years, the commissioner shall submit to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate a report on the availability and usage of the assistance of chaplains, prayer groups, houses of worship, and other spiritual resources for members of cbp who identify as religiously affiliated and have attempted suicide, have suicidal ideation, or are at risk of suicide, and metrics on the impact such resources have in assisting religiously affiliated members who have access to and utilize such resources compared to religiously affiliated members who do not. sec. 115. restrictions on funding. (a) arriving aliens.--no funds are authorized to be appropriated to the department to process the entry into the united states of aliens arriving in between ports of entry. (b) restriction on nongovernmental organization support for unlawful activity.--no funds are authorized to be appropriated to the department for disbursement to any nongovernmental organization that facilitates or encourages unlawful activity, including unlawful entry, human trafficking, human smuggling, drug trafficking, and drug smuggling. (c) restriction on nongovernmental organization facilitation of illegal immigration.--no funds are authorized to be appropriated to the department for disbursement to any nongovernmental organization to provide, or facilitate the provision of, transportation, lodging, or immigration legal services to inadmissible aliens who enter the united states after the date of the enactment of this act. sec. 116. collection of dna and biometric information at the border. not later than 14 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary shall ensure and certify to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate that cbp is fully compliant with federal dna and biometric collection requirements at united states land borders. sec. 117. eradication of narcotic drugs and formulating effective new tools to address yearly losses of life; ensuring timely updates to u.s. customs and border protection field manuals. (a) in general.--not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act, and not less frequently than triennially thereafter, the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection shall review and update, as necessary, the current policies and manuals of the office of field operations related to inspections at ports of entry, and the u.s. border patrol related to inspections between ports of entry, to ensure the uniform implementation of inspection practices that will effectively respond to technological and methodological changes designed to disguise unlawful activity, such as the smuggling of drugs and humans, along the border. (b) reporting requirement.--not later than 90 days after each update required under subsection (a), the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection shall submit to the committee on homeland security and the committee on the judiciary of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs and the committee on the judiciary of the senate a report that summarizes any policy and manual changes pursuant to subsection (a). sec. 118. publication by u.s. customs and border protection of operational statistics. (a) in general.--not later than the seventh day of each month beginning with the second full month after the date of the enactment of this act, the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection shall publish on a publicly available website of the department of homeland security information relating to the total number of alien encounters and nationalities, unique alien encounters and nationalities, gang affiliated apprehensions and nationalities, drug seizures, alien encounters included in the terrorist screening database and nationalities, arrests of criminal aliens or individuals wanted by law enforcement and nationalities, known got aways, encounters with deceased aliens, and all other related or associated statistics recorded by u.s. customs and border protection during the immediately preceding month. each such publication shall include the following: (1) the aggregate such number, and such number disaggregated by geographic regions, of such recordings and encounters, including specifications relating to whether such recordings and encounters were at the southwest, northern, or maritime border. (2) an identification of the office of field operations field office, u.s. border patrol sector, or air and marine operations branch making each recording or encounter. (3) information relating to whether each recording or encounter of an alien was of a single adult, an unaccompanied alien child, or an individual in a family unit. (4) information relating to the processing disposition of each alien recording or encounter. (5) information relating to the nationality of each alien who is the subject of each recording or encounter. (6) the total number of individuals included in the terrorist screening database (as such term is defined in section 2101 of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 621)) who have repeatedly attempted to cross unlawfully into the united states. (7) the total number of individuals included in the terrorist screening database who have been apprehended, including information relating to whether such individuals were released into the united states or removed. (b) exceptions.--if the commissioner of u.s. customs and border protection in any month does not publish the information required under subsection (a), or does not publish such information by the date specified in such subsection, the commissioner shall brief the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate regarding the reason relating thereto, as the case may be, by not later than the date that is two business days after the tenth day of such month. (c) definitions.--in this section: (1) alien encounters.--the term ``alien encounters'' means aliens apprehended, determined inadmissible, or processed for removal by u.s. customs and border protection. (2) got away.--the term ``got away'' has the meaning given such term in section 1092(a) of the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2017 (6 u.s.c. 223(a)). (3) terrorist screening database.--the term ``terrorist screening database'' has the meaning given such term in section 2101 of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 621). (4) unaccompanied alien child.--the term ``unaccompanied alien child'' has the meaning given such term in section 462(g) of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 279(g)). sec. 119. alien criminal background checks. (a) in general.--not later than seven days after the date of the enactment of this act, the commissioner shall certify to the committee on homeland security and the committee on the judiciary of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs and the committee on the judiciary of the senate that cbp has real-time access to the criminal history databases of all countries of origin and transit for aliens encountered by cbp to perform criminal history background checks for such aliens. (b) standards.--the certification required under subsection (a) shall also include a determination whether the criminal history databases of a country are accurate, up to date, digitized, searchable, and otherwise meet the standards of the federal bureau of investigation for criminal history databases maintained by state and local governments. (c) certification.--the secretary shall annually submit to the committee on homeland security and the committee on the judiciary of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs and the committee on the judiciary of the senate a certification that each database referred to in subsection (b) which the secretary accessed or sought [[page h2540]] to access pursuant to this section met the standards described in subsection (b). sec. 120. prohibited identification documents at airport security checkpoints; notification to immigration agencies. (a) in general.--the administrator may not accept as valid proof of identification a prohibited identification document at an airport security checkpoint. (b) notification to immigration agencies.--if an individual presents a prohibited identification document to an officer of the transportation security administration at an airport security checkpoint, the administrator shall promptly notify the director of u.s. immigration and customs enforcement, the director of u.s. customs and border protection, and the head of the appropriate local law enforcement agency to determine whether the individual is in violation of any term of release from the custody of any such agency. (c) entry into sterile areas.-- (1) in general.--except as provided in paragraph (2), if an individual is found to be in violation of any term of release under subsection (b), the administrator may not permit such individual to enter a sterile area. (2) exception.--an individual presenting a prohibited identification document under this section may enter a sterile area if the individual-- (a) is leaving the united states for the purposes of removal or deportation; or (b) presents a covered identification document. (d) collection of biometric information from certain individuals seeking entry into the sterile area of an airport.--beginning not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the administrator shall collect biometric information from an individual described in subsection (e) prior to authorizing such individual to enter into a sterile area. (e) individual described.--an individual described in this subsection is an individual who-- (1) is seeking entry into the sterile area of an airport; (2) does not present a covered identification document; and (3) the administrator cannot verify is a national of the united states. (f) participation in ident.--beginning not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the administrator, in coordination with the secretary, shall submit biometric data collected under this section to the automated biometric identification system (ident). (g) definitions.--in this section: (1) administrator.--the term ``administrator'' means the administrator of the transportation security administration. (2) biometric information.--the term ``biometric information'' means any of the following: (a) a fingerprint. (b) a palm print. (c) a photograph, including-- (i) a photograph of an individual's face for use with facial recognition technology; and (ii) a photograph of any physical or anatomical feature, such as a scar, skin mark, or tattoo. (d) a signature. (e) a voice print. (f) an iris image. (3) covered identification document.--the term ``covered identification document'' means any of the following, if the document is valid and unexpired: (a) a united states passport or passport card. (b) a biometrically secure card issued by a trusted traveler program of the department of homeland security, including-- (i) global entry; (ii) nexus; (iii) secure electronic network for travelers rapid inspection (sentri); and (iv) free and secure trade (fast). (c) an identification card issued by the department of defense, including such a card issued to a dependent. (d) any document required for admission to the united states under section 211(a) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1181(a)). (e) an enhanced driver's license issued by a state. (f) a photo identification card issued by a federally recognized indian tribe. (g) a personal identity verification credential issued in accordance with homeland security presidential directive 12. (h) a driver's license issued by a province of canada. (i) a secure certificate of indian status issued by the government of canada. (j) a transportation worker identification credential. (k) a merchant mariner credential issued by the coast guard. (l) a veteran health identification card issued by the department of veterans affairs. (m) any other document the administrator determines, pursuant to a rule making in accordance with section 553 of title 5, united states code, will satisfy the identity verification procedures of the transportation security administration. (4) immigration laws.--the term ``immigration laws'' has the meaning given that term in section 101 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1101). (5) prohibited identification document.--the term ``prohibited identification document'' means any of the following (or any applicable successor form): (a) u.s. immigration and customs enforcement form i-200, warrant for arrest of alien. (b) u.s. immigration and customs enforcement form i-205, warrant of removal/deportation. (c) u.s. immigration and customs enforcement form i-220a, order of release on recognizance. (d) u.s. immigration and customs enforcement form i-220b, order of supervision. (e) department of homeland security form i-862, notice to appear. (f) u.s. customs and border protection form i-94, arrival/ departure record (including a print-out of an electronic record). (g) department of homeland security form i-385, notice to report. (h) any document that directs an individual to report to the department of homeland security. (i) any department of homeland security work authorization or employment verification document. (6) sterile area.--the term ``sterile area'' has the meaning given that term in section 1540.5 of title 49, code of federal regulations, or any successor regulation. sec. 121. prohibition against any covid-19 vaccine mandate or adverse action against dhs employees. (a) limitation on imposition of new mandate.--the secretary may not issue any covid-19 vaccine mandate unless congress expressly authorizes such a mandate. (b) prohibition on adverse action.--the secretary may not take any adverse action against a department employee based solely on the refusal of such employee to receive a vaccine for covid-19. (c) report.--not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary shall report to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate on the following: (1) the number of department employees who were terminated or resigned due to the covid-19 vaccine mandate. (2) an estimate of the cost to reinstate such employees. (3) how the department would effectuate reinstatement of such employees. (d) retention and development of unvaccinated employees.-- the secretary shall make every effort to retain department employees who are not vaccinated against covid-19 and provide such employees with professional development, promotion and leadership opportunities, and consideration equal to that of their peers. sec. 122. cbp one app limitation. (a) limitation.--the department may use the cbp one mobile application or any other similar program, application, internet-based portal, website, device, or initiative only for inspection of perishable cargo. (b) report.--not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the commissioner shall report to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate the date on which cbp began using cbp one to allow aliens to schedule interviews at land ports of entry, how many aliens have scheduled interviews at land ports of entry using cbp one, the nationalities of such aliens, and the stated final destinations of such aliens within the united states, if any. sec. 123. report on mexican drug cartels. not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this act, congress shall commission a report that contains the following: (1) a national strategy to address mexican drug cartels, and a determination regarding whether there should be a designation established to address such cartels. (2) information relating to actions by such cartels that causes harm to the united states. sec. 124. gao study on costs incurred by states to secure the southwest border. (a) in general.--not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the comptroller general of the united states shall conduct a study to examine the costs incurred by individual states as a result of actions taken by such states in support of the federal mission to secure the southwest border, and the feasibility of a program to reimburse such states for such costs. (b) contents.--the study required under subsection (a) shall include consideration of the following: (1) actions taken by the department of homeland security that have contributed to costs described in such subsection incurred by states to secure the border in the absence of federal action, including the termination of the migrant protection protocols and cancellation of border wall construction. (2) actions taken by individual states along the southwest border to secure their borders, and the costs associated with such actions. (3) the feasibility of a program within the department of homeland security to reimburse states for the costs incurred in support of the federal mission to secure the southwest border. sec. 125. report by inspector general of the department of homeland security. (a) report.--not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this act and annually thereafter for five years, the inspector general of the department of homeland [[page h2541]] security shall submit to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate a report examining the economic and security impact of mass migration to municipalities and states along the southwest border. such report shall include information regarding costs incurred by the following: (1) state and local law enforcement to secure the southwest border. (2) public school districts to educate students who are aliens unlawfully present in the united states. (3) healthcare providers to provide care to aliens unlawfully present in the united states who have not paid for such care. (4) farmers and ranchers due to migration impacts to their properties. (b) consultation.--to produce the report required under subsection (a), the inspector general of the department of homeland security shall consult with the individuals and representatives of the entities described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of such subsection. sec. 126. offsetting authorizations of appropriations. (a) office of the secretary and emergency management.--no funds are authorized to be appropriated for the alternatives to detention case management pilot program or the office of the immigration detention ombudsman for the office of the secretary and emergency management of the department of homeland security. (b) management directorate.--no funds are authorized to be appropriated for electric vehicles or st. elizabeths campus construction for the management directorate of the department of homeland security. (c) intelligence, analysis, and situational awareness.-- there is authorized to be appropriated $216,000,000 for intelligence, analysis, and situational awareness of the department of homeland security. (d) u.s. customs and border protection.--no funds are authorized to be appropriated for the shelter services program for u.s. customs and border protection. sec. 127. report to congress on foreign terrorist organizations. (a) in general.--not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act and annually thereafter for five years, the secretary of homeland security shall submit to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate an assessment of foreign terrorist organizations attempting to move their members or affiliates into the united states through the southern, northern, or maritime border. (b) definition.--in this section, the term ``foreign terrorist organization'' means an organization described in section 219 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1189). sec. 128. assessment by inspector general of the department of homeland security on the mitigation of unmanned aircraft systems at the southwest border. not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the inspector general of the department of homeland security shall submit to the committee on homeland security of the house of representatives and the committee on homeland security and governmental affairs of the senate an assessment of u.s. customs and border protection's ability to mitigate unmanned aircraft systems at the southwest border. such assessment shall include information regarding any intervention between january 1, 2021, and the date of the enactment of this act, by any federal agency affecting in any manner u.s. customs and border protection's authority to so mitigate such systems. division b--immigration enforcement and foreign affairs title i--asylum reform and border protection sec. 101. safe third country. section 208(a)(2)(a) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1158(a)(2)(a)) is amended-- (1) by striking ``if the attorney general determines'' and inserting ``if the attorney general or the secretary of homeland security determines--''; (2) by striking ``that the alien may be removed'' and inserting the following: ``(i) that the alien may be removed''; (3) by striking ``, pursuant to a bilateral or multilateral agreement, to'' and inserting ``to''; (4) by inserting ``or the secretary, on a case by case basis,'' before ``finds that''; (5) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; or''; and (6) by adding at the end the following: ``(ii) that the alien entered, attempted to enter, or arrived in the united states after transiting through at least one country outside the alien's country of citizenship, nationality, or last lawful habitual residence en route to the united states, unless-- ``(i) the alien demonstrates that he or she applied for protection from persecution or torture in at least one country outside the alien's country of citizenship, nationality, or last lawful habitual residence through which the alien transited en route to the united states, and the alien received a final judgment denying the alien protection in each country; ``(ii) the alien demonstrates that he or she was a victim of a severe form of trafficking in which a commercial sex act was induced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which the person induced to perform such act was under the age of 18 years; or in which the trafficking included the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision, or obtaining of a person for labor or services through the use of force, fraud, or coercion for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage, or slavery, and was unable to apply for protection from persecution in each country through which the alien transited en route to the united states as a result of such severe form of trafficking; or ``(iii) the only countries through which the alien transited en route to the united states were, at the time of the transit, not parties to the 1951 united nations convention relating to the status of refugees, the 1967 protocol relating to the status of refugees, or the united nations convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.''. sec. 102. credible fear interviews. section 235(b)(1)(b)(v) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1225(b)(1)(b)(v)) is amended by striking ``there is a significant possibility'' and all that follows, and inserting ``, taking into account the credibility of the statements made by the alien in support of the alien's claim, as determined pursuant to section 208(b)(1)(b)(iii), and such other facts as are known to the officer, the alien more likely than not could establish eligibility for asylum under section 208, and it is more likely than not that the statements made by, and on behalf of, the alien in support of the alien's claim are true.''. sec. 103. clarification of asylum eligibility. (a) in general.--section 208(b)(1)(a) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1158(b)(1)(a)) is amended by inserting after ``section 101(a)(42)(a)'' the following: ``(in accordance with the rules set forth in this section), and is eligible to apply for asylum under subsection (a)''. (b) place of arrival.--section 208(a)(1) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1158(a)(1)) is amended-- (1) by striking ``or who arrives in the united states (whether or not at a designated port of arrival and including an alien who is brought to the united states after having been interdicted in international or united states waters),''; and (2) by inserting after ``united states'' the following: ``and has arrived in the united states at a port of entry (including an alien who is brought to the united states after having been interdicted in international or united states waters),''. sec. 104. exceptions. paragraph (2) of section 208(b) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1158(b)(2)) is amended to read as follows: ``(2) exceptions.-- ``(a) in general.--paragraph (1) shall not apply to an alien if the secretary of homeland security or the attorney general determines that-- ``(i) the alien ordered, incited, assisted, or otherwise participated in the persecution of any person on account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion; ``(ii) the alien has been convicted of any felony under federal, state, tribal, or local law; ``(iii) the alien has been convicted of any misdemeanor offense under federal, state, tribal, or local law involving-- ``(i) the unlawful possession or use of an identification document, authentication feature, or false identification document (as those terms and phrases are defined in the jurisdiction where the conviction occurred), unless the alien can establish that the conviction resulted from circumstances showing that-- ``(aa) the document or feature was presented before boarding a common carrier; ``(bb) the document or feature related to the alien's eligibility to enter the united states; ``(cc) the alien used the document or feature to depart a country wherein the alien has claimed a fear of persecution; and ``(dd) the alien claimed a fear of persecution without delay upon presenting himself or herself to an immigration officer upon arrival at a united states port of entry; ``(ii) the unlawful receipt of a federal public benefit (as defined in section 401(c) of the personal responsibility and work opportunity reconciliation act of 1996 (8 u.s.c. 1611(c))), from a federal entity, or the unlawful receipt of similar public benefits from a state, tribal, or local entity; or ``(iii) possession or trafficking of a controlled substance or controlled substance paraphernalia, as those phrases are defined under the law of the jurisdiction where the conviction occurred, other than a single offense involving possession for one's own use of 30 grams or less of marijuana (as marijuana is defined under the law of the jurisdiction where the conviction occurred); ``(iv) the alien has been convicted of an offense arising under paragraph (1)(a) or (2) of section 274(a), or under section 276; ``(v) the alien has been convicted of a federal, state, tribal, or local crime that the attorney general or secretary of homeland security knows, or has reason to believe, was committed in support, promotion, or furtherance of the activity of a criminal street gang (as defined under the law of the jurisdiction where the conviction occurred or in section 521(a) of title 18, united states code); [[page h2542]] ``(vi) the alien has been convicted of an offense for driving while intoxicated or impaired, as those terms are defined under the law of the jurisdiction where the conviction occurred (including a conviction for driving while under the influence of or impaired by alcohol or drugs), without regard to whether the conviction is classified as a misdemeanor or felony under federal, state, tribal, or local law, in which such intoxicated or impaired driving was a cause of serious bodily injury or death of another person; ``(vii) the alien has been convicted of more than one offense for driving while intoxicated or impaired, as those terms are defined under the law of the jurisdiction where the conviction occurred (including a conviction for driving while under the influence of or impaired by alcohol or drugs), without regard to whether the conviction is classified as a misdemeanor or felony under federal, state, tribal, or local law; ``(viii) the alien has been convicted of a crime-- ``(i) that involves conduct amounting to a crime of stalking; ``(ii) of child abuse, child neglect, or child abandonment; or ``(iii) that involves conduct amounting to a domestic assault or battery offense, including-- ``(aa) a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence, as described in section 921(a)(33) of title 18, united states code; ``(bb) a crime of domestic violence, as described in section 40002(a)(12) of the violence against women act of 1994 (34 u.s.c. 12291(a)(12)); or ``(cc) any crime based on conduct in which the alien harassed, coerced, intimidated, voluntarily or recklessly used (or threatened to use) force or violence against, or inflicted physical injury or physical pain, however slight, upon a person-- ``(aa) who is a current or former spouse of the alien; ``(bb) with whom the alien shares a child; ``(cc) who is cohabitating with, or who has cohabitated with, the alien as a spouse; ``(dd) who is similarly situated to a spouse of the alien under the domestic or family violence laws of the jurisdiction where the offense occurred; or ``(ee) who is protected from that alien's acts under the domestic or family violence laws of the united states or of any state, tribal government, or unit of local government; ``(ix) the alien has engaged in acts of battery or extreme cruelty upon a person and the person-- ``(i) is a current or former spouse of the alien; ``(ii) shares a child with the alien; ``(iii) cohabitates or has cohabitated with the alien as a spouse; ``(iv) is similarly situated to a spouse of the alien under the domestic or family violence laws of the jurisdiction where the offense occurred; or ``(v) is protected from that alien's acts under the domestic or family violence laws of the united states or of any state, tribal government, or unit of local government; ``(x) the alien, having been convicted by a final judgment of a particularly serious crime, constitutes a danger to the community of the united states; ``(xi) there are serious reasons for believing that the alien has committed a serious nonpolitical crime outside the united states prior to the arrival of the alien in the united states; ``(xii) there are reasonable grounds for regarding the alien as a danger to the security of the united states; ``(xiii) the alien is described in subclause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (vi) of section 212(a)(3)(b)(i) or section 237(a)(4)(b) (relating to terrorist activity), unless, in the case only of an alien inadmissible under subclause (iv) of section 212(a)(3)(b)(i), the secretary of homeland security or the attorney general determines, in the secretary's or the attorney general's discretion, that there are not reasonable grounds for regarding the alien as a danger to the security of the united states; ``(xiv) the alien was firmly resettled in another country prior to arriving in the united states; or ``(xv) there are reasonable grounds for concluding the alien could avoid persecution by relocating to another part of the alien's country of nationality or, in the case of an alien having no nationality, another part of the alien's country of last habitual residence. ``(b) special rules.-- ``(i) particularly serious crime; serious nonpolitical crime outside the united states.-- ``(i) in general.--for purposes of subparagraph (a)(x), the attorney general or secretary of homeland security, in their discretion, may determine that a conviction constitutes a particularly serious crime based on-- ``(aa) the nature of the conviction; ``(bb) the type of sentence imposed; or ``(cc) the circumstances and underlying facts of the conviction. ``(ii) determination.--in making a determination under subclause (i), the attorney general or secretary of homeland security may consider all reliable information and is not limited to facts found by the criminal court or provided in the underlying record of conviction. ``(iii) treatment of felonies.--in making a determination under subclause (i), an alien who has been convicted of a felony (as defined under this section) or an aggravated felony (as defined under section 101(a)(43)), shall be considered to have been convicted of a particularly serious crime. ``(iv) interpol red notice.--in making a determination under subparagraph (a)(xi), an interpol red notice may constitute reliable evidence that the alien has committed a serious nonpolitical crime outside the united states. ``(ii) crimes and exceptions.-- ``(i) driving while intoxicated or impaired.--a finding under subparagraph (a)(vi) does not require the attorney general or secretary of homeland security to find the first conviction for driving while intoxicated or impaired (including a conviction for driving while under the influence of or impaired by alcohol or drugs) as a predicate offense. the attorney general or secretary of homeland security need only make a factual determination that the alien previously was convicted for driving while intoxicated or impaired as those terms are defined under the jurisdiction where the conviction occurred (including a conviction for driving while under the influence of or impaired by alcohol or drugs). ``(ii) stalking and other crimes.--in making a determination under subparagraph (a)(viii), including determining the existence of a domestic relationship between the alien and the victim, the underlying conduct of the crime may be considered, and the attorney general or secretary of homeland security is not limited to facts found by the criminal court or provided in the underlying record of conviction. ``(iii) battery or extreme cruelty.--in making a determination under subparagraph (a)(ix), the phrase `battery or extreme cruelty' includes-- ``(aa) any act or threatened act of violence, including any forceful detention, which results or threatens to result in physical or mental injury; ``(bb) psychological or sexual abuse or exploitation, including rape, molestation, incest, or forced prostitution, shall be considered acts of violence; and ``(cc) other abusive acts, including acts that, in and of themselves, may not initially appear violent, but that are a part of an overall pattern of violence. ``(iv) exception for victims of domestic violence.--an alien who was convicted of an offense described in clause (viii) or (ix) of subparagraph (a) is not ineligible for asylum on that basis if the alien satisfies the criteria under section 237(a)(7)(a). ``(c) specific circumstances.--paragraph (1) shall not apply to an alien whose claim is based on-- ``(i) personal animus or retribution, including personal animus in which the alleged persecutor has not targeted, or manifested an animus against, other members of an alleged particular social group in addition to the member who has raised the claim at issue; ``(ii) the applicant's generalized disapproval of, disagreement with, or opposition to criminal, terrorist, gang, guerilla, or other non-state organizations absent expressive behavior in furtherance of a discrete cause against such organizations related to control of a state or expressive behavior that is antithetical to the state or a legal unit of the state; ``(iii) the applicant's resistance to recruitment or coercion by guerrilla, criminal, gang, terrorist, or other non-state organizations; ``(iv) the targeting of the applicant for criminal activity for financial gain based on wealth or affluence or perceptions of wealth or affluence; ``(v) the applicant's criminal activity; or ``(vi) the applicant's perceived, past or present, gang affiliation. ``(d) definitions and clarifications.-- ``(i) definitions.--for purposes of this paragraph: ``(i) felony.--the term `felony' means-- ``(aa) any crime defined as a felony by the relevant jurisdiction (federal, state, tribal, or local) of conviction; or ``(bb) any crime punishable by more than one year of imprisonment. ``(ii) misdemeanor.--the term `misdemeanor' means-- ``(aa) any crime defined as a misdemeanor by the relevant jurisdiction (federal, state, tribal, or local) of conviction; or ``(bb) any crime not punishable by more than one year of imprisonment. ``(ii) clarifications.-- ``(i) construction.--for purposes of this paragraph, whether any activity or conviction also may constitute a basis for removal is immaterial to a determination of asylum eligibility. ``(ii) attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation.--for purposes of this paragraph, all references to a criminal offense or criminal conviction shall be deemed to include any attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit the offense or any other inchoate form of the offense. ``(iii) effect of certain orders.-- ``(aa) in general.--no order vacating a conviction, modifying a sentence, clarifying a sentence, or otherwise altering a conviction or sentence shall have any effect under this paragraph unless the attorney general or secretary of homeland security determines that-- ``(aa) the court issuing the order had jurisdiction and authority to do so; and [[page h2543]] ``(bb) the order was not entered for rehabilitative purposes or for purposes of ameliorating the immigration consequences of the conviction or sentence. ``(bb) ameliorating immigration consequences.--for purposes of item (aa)(bb), the order shall be presumed to be for the purpose of ameliorating immigration consequences if-- ``(aa) the order was entered after the initiation of any proceeding to remove the alien from the united states; or ``(bb) the alien moved for the order more than one year after the date of the original order of conviction or sentencing, whichever is later. ``(cc) authority of immigration judge.--an immigration judge is not limited to consideration only of material included in any order vacating a conviction, modifying a sentence, or clarifying a sentence to determine whether such order should be given any effect under this paragraph, but may consider such additional information as the immigration judge determines appropriate. ``(e) additional limitations.--the secretary of homeland security or the attorney general may by regulation establish additional limitations and conditions, consistent with this section, under which an alien shall be ineligible for asylum under paragraph (1). ``(f) no judicial review.--there shall be no judicial review of a determination of the secretary of homeland security or the attorney general under subparagraph (a)(xiii).''. sec. 105. employment authorization. paragraph (2) of section 208(d) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1158(d)) is amended to read as follows: ``(2) employment authorization.-- ``(a) authorization permitted.--an applicant for asylum is not entitled to employment authorization, but such authorization may be provided under regulation by the secretary of homeland security. an applicant who is not otherwise eligible for employment authorization shall not be granted such authorization prior to the date that is 180 days after the date of filing of the application for asylum. ``(b) termination.--each grant of employment authorization under subparagraph (a), and any renewal or extension thereof, shall be valid for a period of 6 months, except that such authorization, renewal, or extension shall terminate prior to the end of such 6 month period as follows: ``(i) immediately following the denial of an asylum application by an asylum officer, unless the case is referred to an immigration judge. ``(ii) 30 days after the date on which an immigration judge denies an asylum application, unless the alien timely appeals to the board of immigration appeals. ``(iii) immediately following the denial by the board of immigration appeals of an appeal of a denial of an asylum application. ``(c) renewal.--the secretary of homeland security may not grant, renew, or extend employment authorization to an alien if the alien was previously granted employment authorization under subparagraph (a), and the employment authorization was terminated pursuant to a circumstance described in subparagraph (b)(i), (ii), or (iii), unless a federal court of appeals remands the alien's case to the board of immigration appeals. ``(d) ineligibility.--the secretary of homeland security may not grant employment authorization to an alien under this paragraph if the alien-- ``(i) is ineligible for asylum under subsection (b)(2)(a); or ``(ii) entered or attempted to enter the united states at a place and time other than lawfully through a united states port of entry.''. sec. 106. asylum fees. paragraph (3) of section 208(d) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1158(d)) is amended to read as follows: ``(3) fees.-- ``(a) application fee.--a fee of not less than $50 for each application for asylum shall be imposed. such fee shall not exceed the cost of adjudicating the application. such fee shall not apply to an unaccompanied alien child who files an asylum application in proceedings under section 240. ``(b) employment authorization.--a fee may also be imposed for the consideration of an application for employment authorization under this section and for adjustment of status under section 209(b). such a fee shall not exceed the cost of adjudicating the application. ``(c) payment.--fees under this paragraph may be assessed and paid over a period of time or by installments. ``(d) rule of construction.--nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to limit the authority of the attorney general or secretary of homeland security to set adjudication and naturalization fees in accordance with section 286(m).''. sec. 107. rules for determining asylum eligibility. section 208 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1158) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(f) rules for determining asylum eligibility.--in making a determination under subsection (b)(1)(a) with respect to whether an alien is a refugee within the meaning of section 101(a)(42)(a), the following shall apply: ``(1) particular social group.--the secretary of homeland security or the attorney general shall not determine that an alien is a member of a particular social group unless the alien articulates on the record, or provides a basis on the record for determining, the definition and boundaries of the alleged particular social group, establishes that the particular social group exists independently from the alleged persecution, and establishes that the alien's claim of membership in a particular social group does not involve-- ``(a) past or present criminal activity or association (including gang membership); ``(b) presence in a country with generalized violence or a high crime rate; ``(c) being the subject of a recruitment effort by criminal, terrorist, or persecutory groups; ``(d) the targeting of the applicant for criminal activity for financial gain based on perceptions of wealth or affluence; ``(e) interpersonal disputes of which governmental authorities in the relevant society or region were unaware or uninvolved; ``(f) private criminal acts of which governmental authorities in the relevant society or region were unaware or uninvolved; ``(g) past or present terrorist activity or association; ``(h) past or present persecutory activity or association; or ``(i) status as an alien returning from the united states. ``(2) political opinion.--the secretary of homeland security or the attorney general may not determine that an alien holds a political opinion with respect to which the alien is subject to persecution if the political opinion is constituted solely by generalized disapproval of, disagreement with, or opposition to criminal, terrorist, gang, guerilla, or other non-state organizations and does not include expressive behavior in furtherance of a cause against such organizations related to efforts by the state to control such organizations or behavior that is antithetical to or otherwise opposes the ruling legal entity of the state or a unit thereof. ``(3) persecution.--the secretary of homeland security or the attorney general may not determine that an alien has been subject to persecution or has a well-founded fear of persecution based only on-- ``(a) the existence of laws or government policies that are unenforced or infrequently enforced, unless there is credible evidence that such a law or policy has been or would be applied to the applicant personally; or ``(b) the conduct of rogue foreign government officials acting outside the scope of their official capacity. ``(4) discretionary determination.-- ``(a) adverse discretionary factors.--the secretary of homeland security or the attorney general may only grant asylum to an alien if the alien establishes that he or she warrants a favorable exercise of discretion. in making such a determination, the attorney general or secretary of homeland security shall consider, if applicable, an alien's use of fraudulent documents to enter the united states, unless the alien arrived in the united states by air, sea, or land directly from the applicant's home country without transiting through any other country. ``(b) favorable exercise of discretion not permitted.-- except as provided in subparagraph (c), the attorney general or secretary of homeland security shall not favorably exercise discretion under this section for any alien who-- ``(i) has accrued more than one year of unlawful presence in the united states, as defined in sections 212(a)(9)(b)(ii) and (iii), prior to filing an application for asylum; ``(ii) at the time the asylum application is filed with the immigration court or is referred from the department of homeland security, has-- ``(i) failed to timely file (or timely file a request for an extension of time to file) any required federal, state, or local income tax returns; ``(ii) failed to satisfy any outstanding federal, state, or local tax obligations; or ``(iii) income that would result in tax liability under section 1 of the internal revenue code of 1986 and that was not reported to the internal revenue service; ``(iii) has had two or more prior asylum applications denied for any reason; ``(iv) has withdrawn a prior asylum application with prejudice or been found to have abandoned a prior asylum application; ``(v) failed to attend an interview regarding his or her asylum application with the department of homeland security, unless the alien shows by a preponderance of the evidence that-- ``(i) exceptional circumstances prevented the alien from attending the interview; or ``(ii) the interview notice was not mailed to the last address provided by the alien or the alien's representative and neither the alien nor the alien's representative received notice of the interview; or ``(vi) was subject to a final order of removal, deportation, or exclusion and did not file a motion to reopen to seek asylum based on changed country conditions within one year of the change in country conditions. ``(c) exceptions.--if one or more of the adverse discretionary factors set forth in subparagraph (b) are present, the attorney general or the secretary, may, notwithstanding such subparagraph (b), favorably exercise discretion under section 208-- ``(i) in extraordinary circumstances, such as those involving national security or foreign policy considerations; or ``(ii) if the alien, by clear and convincing evidence, demonstrates that the denial of the [[page h2544]] application for asylum would result in exceptional and extremely unusual hardship to the alien. ``(5) limitation.--if the secretary or the attorney general determines that an alien fails to satisfy the requirement under paragraph (1), the alien may not be granted asylum based on membership in a particular social group, and may not appeal the determination of the secretary or attorney general, as applicable. a determination under this paragraph shall not serve as the basis for any motion to reopen or reconsider an application for asylum or withholding of removal for any reason, including a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, unless the alien complies with the procedural requirements for such a motion and demonstrates that counsel's failure to define, or provide a basis for defining, a formulation of a particular social group was both not a strategic choice and constituted egregious conduct. ``(6) stereotypes.--evidence offered in support of an application for asylum that promotes cultural stereotypes about a country, its inhabitants, or an alleged persecutor, including stereotypes based on race, religion, nationality, or gender, shall not be admissible in adjudicating that application, except that evidence that an alleged persecutor holds stereotypical views of the applicant shall be admissible. ``(7) definitions.--in this section: ``(a) the term `membership in a particular social group' means membership in a group that is-- ``(i) composed of members who share a common immutable characteristic; ``(ii) defined with particularity; and ``(iii) socially distinct within the society in question. ``(b) the term `political opinion' means an ideal or conviction in support of the furtherance of a discrete cause related to political control of a state or a unit thereof. ``(c) the term `persecution' means the infliction of a severe level of harm constituting an exigent threat by the government of a country or by persons or an organization that the government was unable or unwilling to control. such term does not include-- ``(i) generalized harm or violence that arises out of civil, criminal, or military strife in a country; ``(ii) all treatment that the united states regards as unfair, offensive, unjust, unlawful, or unconstitutional; ``(iii) intermittent harassment, including brief detentions; ``(iv) threats with no actual effort to carry out the threats, except that particularized threats of severe harm of an immediate and menacing nature made by an identified entity may constitute persecution; or ``(v) non-severe economic harm or property damage.''. sec. 108. firm resettlement. section 208 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1158), as amended by this title, is further amended by adding at the end the following: ``(g) firm resettlement.--in determining whether an alien was firmly resettled in another country prior to arriving in the united states under subsection (b)(2)(a)(xiv), the following shall apply: ``(1) in general.--an alien shall be considered to have firmly resettled in another country if, after the events giving rise to the alien's asylum claim-- ``(a) the alien resided in a country through which the alien transited prior to arriving in or entering the united states and-- ``(i) received or was eligible for any permanent legal immigration status in that country; ``(ii) resided in such a country with any non-permanent but indefinitely renewable legal immigration status (including asylee, refugee, or similar status, but excluding status of a tourist); or ``(iii) resided in such a country and could have applied for and obtained an immigration status described in clause (ii); ``(b) the alien physically resided voluntarily, and without continuing to suffer persecution or torture, in any one country for one year or more after departing his country of nationality or last habitual residence and prior to arrival in or entry into the united states, except for any time spent in mexico by an alien who is not a native or citizen of mexico solely as a direct result of being returned to mexico pursuant to section 235(b)(3) or of being subject to metering; or ``(c) the alien is a citizen of a country other than the country in which the alien alleges a fear of persecution, or was a citizen of such a country in the case of an alien who renounces such citizenship, and the alien was present in that country after departing his country of nationality or last habitual residence and prior to arrival in or entry into the united states. ``(2) burden of proof.--if an immigration judge determines that an alien has firmly resettled in another country under paragraph (1), the alien shall bear the burden of proving the bar does not apply. ``(3) firm resettlement of parent.--an alien shall be presumed to have been firmly resettled in another country if the alien's parent was firmly resettled in another country, the parent's resettlement occurred before the alien turned 18 years of age, and the alien resided with such parent at the time of the firm resettlement, unless the alien establishes that he or she could not have derived any permanent legal immigration status or any non-permanent but indefinitely renewable legal immigration status (including asylum, refugee, or similar status, but excluding status of a tourist) from the alien's parent.''. sec. 109. notice concerning frivolous asylum applications. (a) in general.--section 208(d)(4) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1158(d)(4)) is amended-- (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by inserting ``the secretary of homeland security or'' before ``the attorney general''; (2) in subparagraph (a), by striking ``and of the consequences, under paragraph (6), of knowingly filing a frivolous application for asylum; and'' and inserting a semicolon; (3) in subparagraph (b), by striking the period and inserting ``; and''; and (4) by adding at the end the following: ``(c) ensure that a written warning appears on the asylum application advising the alien of the consequences of filing a frivolous application and serving as notice to the alien of the consequence of filing a frivolous application.''. (b) conforming amendment.--section 208(d)(6) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1158(d)(6)) is amended by striking ``if the'' and all that follows and inserting: ``(a) in general.--if the secretary of homeland security or the attorney general determines that an alien has knowingly made a frivolous application for asylum and the alien has received the notice under paragraph (4)(c), the alien shall be permanently ineligible for any benefits under this chapter, effective as the date of the final determination of such an application. ``(b) criteria.--an application is frivolous if the secretary of homeland security or the attorney general determines, consistent with subparagraph (c), that-- ``(i) it is so insufficient in substance that it is clear that the applicant knowingly filed the application solely or in part to delay removal from the united states, to seek employment authorization as an applicant for asylum pursuant to regulations issued pursuant to paragraph (2), or to seek issuance of a notice to appear in order to pursue cancellation of removal under section 240a(b); or ``(ii) any of the material elements are knowingly fabricated. ``(c) sufficient opportunity to clarify.--in determining that an application is frivolous, the secretary or the attorney general, must be satisfied that the applicant, during the course of the proceedings, has had sufficient opportunity to clarify any discrepancies or implausible aspects of the claim. ``(d) withholding of removal not precluded.--for purposes of this section, a finding that an alien filed a frivolous asylum application shall not preclude the alien from seeking withholding of removal under section 241(b)(3) or protection pursuant to the convention against torture.''. sec. 110. technical amendments. section 208 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1158) is amended-- (1) in subsection (a)-- (a) in paragraph (2)(d), by inserting ``secretary of homeland security or the'' before ``attorney general''; and (b) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``secretary of homeland security or the'' before ``attorney general''; (2) in subsection (c)-- (a) in paragraph (1), by striking ``attorney general'' each place such term appears and inserting ``secretary of homeland security''; (b) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding subparagraph (a), by inserting ``secretary of homeland security or the'' before ``attorney general''; and (c) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``secretary of homeland security or the'' before ``attorney general''; and (3) in subsection (d)-- (a) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``secretary of homeland security or the'' before ``attorney general'' each place such term appears; and (b) in paragraph (5)-- (i) in subparagraph (a), by striking ``attorney general'' and inserting ``secretary of homeland security''; and (ii) in subparagraph (b), by inserting ``secretary of homeland security or the'' before ``attorney general''. sec. 111. requirement for procedures relating to certain asylum applications. (a) in general.--not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the attorney general shall establish procedures to expedite the adjudication of asylum applications for aliens-- (1) who are subject to removal proceedings under section 240 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1229a); and (2) who are nationals of a western hemisphere country sanctioned by the united states, as described in subsection (b), as of january 1, 2024. (b) western hemisphere country sanctioned by the united states described.--subsection (a) shall apply only to an asylum application filed by an alien who is a national of a western hemisphere country subject to sanctions pursuant to-- (1) the cuban liberty and democratic solidarity (libertad) act of 1996 (22 u.s.c. 6021 note); (2) the reinforcing nicaragua's adherence to conditions for electoral reform act of 2021 or the renacer act (50 u.s.c. 1701 note); or (3) executive order 13692 (80 fed. reg. 12747; declaring a national emergency with respect to the situation in venezuela). (c) applicability.--this section shall only apply to an alien who files an application for [[page h2545]] asylum after the date of the enactment of this act. title ii--border safety and migrant protection sec. 201. inspection of applicants for admission. section 235 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1225) is amended-- (1) in subsection (b)-- (a) in paragraph (1)-- (i) in subparagraph (a)-- (i) in clauses (i) and (ii), by striking ``section 212(a)(6)(c)'' inserting ``subparagraph (a) or (c) of section 212(a)(6)''; and (ii) by adding at the end the following: ``(iv) ineligibility for parole.--an alien described in clause (i) or (ii) shall not be eligible for parole except as expressly authorized pursuant to section 212(d)(5), or for parole or release pursuant to section 236(a).''; and (ii) in subparagraph (b)-- (i) in clause (ii), by striking ``asylum.'' and inserting ``asylum and shall not be released (including pursuant to parole or release pursuant to section 236(a) but excluding as expressly authorized pursuant to section 212(d)(5)) other than to be removed or returned to a country as described in paragraph (3).''; and (ii) in clause (iii)(iv)-- (aa) in the header by striking ``detention'' and inserting ``detention, return, or removal''; and (bb) by adding at the end the following: ``the alien shall not be released (including pursuant to parole or release pursuant to section 236(a) but excluding as expressly authorized pursuant to section 212(d)(5)) other than to be removed or returned to a country as described in paragraph (3).''; (b) in paragraph (2)-- (i) in subparagraph (a)-- (i) by striking ``subject to subparagraphs (b) and (c),'' and inserting ``subject to subparagraph (b) and paragraph (3),''; and (ii) by adding at the end the following: ``the alien shall not be released (including pursuant to parole or release pursuant to section 236(a) but excluding as expressly authorized pursuant to section 212(d)(5)) other than to be removed or returned to a country as described in paragraph (3).''; and (ii) by striking subparagraph (c); (c) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (5); and (d) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following: ``(3) return to foreign territory contiguous to the united states.-- ``(a) in general.--the secretary of homeland security may return to a foreign territory contiguous to the united states any alien arriving on land from that territory (whether or not at a designated port of entry) pending a proceeding under section 240 or review of a determination under subsection (b)(1)(b)(iii)(iii). ``(b) mandatory return.--if at any time the secretary of homeland security cannot-- ``(i) comply with its obligations to detain an alien as required under clauses (ii) and (iii)(iv) of subsection (b)(1)(b) and subsection (b)(2)(a); or ``(ii) remove an alien to a country described in section 208(a)(2)(a), the secretary of homeland security shall, without exception, including pursuant to parole or release pursuant to section 236(a) but excluding as expressly authorized pursuant to section 212(d)(5), return to a foreign territory contiguous to the united states any alien arriving on land from that territory (whether or not at a designated port of entry) pending a proceeding under section 240 or review of a determination under subsection (b)(1)(b)(iii)(iii). ``(4) enforcement by state attorneys general.--the attorney general of a state, or other authorized state officer, alleging a violation of the detention, return, or removal requirements under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) that affects such state or its residents, may bring an action against the secretary of homeland security on behalf of the residents of the state in an appropriate united states district court to obtain appropriate injunctive relief.''; and (2) by adding at the end the following: ``(e) authority to prohibit introduction of certain aliens.--if the secretary of homeland security determines, in his discretion, that the prohibition of the introduction of aliens who are inadmissible under subparagraph (a) or (c) of section 212(a)(6) or under section 212(a)(7) at an international land or maritime border of the united states is necessary to achieve operational control (as defined in section 2 of the secure fence act of 2006 (8 u.s.c. 1701 note)) of such border, the secretary may prohibit, in whole or in part, the introduction of such aliens at such border for such period of time as the secretary determines is necessary for such purpose.''. sec. 202. operational detention facilities. (a) in general.--not later than september 30, 2024, the secretary of homeland security shall take all necessary actions to reopen or restore all u.s. immigration and customs enforcement detention facilities that were in operation on january 20, 2021, that subsequently closed or with respect to which the use was altered, reduced, or discontinued after january 20, 2021. in carrying out the requirement under this subsection, the secretary may use the authority under section 103(a)(11) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1103(a)(11)). (b) specific facilities.--the requirement under subsection (a) shall include at a minimum, reopening, or restoring, the following facilities: (1) irwin county detention center in georgia. (2) c. carlos carreiro immigration detention center in bristol county, massachusetts. (3) etowah county detention center in gadsden, alabama. (4) glades county detention center in moore haven, florida. (5) south texas family residential center. (c) exception.-- (1) in general.--except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), the secretary of homeland security is authorized to obtain equivalent capacity for detention facilities at locations other than those listed in subsection (b). (2) limitation.--the secretary may not take action under paragraph (1) unless the capacity obtained would result in a reduction of time and cost relative to the cost and time otherwise required to obtain such capacity. (3) south texas family residential center.--the exception under paragraph (1) shall not apply to the south texas family residential center. the secretary shall take all necessary steps to modify and operate the south texas family residential center in the same manner and capability it was operating on january 20, 2021. (d) periodic report.--not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act, and every 90 days thereafter until september 30, 2027, the secretary of homeland security shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a detailed plan for and a status report on-- (1) compliance with the deadline under subsection (a); (2) the increase in detention capabilities required by this section-- (a) for the 90 day period immediately preceding the date such report is submitted; and (b) for the period beginning on the first day of the fiscal year during which the report is submitted, and ending on the date such report is submitted; (3) the number of detention beds that were used and the number of available detention beds that were not used during-- (a) the 90 day period immediately preceding the date such report is submitted; and (b) the period beginning on the first day of the fiscal year during which the report is submitted, and ending on the date such report is submitted; (4) the number of aliens released due to a lack of available detention beds; and (5) the resources the department of homeland security needs in order to comply with the requirements under this section. (e) notification.--the secretary of homeland security shall notify congress, and include with such notification a detailed description of the resources the department of homeland security needs in order to detain all aliens whose detention is mandatory or nondiscretionary under the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1101 et seq.)-- (1) not later than 5 days after all u.s. immigration and customs enforcement detention facilities reach 90 percent of capacity; (2) not later than 5 days after all u.s. immigration and customs enforcement detention facilities reach 95 percent of capacity; and (3) not later than 5 days after all u.s. immigration and customs enforcement detention facilities reach full capacity. (f) appropriate congressional committees.--in this section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means-- (1) the committee on the judiciary of the house of representatives; (2) the committee on appropriations of the house of representatives; (3) the committee on the judiciary of the senate; and (4) the committee on appropriations of the senate. title iii--preventing uncontrolled migration flows in the western hemisphere sec. 301. united states policy regarding western hemisphere cooperation on immigration and asylum. it is the policy of the united states to enter into agreements, accords, and memoranda of understanding with countries in the western hemisphere, the purposes of which are to advance the interests of the united states by reducing costs associated with illegal immigration and to protect the human capital, societal traditions, and economic growth of other countries in the western hemisphere. it is further the policy of the united states to ensure that humanitarian and development assistance funding aimed at reducing illegal immigration is not expended on programs that have not proven to reduce illegal immigrant flows in the aggregate. sec. 302. negotiations by secretary of state. (a) authorization to negotiate.--the secretary of state shall seek to negotiate agreements, accords, and memoranda of understanding between the united states, mexico, honduras, el salvador, guatemala, and other countries in the western hemisphere with respect to cooperation and burden sharing required for effective regional immigration enforcement, expediting legal claims by aliens for asylum, and the processing, detention, and repatriation of foreign nationals seeking to enter the united states unlawfully. such agreements shall be designed to [[page h2546]] facilitate a regional approach to immigration enforcement and shall, at a minimum, provide that-- (1) the government of mexico authorize and accept the rapid entrance into mexico of nationals of countries other than mexico who seek asylum in mexico, and process the asylum claims of such nationals inside mexico, in accordance with both domestic law and international treaties and conventions governing the processing of asylum claims; (2) the government of mexico authorize and accept both the rapid entrance into mexico of all nationals of countries other than mexico who are ineligible for asylum in mexico and wish to apply for asylum in the united states, whether or not at a port of entry, and the continued presence of such nationals in mexico while they wait for the adjudication of their asylum claims to conclude in the united states; (3) the government of mexico commit to provide the individuals described in paragraphs (1) and (2) with appropriate humanitarian protections; (4) the government of honduras, the government of el salvador, and the government of guatemala each authorize and accept the entrance into the respective countries of nationals of other countries seeking asylum in the applicable such country and process such claims in accordance with applicable domestic law and international treaties and conventions governing the processing of asylum claims; (5) the government of the united states commit to work to accelerate the adjudication of asylum claims and to conclude removal proceedings in the wake of asylum adjudications as expeditiously as possible; (6) the government of the united states commit to continue to assist the governments of countries in the western hemisphere, such as the government of honduras, the government of el salvador, and the government of guatemala, by supporting the enhancement of asylum capacity in those countries; and (7) the government of the united states commit to monitoring developments in hemispheric immigration trends and regional asylum capabilities to determine whether additional asylum cooperation agreements are warranted. (b) notification in accordance with case-zablocki act.--the secretary of state shall, in accordance with section 112b of title 1, united states code, promptly inform the relevant congressional committees of each agreement entered into pursuant to subsection (a). such notifications shall be submitted not later than 48 hours after such agreements are signed. (c) alien defined.--in this section, the term ``alien'' has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1101). sec. 303. mandatory briefings on united states efforts to address the border crisis. (a) briefing required.--not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act, and not less frequently than once every 90 days thereafter until the date described in subsection (b), the secretary of state, or the designee of the secretary of state, shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees an in-person briefing on efforts undertaken pursuant to the negotiation authority provided by section 302 of this title to monitor, deter, and prevent illegal immigration to the united states, including by entering into agreements, accords, and memoranda of understanding with foreign countries and by using united states foreign assistance to stem the root causes of migration in the western hemisphere. (b) termination of mandatory briefing.--the date described in this subsection is the date on which the secretary of state, in consultation with the heads of other relevant federal departments and agencies, determines and certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that illegal immigration flows have subsided to a manageable rate. (c) appropriate congressional committees defined.--in this section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives and the committee on foreign relations of the senate. title iv--ensuring united families at the border sec. 401. clarification of standards for family detention. (a) in general.--section 235 of the william wilberforce trafficking victims protection reauthorization act of 2008 (8 u.s.c. 1232) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(j) construction.-- ``(1) in general.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, judicial determination, consent decree, or settlement agreement, the detention of any alien child who is not an unaccompanied alien child shall be governed by sections 217, 235, 236, and 241 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1187, 1225, 1226, and 1231). there is no presumption that an alien child who is not an unaccompanied alien child should not be detained. ``(2) family detention.--the secretary of homeland security shall-- ``(a) maintain the care and custody of an alien, during the period during which the charges described in clause (i) are pending, who-- ``(i) is charged only with a misdemeanor offense under section 275(a) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1325(a)); and ``(ii) entered the united states with the alien's child who has not attained 18 years of age; and ``(b) detain the alien with the alien's child.''. (b) sense of congress.--it is the sense of congress that the amendments in this section to section 235 of the william wilberforce trafficking victims protection reauthorization act of 2008 (8 u.s.c. 1232) are intended to satisfy the requirements of the settlement agreement in flores v. meese, no. 85-4544 (c.d. cal), as approved by the court on january 28, 1997, with respect to its interpretation in flores v. johnson, 212 f. supp. 3d 864 (c.d. cal. 2015), that the agreement applies to accompanied minors. (c) effective date.--the amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this act and shall apply to all actions that occur before, on, or after such date. (d) preemption of state licensing requirements.-- notwithstanding any other provision of law, judicial determination, consent decree, or settlement agreement, no state may require that an immigration detention facility used to detain children who have not attained 18 years of age, or families consisting of one or more of such children and the parents or legal guardians of such children, that is located in that state, be licensed by the state or any political subdivision thereof. title v--protection of children sec. 501. findings. congress makes the following findings: (1) implementation of the provisions of the trafficking victims protection reauthorization act of 2008 that govern unaccompanied alien children has incentivized multiple surges of unaccompanied alien children arriving at the southwest border in the years since the bill's enactment. (2) the provisions of the trafficking victims protection reauthorization act of 2008 that govern unaccompanied alien children treat unaccompanied alien children from countries that are contiguous to the united states disparately by swiftly returning them to their home country absent indications of trafficking or a credible fear of return, but allowing for the release of unaccompanied alien children from noncontiguous countries into the interior of the united states, often to those individuals who paid to smuggle them into the country in the first place. (3) the provisions of the trafficking victims protection reauthorization act of 2008 governing unaccompanied alien children have enriched the cartels, who profit hundreds of millions of dollars each year by smuggling unaccompanied alien children to the southwest border, exploiting and sexually abusing many such unaccompanied alien children on the perilous journey. (4) prior to 2008, the number of unaccompanied alien children encountered at the southwest border never exceeded 1,000 in a single year. (5) the united states is currently in the midst of the worst crisis of unaccompanied alien children in our nation's history, with over 350,000 such unaccompanied alien children encountered at the southwest border since joe biden became president. (6) in 2022, during the biden administration, 152,057 unaccompanied alien children were encountered, the most ever in a single year and an over 400 percent increase compared to the last full fiscal year of the trump administration in which 33,239 unaccompanied alien children were encountered. (7) the biden administration has lost contact with at least 85,000 unaccompanied alien children who entered the united states since joe biden took office. (8) the biden administration dismantled effective safeguards put in place by the trump administration that protected unaccompanied alien children from being abused by criminals or exploited for illegal and dangerous child labor. (9) a recent new york times investigation found that unaccompanied alien children are being exploited in the labor market and ``are ending up in some of the most punishing jobs in the country.''. (10) the times investigation found unaccompanied alien children, ``under intense pressure to earn money'' in order to ``send cash back to their families while often being in debt to their sponsors for smuggling fees, rent, and living expenses,'' feared ``that they had become trapped in circumstances they never could have imagined.''. (11) the biden administration's department of health and human services secretary xavier becerra compared placing unaccompanied alien children with sponsors, to widgets in an assembly line, stating that, ``if henry ford had seen this in his plant, he would have never become famous and rich. this is not the way you do an assembly line.''. (12) department of health and human services employees working under secretary xavier becerra's leadership penned a july 2021 memorandum expressing serious concern that ``labor trafficking was increasing'' and that the agency had become ``one that rewards individuals for making quick releases, and not one that rewards individuals for preventing unsafe releases.''. (13) despite this, secretary xavier becerra pressured then- director of the office of refugee resettlement cindy huang to prioritize releases of unaccompanied alien children over ensuring their safety, telling her ``if she could not increase the number of discharges he would find someone who could'' and then-director huang resigned one month later. [[page h2547]] (14) in june 2014, the obama-biden administration requested legal authority to exercise discretion in returning and removing unaccompanied alien children from non-contiguous countries back to their home countries. (15) in august 2014, the house of representatives passed h.r. 5320, which included the protection of children act. (16) this title ends the disparate policies of the trafficking victims protection reauthorization act of 2008 by ensuring the swift return of all unaccompanied alien children to their country of origin if they are not victims of trafficking and do not have a fear of return. sec. 502. repatriation of unaccompanied alien children. (a) in general.--section 235 of the william wilberforce trafficking victims protection reauthorization act of 2008 (8 u.s.c. 1232) is amended-- (1) in subsection (a)-- (a) in paragraph (2)-- (i) by amending the heading to read as follows: ``rules for unaccompanied alien children.--''; (ii) in subparagraph (a)-- (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``who is a national or habitual resident of a country that is contiguous with the united states''; (ii) in clause (i), by inserting ``and'' at the end; (iii) in clause (ii), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a period; and (iv) by striking clause (iii); and (iii) in subparagraph (b)-- (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``(8 u.s.c. 1101 et seq.) may--'' and inserting ``(8 u.s.c. 1101 et seq.)--''; (ii) in clause (i), by inserting before ``permit such child to withdraw'' the following: ``may''; and (iii) in clause (ii), by inserting before ``return such child'' the following: ``shall''; and (b) in paragraph (5)(d)-- (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``, except for an unaccompanied alien child from a contiguous country subject to exceptions under subsection (a)(2),'' and inserting ``who does not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (2)(a)''; and (ii) in clause (i), by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following: ``, which shall include a hearing before an immigration judge not later than 14 days after being screened under paragraph (4)''; (2) in subsection (b)-- (a) in paragraph (2)-- (i) in subparagraph (a), by inserting before the semicolon the following: ``believed not to meet the criteria listed in subsection (a)(2)(a)''; and (ii) in subparagraph (b), by inserting before the period the following: ``and does not meet the criteria listed in subsection (a)(2)(a)''; and (b) in paragraph (3), by striking ``an unaccompanied alien child in custody shall'' and all that follows, and inserting the following: ``an unaccompanied alien child in custody-- ``(a) in the case of a child who does not meet the criteria listed in subsection (a)(2)(a), shall transfer the custody of such child to the secretary of health and human services not later than 30 days after determining that such child is an unaccompanied alien child who does not meet such criteria; or ``(b) in the case of a child who meets the criteria listed in subsection (a)(2)(a), may transfer the custody of such child to the secretary of health and human services after determining that such child is an unaccompanied alien child who meets such criteria.''; and (3) in subsection (c)-- (a) in paragraph (3), by inserting at the end the following: ``(d) information about individuals with whom children are placed.-- ``(i) information to be provided to homeland security.-- before placing a child with an individual, the secretary of health and human services shall provide to the secretary of homeland security, regarding the individual with whom the child will be placed, information on-- ``(i) the name of the individual; ``(ii) the social security number of the individual; ``(iii) the date of birth of the individual; ``(iv) the location of the individual's residence where the child will be placed; ``(v) the immigration status of the individual, if known; and ``(vi) contact information for the individual. ``(ii) activities of the secretary of homeland security.-- not later than 30 days after receiving the information listed in clause (i), the secretary of homeland security, upon determining that an individual with whom a child is placed is unlawfully present in the united states and not in removal proceedings pursuant to chapter 4 of title ii of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1221 et seq.), shall initiate such removal proceedings.''; and (b) in paragraph (5)-- (i) by inserting after ``to the greatest extent practicable'' the following: ``(at no expense to the government)''; and (ii) by striking ``have counsel to represent them'' and inserting ``have access to counsel to represent them''. (b) effective date.--the amendments made by this section shall apply to any unaccompanied alien child (as such term is defined in section 462(g) of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 279(g))) apprehended on or after the date that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this act. sec. 503. special immigrant juvenile status for immigrants unable to reunite with either parent. section 101(a)(27)(j) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1101(a)(27)(j)) is amended-- (1) in clause (i), by striking ``, and whose reunification with 1 or both of the immigrant's parents is not viable due to abuse, neglect, abandonment, or a similar basis found under state law''; and (2) in clause (iii)-- (a) in subclause (i), by striking ``and'' at the end; (b) in subclause (ii), by inserting ``and'' after the semicolon; and (c) by adding at the end the following: ``(iii) an alien may not be granted special immigrant status under this subparagraph if the alien's reunification with any one parent or legal guardian is not precluded by abuse, neglect, abandonment, or any similar cause under state law;''. sec. 504. rule of construction. nothing in this title shall be construed to limit the following procedures or practices relating to an unaccompanied alien child (as defined in section 462(g)(2) of the homeland security act of 2002 (6 u.s.c. 279(g)(2))): (1) screening of such a child for a credible fear of return to his or her country of origin. (2) screening of such a child to determine whether he or she was a victim of trafficking. (3) department of health and human services policy in effect on the date of the enactment of this act requiring a home study for such a child if he or she is under 12 years of age. title vi--visa overstays penalties sec. 601. expanded penalties for illegal entry or presence. section 275 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1325) is amended-- (1) in subsection (a) by inserting after ``for a subsequent commission of any such offense'' the following: ``or if the alien was previously convicted of an offense under subsection (e)(2)(a)''; (2) in subsection (b)-- (a) in paragraph (1), by striking ``at least $50 and not more than $250'' and inserting ``not less than $500 and not more than $1,000''; and (b) in paragraph (2), by inserting after ``in the case of an alien who has been previously subject to a civil penalty under this subsection'' the following: ``or subsection (e)(2)(b)''; and (3) by adding at the end the following: ``(e) visa overstays.-- ``(1) in general.--an alien who was admitted as a nonimmigrant has violated this paragraph if the alien, for an aggregate of 10 days or more, has failed-- ``(a) to maintain the nonimmigrant status in which the alien was admitted, or to which it was changed under section 248, including complying with the period of stay authorized by the secretary of homeland security in connection with such status; or ``(b) to comply otherwise with the conditions of such nonimmigrant status. ``(2) penalties.--an alien who has violated paragraph (1)-- ``(a) shall-- ``(i) for the first commission of such a violation, be fined under title 18, united states code, or imprisoned not more than 6 months, or both; and ``(ii) for a subsequent commission of such a violation, or if the alien was previously convicted of an offense under subsection (a), be fined under such title 18, or imprisoned not more than 2 years, or both; and ``(b) in addition to, and not in lieu of, any penalty under subparagraph (a) and any other criminal or civil penalties that may be imposed, shall be subject to a civil penalty of-- ``(i) not less than $500 and not more than $1,000 for each violation; or ``(ii) twice the amount specified in clause (i), in the case of an alien who has been previously subject to a civil penalty under this subparagraph or subsection (b).''. title vii--immigration parole reform sec. 701. immigration parole reform. section 212(d)(5) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1182(d)(5)) is amended to read as follows: ``(5)(a) except as provided in subparagraphs (b) and (c) and section 214(f), the secretary of homeland security, in the discretion of the secretary, may temporarily parole into the united states any alien applying for admission to the united states who is not present in the united states, under such conditions as the secretary may prescribe, on a case-by- case basis, and not according to eligibility criteria describing an entire class of potential parole recipients, for urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public benefit. parole granted under this subparagraph may not be regarded as an admission of the alien. when the purposes of such parole have been served in the opinion of the secretary, the alien shall immediately return or be returned to the custody from which the alien was paroled. after such return, the case of the alien shall be dealt with in the same manner as the case of any other applicant for admission to the united states. ``(b) the secretary of homeland security may grant parole to any alien who-- [[page h2548]] ``(i) is present in the united states without lawful immigration status; ``(ii) is the beneficiary of an approved petition under section 203(a); ``(iii) is not otherwise inadmissible or removable; and ``(iv) is the spouse or child of a member of the armed forces serving on active duty. ``(c) the secretary of homeland security may grant parole to any alien-- ``(i) who is a national of the republic of cuba and is living in the republic of cuba; ``(ii) who is the beneficiary of an approved petition under section 203(a); ``(iii) for whom an immigrant visa is not immediately available; ``(iv) who meets all eligibility requirements for an immigrant visa; ``(v) who is not otherwise inadmissible; and ``(vi) who is receiving a grant of parole in furtherance of the commitment of the united states to the minimum level of annual legal migration of cuban nationals to the united states specified in the u.s.-cuba joint communique on migration, done at new york september 9, 1994, and reaffirmed in the cuba-united states: joint statement on normalization of migration, building on the agreement of september 9, 1994, done at new york may 2, 1995. ``(d) the secretary of homeland security may grant parole to an alien who is returned to a contiguous country under section 235(b)(3) to allow the alien to attend the alien's immigration hearing. the grant of parole shall not exceed the time required for the alien to be escorted to, and attend, the alien's immigration hearing scheduled on the same calendar day as the grant, and to immediately thereafter be escorted back to the contiguous country. a grant of parole under this subparagraph shall not be considered for purposes of determining whether the alien is inadmissible under this act. ``(e) for purposes of determining an alien's eligibility for parole under subparagraph (a), an urgent humanitarian reason shall be limited to circumstances in which the alien establishes that-- ``(i)(i) the alien has a medical emergency; and ``(ii)(aa) the alien cannot obtain necessary treatment in the foreign state in which the alien is residing; or ``(bb) the medical emergency is life-threatening and there is insufficient time for the alien to be admitted to the united states through the normal visa process; ``(ii) the alien is the parent or legal guardian of an alien described in clause (i) and the alien described in clause (i) is a minor; ``(iii) the alien is needed in the united states in order to donate an organ or other tissue for transplant and there is insufficient time for the alien to be admitted to the united states through the normal visa process; ``(iv) the alien has a close family member in the united states whose death is imminent and the alien could not arrive in the united states in time to see such family member alive if the alien were to be admitted to the united states through the normal visa process; ``(v) the alien is seeking to attend the funeral of a close family member and the alien could not arrive in the united states in time to attend such funeral if the alien were to be admitted to the united states through the normal visa process; ``(vi) the alien is an adopted child with an urgent medical condition who is in the legal custody of the petitioner for a final adoption-related visa and whose medical treatment is required before the expected award of a final adoption- related visa; or ``(vii) the alien is a lawful applicant for adjustment of status under section 245 and is returning to the united states after temporary travel abroad. ``(f) for purposes of determining an alien's eligibility for parole under subparagraph (a), a significant public benefit may be determined to result from the parole of an alien only if-- ``(i) the alien has assisted (or will assist, whether knowingly or not) the united states government in a law enforcement matter; ``(ii) the alien's presence is required by the government in furtherance of such law enforcement matter; and ``(iii) the alien is inadmissible, does not satisfy the eligibility requirements for admission as a nonimmigrant, or there is insufficient time for the alien to be admitted to the united states through the normal visa process. ``(g) for purposes of determining an alien's eligibility for parole under subparagraph (a), the term `case-by-case basis' means that the facts in each individual case are considered and parole is not granted based on membership in a defined class of aliens to be granted parole. the fact that aliens are considered for or granted parole one-by-one and not as a group is not sufficient to establish that the parole decision is made on a `case-by-case basis'. ``(h) the secretary of homeland security may not use the parole authority under this paragraph to parole an alien into the united states for any reason or purpose other than those described in subparagraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f). ``(i) an alien granted parole may not accept employment, except that an alien granted parole pursuant to subparagraph (b) or (c) is authorized to accept employment for the duration of the parole, as evidenced by an employment authorization document issued by the secretary of homeland security. ``(j) parole granted after a departure from the united states shall not be regarded as an admission of the alien. an alien granted parole, whether as an initial grant of parole or parole upon reentry into the united states, is not eligible to adjust status to lawful permanent residence or for any other immigration benefit if the immigration status the alien had at the time of departure did not authorize the alien to adjust status or to be eligible for such benefit. ``(k)(i) except as provided in clauses (ii) and (iii), parole shall be granted to an alien under this paragraph for the shorter of-- ``(i) a period of sufficient length to accomplish the activity described in subparagraph (d), (e), or (f) for which the alien was granted parole; or ``(ii) 1 year. ``(ii) grants of parole pursuant to subparagraph (a) may be extended once, in the discretion of the secretary, for an additional period that is the shorter of-- ``(i) the period that is necessary to accomplish the activity described in subparagraph (e) or (f) for which the alien was granted parole; or ``(ii) 1 year. ``(iii) aliens who have a pending application to adjust status to permanent residence under section 245 may request extensions of parole under this paragraph, in 1-year increments, until the application for adjustment has been adjudicated. such parole shall terminate immediately upon the denial of such adjustment application. ``(l) not later than 90 days after the last day of each fiscal year, the secretary of homeland security shall submit to the committee on the judiciary of the senate and the committee on the judiciary of the house of representatives and make available to the public, a report-- ``(i) identifying the total number of aliens paroled into the united states under this paragraph during the previous fiscal year; and ``(ii) containing information and data regarding all aliens paroled during such fiscal year, including-- ``(i) the duration of parole; ``(ii) the type of parole; and ``(iii) the current status of the aliens so paroled.''. sec. 702. implementation. (a) in general.--except as provided in subsection (b), this title and the amendments made by this title shall take effect on the date that is 30 days after the date of the enactment of this act. (b) exceptions.--notwithstanding subsection (a), each of the following exceptions apply: (1) any application for parole or advance parole filed by an alien before the date of the enactment of this act shall be adjudicated under the law that was in effect on the date on which the application was properly filed and any approved advance parole shall remain valid under the law that was in effect on the date on which the advance parole was approved. (2) section 212(d)(5)(j) of the immigration and nationality act, as added by section 701 of this title, shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this act. (3) aliens who were paroled into the united states pursuant to section 212(d)(5)(a) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1182(d)(5)(a)) before january 1, 2024, shall continue to be subject to the terms of parole that were in effect on the date on which their respective parole was approved. sec. 703. cause of action. any person, state, or local government that experiences financial harm in excess of $1,000 due to a failure of the federal government to lawfully apply the provisions of this title or the amendments made by this title shall have standing to bring a civil action against the federal government in an appropriate district court of the united states for appropriate relief. sec. 704. severability. if any provision of this title or any amendment by this title, or the application of such provision or amendment to any person or circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this title and the application of such provision or amendment to any other person or circumstance shall not be affected. title viii--supporting our border states sec. 801. border barrier grants. (a) authorization.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, not later than 30 days after the president receives from the governor of a southwest border state a certification that the governor intends to use a grant under this section for a purpose set forth in subsection (b), the president shall-- (1) acting through the secretary of the treasury, disburse the amount determined with respect to the state under subsection (c); and (2) ensure that all relevant federal entities take such actions as may be necessary to allow for the use of grant funds in accordance with subsection (b). (b) use of grant funds.--a grant under this section shall be used for the construction of a southwest border barrier, including continuing the construction of or repairs to portions of existing border barrier sufficient to prevent vehicular and pedestrian crossings across the southwest border from mexico into the united states, and associated infrastructure, including physical barriers and associated detection technology, roads, and lighting. [[page h2549]] (c) determination of grant amount.-- (1) in general.--the amount disbursed to a southwest border state under this section shall be equal to the amount determined with respect to the state under paragraph (2). (2) ratio.--of the total amount appropriated under section 803(c)(1), the amount disbursed to a southwest border state shall be in an amount that bears the same ratio of-- (a) the number of miles along the southwest border of the united states located in that state where there is no border barrier to-- (b) the total number of miles along the southwest border of the united states where there is no border barrier. (3) determinations.--not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary of homeland security shall make the determinations under paragraph (2). sec. 802. law enforcement reimbursement grants. (a) authorization.--notwithstanding any other provision of law, not later than 30 days after the president receives from the governor of a southwest border state a certification that the governor intends to use a grant under this section for a purpose set forth in subsection (b), the president shall acting through the secretary of the treasury, disburse the amount determined with respect to the state under subsection (c). (b) use of grant funds.--a grant under this section may be used for the reimbursement of expenditures related to the deployment of law enforcement or the national guard at the southwest border of the united states, in furtherance of any law enforcement operation related to border security or immigration enforcement conducted by a governor of a southwest border state (such as texas governor greg abbott's operational lone star), to-- (1) enforce the law of that state; (2) secure that border; (3) combat international criminal activity, including human trafficking, illicit narcotics trafficking (including fentanyl trafficking), and cartel or gang activity; (4) detect and deter the unlawful entry of any alien; or (5) arrest and detain any alien who unlawfully enters the united states or who is present in the united states without lawful status under the immigration laws (as such term is defined in section 101 of the immigration and nationality act). (c) determination of grant amount.-- (1) initial grant.--of the total amount appropriated under section 803(c)(2), the amount disbursed to a southwest border state shall be in an amount that bears the same ratio of-- (a) the number border encounters along the southwest border of the united states in that state, as reported in the statistics for fiscal year 2023 compiled by u.s. customs and border protection entitled ``southwest land border encounters'', to-- (b) the total number of border encounters along the southwest border of the united states for fiscal year 2023. (2) subsequent grant.--of the total amount reallocated under section 803(d), the amount disbursed to a southwest border state shall be in an amount that bears the same ratio of-- (a) the amount of expenditures that are eligible for reimbursement under this section for which the state has not been reimbursed to-- (b) the total amount of expenditures that are eligible for reimbursement under this section for which all southwest border states have not been reimbursed. (d) period of expenditures.-- (1) initial grant.--an initial grant under this section may be used for expenditures incurred during the period beginning on january 20, 2021 and ending on the date on which the state receives the grant. (2) subsequent grant.--a subsequent grant under this section may be used for expenditures incurred on or after january 20, 2021. sec. 803. border emergency and state security fund. (a) establishment.--there is established in the general fund of the treasury a separate account which shall be known as the ``border emergency and state security fund'' (referred to in this section as the ``fund''). (b) appropriations.--there is hereby appropriated to the fund $9,500,000,000 to remain available until expended. (c) allocation.--of the amounts appropriated under subsection (b)-- (1) $6,000,000,000 is for grants under section 801; and (2) $3,500,000,000 is for grants under section 802. (d) reallocation.-- (1) in general.--on october 1, 2024, any covered funds shall be made available to southwest border states, or used by such states, as applicable, for grants under section 802. (2) covered funds defined.--in this subsection, the term ``covered funds'' means-- (a) funds allocated under subsection (c)(1) that have not been obligated for grants under section 801 or that a southwest border state certifies will not be used for a grant received under such section 2; and (b) funds allocated under subsection (c)(2) that have not been obligated for grants under section 802 or that a southwest border state certifies will not be used for a grant received under such section 3. (e) rescission.--the total amount of unobligated funds made available by section 101(e) of the fiscal responsibility act of 2023 (public law 118-5) for the department of commerce nonrecurring expenses fund are hereby permanently rescinded. sec. 804. definitions. in this title: (1) the term ``alien'' has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1101) (2) the term ``southwest border state'' means texas, new mexico, arizona, or california. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from alabama (mr. moore) and the gentleman from new york (mr. nadler) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from alabama. {time} 1115 general leave mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and insert extraneous material on h.r. 3602. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from alabama? there was no objection. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. joe biden took the office of president and immediately did exactly what he had promised on the campaign trail to do: he reversed the trump administration's immigration policies. by doing so, the new president let the world know that america's borders are open. president biden rescinded the remain in mexico policy, prevented the removal of illegal aliens, and blocked immigration and customs enforcement and customs and border protection from enforcing immigration laws. in the weeks and months that followed, president biden terminated the trump-era policies aimed at preventing fraudulent asylum claims, ending catch and release, increasing criminal alien removals, and preventing illegal immigration. we are still in the midst of the biden administration's extended result: the biggest mass illegal immigration in the history of the united states. more than 7.6 million illegal aliens have been encountered by cbp on the southwest border. there have been 38 straight months of more than 100,000 southwest border cbp encounters. the biden administration has released nearly 4.7 million illegal aliens into america's communities, in addition to at least 1.8 million known got-aways avoiding apprehension. at least 357 illegal aliens on the terrorist watch list have been encountered by border patrol along the southwest border. no doubt more have evaded detection. all of this is just on the southwest border. our northern border is also seeing record-high numbers of illegal aliens encountered by cbp. early last year, house republicans acted to secure our border. we passed h.r. 2, the secure the border act, to end the abuse of the u.s. immigration system, whether by the administration, cartels, or the illegal aliens themselves. had senate democrat leadership not refused to debate h.r. 2 on the senate floor for more than 330 days, perhaps we would not still have mass lawlessness on our border. in the meantime, we keep reading media reports that president biden is looking to use his executive authority to quell the border chaos. each time, though, the open-borders advocates tell joe biden not to use that authority, and each time he bends to their wishes. americans are outraged that our own federal government turns a blind eye to the chaos that has been created. americans are tired of seeing mobs of illegal aliens beating up new york police officers, watching endless numbers of illegal aliens stream across the southwest border, and hearing the heart-wrenching details of the deaths of innocent young men and women, including a u.s. senate staffer, caused by illegal aliens who should not have been here in the first place. today, house republicans are trying again to make our democrat colleagues and president biden take this border crisis seriously. h.r. 3602 will restore successful trump-era policies and remove the rewards and incentives [[page h2550]] the democrats have used to entice people to violate our own nation's sovereignty. division a includes provisions in the homeland security committee's jurisdiction that help secure our border. for instance, it includes provisions to require border wall construction, to increase the number of border patrol agents, and provide them with bonus pay and to deploy additional technology to that border. division b includes provisions in the jurisdiction of the judiciary and foreign affairs committees. title i reforms the asylum process to deter fraudulent asylum claims from aliens, including economic migrants, and assures that aliens granted asylum are truly being persecuted by their existing government. title ii ends the biden administration's catch and release policies by clarifying that the dhs secretary must remove or detain illegal aliens who arrive at the border or place them into remain in mexico- type programs. there are no other options. the aliens cannot be paroled or otherwise released into the u.s. unless an immigration judge grants that alien asylum or some other immigration benefit. title iii directs the secretary of state to renegotiate successful trump policies--asylum cooperative agreements and the remain in mexico program--with his diplomatic counterparts. title iv fixes the disastrous flores settlement that rewards illegal aliens who rent or buy children to pose as family units to avoid detention. instead, it keeps legitimate families together as they await adjudication of their asylum claims. title v requires that unaccompanied alien children be immediately and safely returned to their home country--as we already do for unaccompanied children from mexico and canada--rather than trafficked, abandoned, and then exploited in our country. it helps end our government's role in child smuggling and trafficking, a role that is morally reprehensible. title vi applies the same penalties for visa overstays as we currently do for illegal border crossings. under current law, it is a misdemeanor to cross the border illegally, a felony to cross it repeatedly, and yet only a civil infraction to overstay your visa. title vii ends the biden administration's abuse of parole authority, abuses which circumvent immigration law. parole is inherently a case- by-case review based on individual circumstances in which the rigors of the law are inappropriate. parole by category is not parole. it is a new law by fiat. instead, such changes must be considered and passed by congress in a nation that respects the rule of law. finally, title viii creates two grant programs. the first provides funding for states to construct or improve border barriers and border technology. the second reimburses states for money spent on law enforcement activities related to the border. h.r. 3602 will help end the border chaos and ensure respect for u.s. immigration laws. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise today in opposition to this foolhardy attempt to pass for a second time one of the most draconian immigration bills this congress has ever seen. this rehashing of h.r. 2 is a joke. they say that the definition of insanity is trying something over and over but expecting different results. yet here we are, debating a bill once again that continues to have no chance of being enacted into law. we know that because h.r. 2 has been brought up and failed twice in the senate, most recently garnering a mere 32 votes. this is nothing more than pure political theater. i truly do not know what it is that the speaker wants us to suspend: the rules of the house or our disbelief. my republican colleagues continue to show us that they are not interested in finding real solutions to tough issues. let us be very clear about what this legislation would do. this bill serves as a wholesale ban on asylum and the end of parole. no one would be able to seek asylum in the united states if they cross between ports of entry or if they had, or could have had, even temporary status in a third country. the last time we considered this bill, democrats offered a variety of amendments to exempt the most vulnerable from some of these requirements. this included those fleeing communist and totalitarian regimes and unaccompanied children. the majority was not willing to exempt children under a year old. when it comes to parole, republicans were not willing to support codifying the vital uniting for ukraine parole program, which has aided over 100,000 ukrainians fleeing putin's unlawful invasion of ukraine. this is not serious legislation. given their slim margins, it is unclear that republicans could even pass h.r. 2 in its entirety today. as such, the majority had to make some tweaks to the bill to try to convince any republican holdouts that their marquee bill is a good idea. for example, this version removes h.r. 2's nationwide e-verify mandate. if passed into law, this would have decimated our economy, especially our agriculture sector. some republicans previously voted ``no'' because of this provision, but removing this title appears to be doing little for the bill's prospects. other republicans, including the chairman of the immigration integrity, security, and enforcement subcommittee, support this provision and have expressed concern over its removal. this whole exercise is a huge waste of our time. not only does this bill not have the votes in the senate, it probably does not even have the votes to pass the house today. in what appears to be an effort to gain the support of mr. roy, an early opponent of the speaker's approach to the foreign aid package, the e-verify section was replaced with a new grant program to reimburse states for enforcing immigration law. this is intended to reimburse the state of texas for the money governor greg abbott has spent defying our federal system with operation lone star, even though numerous components of this operation have been ruled unlawful by the courts. if the hope was that this provision would earn the support of mr. roy, it seems to have failed, since we are only considering this bill under suspension because he and others would not even support moving this bill out of the rules committee. not only is this not serious legislation, this is not a serious process. let us remember how we got here. after passing h.r. 2 in may of last year, republicans spent the next 7 months saying that h.r. 2 was the only way to secure the border, even though they know that it cannot become law, having been so overwhelmingly rejected by the senate. then they insisted that the price of helping protect ukraine against russian aggression was enacting harsh border enforcement legislation. senate republicans even managed to convince some democrats to agree to a border bill in the senate, a bill that minority leader mcconnell called the toughest border bill in 30 years, but republicans could not take yes for an answer. donald trump said that he did not want to do anything that might help at the border in an election year because he wants immigration as a campaign issue. other republicans said it out loud, too, saying they do not want to do too damn much to help a democrat. folding to the cult of donald trump, and just hours after the 370- page text of that bill was released, speaker johnson declared the bill dead on arrival in the house, with the rest of the republican conference quickly falling in line. republicans showed clearly what democrats have been saying over and over again, that they do not want to do anything that would help address our broken immigration system. they just want to talk tough, without doing the hard work of actually legislating. now, this version of h.r. 2 is being sent to the floor to give republicans cover to vote for necessary aid for our allies ukraine, israel, and taiwan. if this political theater and show vote of this bill is what they need to pass vital aid to ukraine, israel, and taiwan, then fine, but let us not pretend we are accomplishing anything here today. this is a waste of our time. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from arizona (mr. ciscomani). [[page h2551]] mr. ciscomani. mr. speaker, i thank my friend from alabama for yielding me time. i am glad to see this body taking up my border security legislation today alongside these other important packages as well. now, the gentleman from new york calls this a joke. well, i do not know what he finds funny, but nothing about this situation is funny. it is not funny to our border patrol agents; it is not funny to my border communities; and it is certainly not funny to the hundreds of thousands of women and children being trafficked by the mexican cartels at our southern border. there is nothing funny about this situation. let us be clear: our border is broken and has been for a long time. at a time where our world is more dangerous than ever and our adversaries are emboldened, protecting our homeland is our most critical priority. attacks by our adversaries have spurred the urgent need to support our allies. congress should be able and must do both, and it all starts with a secure border, mr. speaker. this bill takes major strides in addressing our porous border. it would immediately restart construction of the border wall, end the disastrous catch and release policies, and streamline the asylum process. we have seen policies that work, including remain in mexico and asylum cooperative agreements in the northern triangle. this bill would start the process of going back to those policies and, in turn, stem the flow we are seeing. the united states congress is the most powerful body in the world. we must be able to support our allies while we protect our homeland as well. the world is looking to america for strength, and our country is looking to washington for leadership. the administration is nowhere to be found, has been nowhere to be found. we must step up and fill the gaps the white house has left by their weakened foreign and domestic policy stances. since january of 2021, there have been more than 7.6 million migrant encounters at our southwestern border. in addition to this staggering 7.6 million, estimates suggest upwards of 1.8 million additional illegal immigrants that evaded border patrol and entered our country. most notably, 169 individuals on the terrorist watch list were apprehended at the border in fy23. these are no longer just families coming to america in search of a better life. in fy24 so far, we have witnessed over 20,000 chinese nationals at the southwest border. encounters of chinese nationals have already surpassed all of last fiscal year. i recently went to israel and personally walked through the devastation of october 7. make no mistake, hamas wishes the same fate on americans. this bill does not just address a major national security weakness, it solves a crisis that millions of americans already live with. in my district alone, we have seen close to 1,000 migrants per day enter our communities. arizonans have seen a spike in high-speed car chases and illicit activity by mexican cartels. in fy 2023, fentanyl overdoses in the u.s. rose above 112,000. fentanyl overdose death is becoming the number one cause of death among young people in my home county of pima county. {time} 1130 mr. ciscomani. my colleagues from new york to oregon have seen the effects of our border crisis in their own communities. we must send the signal that the u.s. southern border is not open. our adversaries, whether it is the mexican cartels or the ccp, will seize any moment to take advantage of american weakness. each of these packages take a firm stance to stand with our allies in israel, taiwan, and ukraine. in turn, my bill takes a firm stance on america's strength in our homeland. mr. speaker, this is personal to me. not only is it the number one issue in my district, it is the number one issue for republicans and democrats in my district as well. i am a third-generation american. i immigrated here with my family when i was a young boy. today, the open-border policies of the biden administration are not the way of the american dream. it dilutes and diminishes the efforts and sacrifice of so many immigrants that came before us to open the way, invest in this country, and became americans. it is fueling human trafficking and enabling the cartels and flooding our country with fentanyl and other deadly drugs. america is the land of opportunity. i believe that. i am a proud product of the american dream, living it every single day, mr. speaker. but the crisis at our southern border is not the american dream. it is a nightmare. we must take steps to secure our southern border immediately. this legislation is a start. i urge my colleagues to vote ``yes.'' mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the distinguished gentleman from mississippi (mr. thompson). mr. thompson of mississippi. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman from new york for giving me the time. mr. speaker, i rise in a strong opposition to this sideshow. consideration of h.r. 3602 today is a cynical move meant to appease republicans who refuse to provide aid to fight autocrats and terrorists unless they get to deport migrant kids first. these extreme maga republicans care more about scoring political points than finding solutions and refuse to consider the bipartisan senate border security and immigration enforcement bill. they are having a hissy fit after the senate threw out their unconstitutional articles of impeachment against the secretary of homeland security, alejandro mayorkas. they care only about electing donald trump, and they are happy to rip up the constitution, create chaos at the border and prop up vladimir putin to do it. this is why they are insisting on rehashing this terrible bill, which has zero chance of passing the house, let alone the senate h.r. 3602 shifts all border processing to ports of entry without providing any additional resources. the bill does not fund a single new officer at ports of entry where more than 90 percent of fentanyl is interdicted. our ports of entry are already short over 4,000 officers. when the committee on homeland security considered a version of this bill last year, democrats tried to add an additional 1,700 officers, but republicans refused. furthermore, this xenophobic bill would strip dhs funding from any community or religious organization that helped migrants. it is so overly broad that organizations that place water in remote areas of the desert or provide a pregnant mother a safe place to sleep would be ineligible for dhs funding. this bill is so overreaching, that it would force the american red cross---- the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i yield an additional 1 minute to the gentleman from mississippi. mr. thompson of mississippi. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman for yielding me extra time. this bill is so overreaching that it would force the american red cross to verify every person's immigration status before providing lifesaving services following a natural disaster. this is just inhumane. furthermore, h.r. 3602 is so poorly drafted that it would bar many u.s. citizens from boarding commercial flights. this bill sets requirements for forms of identification that can only be used through airport security, but the list does not include a driver's license from washington, d.c.; puerto rico; guam; or other u.s. territories. mr. speaker, this bill is too extreme. it is just brought here today to appease certain elements of the party. remote republicans must put an end to this chaos and dysfunction, and get back to serious legislating. vote ``no'' on this unworkable bill. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from ohio (mr. jordan), my good friend and chairman of the judiciary committee. mr. jordan. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman for yielding. mr. speaker, the democrats called this bill a joke. it is not a joke to put back in place the policies that worked. in fact, i would call that common sense. remember what happened on day 1 of the biden administration? they said we are going to get rid of the remain in mexico policy, we are going to stop building the wall, and when you get here, you will be released. well, who the heck would not come if that is the policy? that is exactly what has [[page h2552]] happened, and we are on pace to get to 12 million migrants entering the country in the biden administration. so this bill fixes those things. it says we are going to build the wall, provide money to do so. we are going to put back in place the remain in mexico policy, which worked. we are going to end this catch and release. guess what else it does? guess what else it does? it changes the way they are doing parole, the very program this administration put in that allowed the individual to be released into the country who killed laken riley. that is not a joke. that is good policy, policy that will help protect americans, policies that make common sense. so i appreciate the gentleman from arizona (mr. moore) for sponsoring this legislation, for managing it on the floor, and the judiciary committee who has worked on this, the republicans on the judiciary committee who have worked on this for a long time. this is not quite h.r. 2, but it is close, and it is the policies that need to happen. again, understand the magnitude of the problem. we are on pace to get to 12 million migrants coming in this country in a 4-year time span. that is what the biden administration has given us. everyone knows that is wrong. everyone knows the policies they have done intentionally, deliberately willfully on day 1 have been harmful to the country. democrats know it. republicans know it. independents know it. polling shows it all across the country. let us take a step in the direction of fixing it and pass this legislation. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the distinguished gentlewoman from washington (ms. jayapal), the ranking member of the subcommittee on immigration integrity, security, and enforcement. ms. jayapal. mr. speaker, i rise in strong opposition to this cruel, unworkable and inhumane modified version of the republican border bill h.r. 2. what is the point of this exercise? the majority could barely pass this legislation last year over bipartisan opposition, and now it is going to magically pass it in the house with a two-thirds majority. give me a break. that is not what is happening here. they say when someone shows you who they are, you should believe them the first time. well, the majority has shown us who they are on this issue over and over and over again. they consistently reject bipartisan solutions, including a bill that was drafted in the senate by the second most conservative republican senator. yet, the majority and republicans in the house and the senate decided to kill that bill. you know why? because donald trump said kill the bill because we want to keep immigration out there as an issue that does not get solved, does not have any solutions, but has some empty talking point messaging bills that continue to demonize immigrants and create xenophobia in a country that has depended on immigrants to build this country and continues to. republicans have said it out loud over and over again. they do not want solutions. they do not want to solve problems. they just want to preserve the issue for the election. this bill is going nowhere. let us just be clear about that. the situation at the border is directly linked to the fact that the legal immigration system has been left in chaos because it has not been modernized in 30 years to meet the needs of this country. who has stopped that modernization? republicans have stopped it over and over again; when the legal process is so backed up that it takes decades for legal residents to get their children into the country, when employers cannot simply get the workers that they need to hire approved because there is a backlog of 2 million people who have not been processed or when we have so few immigration judges that asylum seekers wait for over 8 years to get their cases heard. the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentlewoman has expired. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i yield an additional 30 seconds to the gentlewoman from washington. ms. jayapal. mr. speaker, when asylum seekers wait 8 years to get their cases heard, then, yes, people turn to unscrupulous actors, including cartels, who promise them get in by going to the border. the only people talking about the open border and encouraging people to come across the border are republicans who continue to put that message out there. are we looking for solutions, mr. speaker? no, we are here debating a bill that has no chance of becoming law and is an empty messaging bill that does absolutely nothing to reform our outdated immigration system. let us get back to governing. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from texas (mr. roy), my friend from another border state. mr. roy. mr. speaker, i thank my friend from alabama for yielding. the gentlewoman is right, in part, in that we are here for two reasons. yes, this bill will not become law--there is no question about that-- and it will not become law for two reasons. the first reason is that our democratic colleagues refuse to address the crisis at the border, and in fact, want to perpetuate it, encourage it, and cause more of it. the second reason it is not going to become law is because republicans continue to campaign on securing the border and then refuse to use any leverage to actually secure the border. that is the reason; those two reasons right there. that is why this will not become law. let us be very clear with what we are dealing with here right now. we know the numbers. we can talk about the numbers, the 7 million that have been released into the country, the 2 million plus got-aways, the extent to which we have had a thousand pounds of fentanyl pouring across our border every month for the last 6 months, the 24,000 chinese nationals, the 85 percent of whom are adult single individuals that have come across this border since october 1, which is more than the entirety of fiscal year 2023, and certainly more than the 381 in the last year when the policies of president trump were in place the reality is that we are being put in danger. the american people are getting killed. laken riley is dead because of policies of the biden administration, specifically the parole policies that release people into our country to kill americans. that is what has been happening. yet, we are going to do nothing about it. we have legislation right now that would fix the problem in significant part. h.r. 2, we passed it a year ago. it is a great bill. i support the bill. i support what is in it. it changes the policies, frankly policies that president obama and jeh johnson asked us to change, like tvpra and flores. it changes the policies of abuse of parole and asylum by this administration. we should get it signed into law. the only way to force democrats to do it is to use leverage, and we are not going to. despite the fact that the speaker of the house repeatedly has said in january at the border, a trip i did not take because i knew full well what would happen, it would be a show trip. that is exactly the truth. if president biden wants a supplemental spending bill focused on national security, it better begin with defending america's national security. we wanted to get the border closed and secured first. he said in a letter in december, supplemental ukraine funding is dependent upon enactment of transformative change to our nation's border security laws. well, here we are today with a sham vote. let me be very clear, the people saying that we stopped h.r. 2 in the rules committee and did not allow it to get connected to or allowed to be attached to the ukraine bill, they are lying. that is not true. it was a separate rule, a separate vote designed as cover, cover for republicans to try to vote for a ukraine funding bill without securing the border of the united states. yes, i do agree with that point, that is the truth. {time} 1145 mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the distinguished gentleman from new york (mr. suozzi). mr. suozzi. mr. roy, the histrionics and the hyperbole are not working. you said so yourself. it is not working. it is not working. the bottom line is that we face issues that are very serious in our country, including the border. there is a crisis there, and we have to address it by doing what we are doing today and tomorrow related to the foreign aid bill. [[page h2553]] we have to work together. we have to find compromise. we have to find bipartisan solutions. every problem we face in our country is complicated, and you cannot solve complicated problems in an environment of fear and anger. people have to sit down and work with each other. i know mr. moore is a very good man. there are a lot of good people on the republican side as well as the democratic side. let us work together to solve these very serious issues we face in our country. we had a bipartisan solution by one of the most ethical, honest, hardworking conservative republicans in the united states senate, james lankford. we did not go forward with that bipartisan bill because president trump and others said that we do not want to give biden the victory, that we want to campaign on the chaos. the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i yield an additional 1 minute to the gentleman from new york. mr. suozzi. mr. speaker, they said we do not want to go forward on that bill because we want to campaign on the chaos, and we do not want to give victory to the democrats. it is not a victory for biden or for the democrats. it is a victory for the united states of america. mr. speaker, for us to move forward as a country, we have to work together. i see the people up here in the gallery. people watch television, and they read the newspaper. they are sick of this. they do not want us fighting with each other. they do not want us with the histrionics and the hyperbole. they want us to sit down and negotiate a settlement. h.r. 2 was tried before. it did not work. let us say you get everything you want. let us say trump gets elected. let us say that you win the house, the senate. i do not want that to happen, obviously, but let us say you get everything you want. you will not get enough votes in the senate. you will still have to negotiate a bipartisan compromise. people have to learn to get back to the basics of legislating, negotiating, and working together to solve the problems that the people of america demand that we solve. the speaker pro tempore. members are reminded to direct their remarks to the chair, and the chair would remind members that the rules do not allow references to persons in the gallery. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i yield 1\1/2\ minutes to the gentleman from arizona (mr. biggs), my friend. mr. biggs. mr. speaker, i will say this about the gentleman from new york (mr. nadler), that he is right on some points, but he is wrong on some points, as well. one of them is this: this bill gives money to the states to deal with the calamity that has been caused by the biden administration. mr. speaker, years ago, janet napolitano, who was in the biden administration in the same position that secretary mayorkas is in, demanded that the federal government pay for the damages caused by illegal migration at that time. she understood. just like katie hobbs, who is the current democratic governor of arizona, says, we have to have resources. please understand that you do not understand what is going on on the border. i will say one thing, that my friend from new york is correct that this is a show vote. h.r. 2 has been sitting in the senate. it should have passed. it would have taken care of 90 percent of the problems on the border. i know. i wrote most of those provisions, along with my friend, chip roy. i will tell you this: if we do not pass this, do not come to us if you are living in new york and say you are in trouble because you have perpetuated it. mr. speaker, this is the time to pass this piece of legislation. the process has been crappy, but this is the time to pass this legislation because it has to be done. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from pennsylvania (mr. perry), my friend. mr. perry. mr. speaker, duplicity. this is a lie. it is a deceit. it is trickery. it is chicanery. it is a fraud. it is a swindle. it is a scam. by design, mr. speaker, this is a pig in a poke. you do not even get the pig, though. you just get the bag. we told everybody that we are going to do border security and attach it to this bill, that this is all going to go to the senate, and then the president is going to sign it. that is not going to happen. border security is not in here. this is a separate bill designed to fail. you are getting a box sent to you in the mail that says, ``border security.'' if you are laken riley's parents, if you are kate steinle's parents, you are getting a box that says, ``border security.'' you open it up, and there is nothing in it. you are supposed to believe that we are doing something here, mr. speaker, but in reality, we are just tricking you and swindling the american people again. this is an abomination. mr. speaker, i am going to vote for the bill, but i want everybody to know it is a sham. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from louisiana (mr. scalise). mr. scalise. mr. speaker, i rise in strong support of this bill. mr. speaker, for years now, this house republican majority--and before we were a majority--has been calling on president biden to secure america's border. we have been trying to engage president biden in a negotiation to fix the problem. we put together legislation, and h.r. 2 has been mentioned by many, many people, the strongest border security bill that has passed congress. it has been over in the senate since last year, and they continue to ignore it because they have chosen to ignore the problem. you saw it play out just days ago in the senate when we sent over articles of impeachment for secretary mayorkas, who has failed miserably in his job of protecting america's homeland. that is his job. he is the homeland security secretary, and you have seen him here on capitol hill testifying that our border is secure. it would be laughable if it was not so insulting to millions of americans who know that is a lie. our border is not secure. in fact, since joe biden took office and took actions to open up our border, we have seen millions come across. is it 8 million? is it 10 million? the number we know is at least that high, if not higher. we know people on the terrorist watch list have come into our country because we have caught some of them, but we have not caught all of them. we have seen thousands of chinese nationals of military age coming into our country. do you think they are coming in here to help be a part of the american dream or coming to undermine it? we know the answer to that question, too, which is why we continue to press our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, our colleagues in the senate, and of course joe biden in the white house to get serious about this issue, but they refuse to. we are not going to let this go. we are going to continue to bring this up. mr. ciscomani brought this bill forward, and we will continue this debate. if president biden wants to ignore it, he knows, and the american people know, that president biden has the legal authority today through executive action to secure the border because they watched him use that same executive action to open the border. he ended remain in mexico, which we restore in this bill. he mandated catch and release on our border patrol agents, who want to secure our border. we talked to them. we have embedded with them. many of us have gone down to the border and embedded with our border patrol agents. mr. speaker, they will tell you what is wrong. the things that are needed to fix and secure the border are in this bill, but president biden does not want to fix it. he knows he can fix it with a pen today. he has chosen not to because the far-left elements, the radical elements of his party, want an open border, and they are clear about it. the president tries to act like he wants to secure the border, but then [[page h2554]] when it comes time to actually negotiate, he is nowhere to be found. ultimately, the voters of this country are going to have a say in november. do they want a secure border or not? they have a clear choice. when donald trump was president, we had a secure border. he took those steps. mexico did not want remain in mexico to be the policy at the time. that was asylum, by the way, which is what we are really talking about. it was president trump who went back to mexico and said: either you are going to agree to this policy--it is a negotiation between two countries--or there are going to be consequences. he laid out those consequences. lo and behold, mexico saw the light. mexico recognized it made a lot more sense to agree to that policy with president trump than to suffer the consequences, so we got remain in mexico. it started to solve the problem, and then he ended catch and release. he was building the wall. we funded this when we were a republican majority working with president trump. we funded construction of the wall, and hundreds of miles of wall were being built. joe biden comes into office, and on day one, he mandated the end, the halt, of that construction of that wall. the wall was working, and joe biden knows it. he ended it because he wanted the border open. step by step, action by action, joe biden has opened the border. he refuses to negotiate with us on fixing the problem, but we are not going to walk away from this. we are going to continue to force this issue, to bring votes to the floor, to press the senate to take this up. at the end of the day, if joe biden still wants to continue to block this, still wants to continue to keep the border open, the voters are going to have the ultimate say in november, and i do not think he is going to like the answer. he could do something about it right now. he refuses to. ultimately, the people of this country will have a say if joe biden will not work with us, but we are going to continue to push it. mr. speaker, i urge adoption of this piece of legislation that is so important to our national security. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, the hypocrisy in this chamber is so thick, you could cut it with a knife. mr. scalise says h.r. 2 was sent to the senate, and the senate ignores the issue. the senate did not ignore the issue. the senate negotiated, as was mentioned before, a very, very tough immigration bill--the toughest ever negotiated--by senator lankford, whose reputation is the second-most conservative republican in the senate. it did not pass. why? because former president trump said: do not pass anything. do not pass h.r. 2. do not pass the senate bill. i want an issue. i do not want this issue solved. i do not want a solution. i want an issue for the campaign. that is what the president said. congressman nehls got up and said the same thing. he said: why should we give a win to a democrat? so do not tell me that anyone is serious about h.r. 2. they are not. h.r. 2 is so draconian, the senate would not give it more than 32 votes. we know that. we know that h.r. 2 is a fiction in the senate. we know that the senate negotiated a very strong bill, but that bill could not advance because former president trump said he did not want it. he does not want anything to pass on this subject. so do not tell me that the republicans want a strong immigration bill and that the democrats want open borders. nobody wants open borders. mr. speaker, there is something else. the republicans rightly decry the catch-and-release policy, where someone claims asylum and is then released into the country for years until a trial date comes up to decide whether that asylum claim is valid and should be granted or whether the person should be deported. that really is intolerable, but president biden proposed a solution. the solution is very simple. he proposed an appropriation--i forget the amount--but an appropriation that would be sufficient so that those trials would be held in a matter of weeks, not years. if someone claimed asylum, he has a right to claim it. he has a right to an adjudication. the adjudication would take place in several weeks. if the person's case was valid, asylum would be granted. if the person's claim was not granted, he would be swiftly deported. you would not have what they call this invasion. it is not an invasion. this country is composed of people who came through immigration. in the 1900s, there were 10,000 a day. they created the current united states, probably the ancestors of most of the people in this country. immigrants are not a curse. they are a blessing. we need them for our economy, but we need a legal system. the legal system can only occur if the adjudications can occur quickly. the president proposed the means of doing that, and the republicans rejected that. they rejected that. they rejected the tough bill in the senate because president trump said: i do not want a solution. i want an issue for the campaign. {time} 1200 mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from texas (ms. jackson lee). ms. jackson lee. mr. speaker, i thought we would come here today and have a reasoned opportunity to address this question. let me be very clear. i have been in this body long enough to say that we have had a time where members have been here and we have had control of the border, in the interpretation that my republicans might say. we have had a flow of immigrants. we have had processes, and we have had challenges. we have spoken to the issue of providing funding for these challenges. here is what the issue is. the issue is that we have a past president who sees in his jurisdiction and career to block the flow of immigrants who are building and continuing to work with us in working on this nation. they come from ukraine. they may come from israel. they may come from palestine. they may come from taiwan. the speaker pro tempore (mr. newhouse). the time of the gentlewoman has expired. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i yield an additional 1 minute to the gentlewoman from texas. ms. jackson lee. mr. speaker, those individuals need processes and they need funding. we will not even give them war funding. as a member of the homeland security committee, i can tell you that the issue is that we are not bringing groups together who are fleeing persecution, which is what we are seeing in the individuals coming to the country now. they are fleeing persecution, and we want to reject-- we want to reject the funding. when i was on the homeland security committee, we did not do that. we provided for the ngos. it is shameful for us to think that we can live in this country and reject the ngos, the nongovernmental entities, who are helping those who are in need. that is how we did our work. when we did our work, we would be able to solve the problems. those problems would be helping ngos. those problems would be making sure that we gave dollars to the agencies like catholic charities. can anyone believe that we do not give money to catholic charities anymore? the call that we have today, mr. speaker, and to my good friend, the whip of the house, working with our whip, the honorable katherine clark---- the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentlewoman has expired. ms. jackson lee.--is that we need to work to help those who are most desperate and most poor---- the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentlewoman has expired. ms. jackson lee.--to be able to make a difference. we are not doing that. we are rejecting that. we need to help this nation. we are not doing that. the speaker pro tempore. the gentlewoman is no longer recognized. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i am prepared to close, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time for closing. if house republicans were serious about addressing the situation at the [[page h2555]] border, they would work with democrats on bipartisan legislation that could actually become law, as they did in the senate. time and again, republicans have proven that they want the issue more than they want solutions. here we are again taking up virtually the same draconian bill as before, knowing that if it actually passes the house, it will surely go nowhere in the senate. in a congress that has broken records for its chaos, dysfunction, and lack of accomplishments, this debate is one more for the record books. mr. speaker, i urge members to oppose this cruel and inhumane bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i yield myself the balance of my time for closing. we had sheriff daniels in the judiciary committee a few months ago now, and he said he had never seen the border as secure as it was in 2018 and never as broken as it is today. our colleagues across the aisle often want to set the building on fire and then fund the fire department. we have solutions to the problem on the southern border. we are not trying to make this a political issue. it is an issue of our time. the american people see it. mr. speaker, i urge passage of h.r. 3602, and i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from alabama (mr. moore) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 3602, as amended. the question was taken. the speaker pro tempore. in the opinion of the chair, two-thirds being in the affirmative, the ayes have it. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this motion will be postponed. ____________________