[congressional record volume 162, number 94 (tuesday, june 14, 2016)] [house] [page h3759] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] academy appointees the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from florida (mr. jolly) for 5 minutes. mr. jolly. mr. speaker, i rise this morning to recognize a group of remarkable young people from pinellas county, florida, who have excelled among their peers and answered the call to duty to serve their fellow americans. these young men and women have tested and proven themselves academically, athletically, and physically, and have demonstrated the leadership skills necessary to now be offered appointments to one of our united states service academies. it is an honor to recognize these young men and women from florida's 13th congressional district today. receiving appointments to attend the u.s. military academy at west point are: elizabeth brown-worthington of gulfport, florida, a graduate of boca ciega high school; andrew buck of tierra verde, florida, a graduate of saint petersburg catholic high school; sean mcclair of seminole, florida, a graduate of osceola fundamental high school and the u.s. military academy preparatory school; tyler mitchiner of clearwater, florida, a graduate of palm harbor university and the u.s. military academy preparatory school; william moorhead of clearwater, florida, a graduate of clearwater central catholic high school; patrick prior of saint petersburg, florida, a graduate of osceola fundamental high school; john rusnak of seminole, florida, a graduate of saint petersburg catholic high school. receiving appointments from pinellas county to attend the u.s. naval academy in annapolis are: connor price of safety harbor, florida, a graduate of palm harbor university high school and the u.s. naval academy preparatory school; jared price of safety harbor, florida, a graduate of palm harbor university high school and the u.s. naval academy preparatory school; zack quilty of saint petersburg, florida, a graduate of jesuit high school; and ethan singer of clearwater, florida, a graduate of countryside high school. receiving appointments to attend the u.s. air force academy from pinellas county, florida are: brian brown of safety harbor, florida, a graduate of countryside high school; dalton collins of largo, florida, a graduate of admiral farragut academy and the u.s. air force academy preparatory school; joseph gannaio of clearwater, florida, a graduate of calvary christian high school; thomas ``trey'' walker of saint petersburg, florida, a graduate of saint petersburg high school. receiving appointments to attend the u.s. merchant marine academy from pinellas county, florida, are: jackson misner of tampa, florida, a graduate of h.b. plant high school; and sofia tucker of navarre, florida, a graduate of navarre high school. finally, receiving an appointment to attend the u.s. coast guard academy is olivia suski of seminole, florida, a graduate of seminole high school and the marion military institute. these future cadets and midshipmen that we recognize today will be the future leaders of our military forces and our merchant marine. i wish them godspeed in the challenges of their summer training and the academic years to follow. these young people represent the best of america, and we each look forward to witnessing their future success and their service to country. we, the house of representatives, can have great confidence in our nation's future as we entrust it to these appointees and those of my colleagues here in congress. ____________________