[congressional record volume 162, number 23 (tuesday, february 9, 2016)] [house] [pages h634-h637] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] 9/11 memorial act mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 3036) to designate the national september 11 memorial located at the world trade center site in new york city, new york, as a national memorial, and for other purposes, as amended. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 3036 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``9/11 memorial act''. sec. 2. definitions. for purposes of this act: (1) eligible entity.--the term ``eligible entity'' means a nonprofit organization as defined in section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986 (26 u.s.c. 501(c)(3)) in existence on the date of enactment of this act. (2) map.--the term ``map'' means the map titled ``national september 11 memorial proposed boundary'', numbered 903/ 128928, and dated june 2015. (3) national september 11 memorial.--the term ``national september 11 memorial'' means the area approximately bounded by fulton, greenwich, liberty and west streets as generally depicted on the map. (4) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of the interior. sec. 3. designation of memorial. (a) designation.--the national september 11 memorial is hereby designated as a national memorial. (b) map.--the map shall be available for public inspection and kept on file at the appropriate office of the secretary. (c) effect of designation.--the national memorial designated under this section shall not be a unit of the national park system and the designation of the national memorial shall not be construed to require or authorize federal funds to be expended for any purpose related to the national memorial except as provided under section 4. sec. 4. competitive grants for certain memorials. (a) competitive grants.--subject to the availability of appropriations, the secretary may award a single grant per year through a competitive process to an eligible entity for the operation and maintenance of any memorial located within the united states established to commemorate the events of and honor-- (1) the victims of the terrorist attacks on the world trade center, the pentagon, and united airlines flight 93 on september 11, 2001; and (2) the victims of the terrorist attack on the world trade center on february 26, 1993. (b) availability.--funds made available under this section shall remain available until expended. (c) criteria.--in awarding grants under this section, the secretary shall give greatest weight in the selection of eligible entities using the following criteria: (1) experience in managing a public memorial that will benefit the largest number of visitors each calendar year. (2) experience in managing a memorial of significant size (4 acres or more). (3) successful coordination and cooperation with federal, state, and local governments in operating and managing the memorial. (4) ability and commitment to use grant funds to enhance security at the memorial. (5) ability to use grant funds to increase the numbers of economically disadvantaged visitors to the memorial and surrounding areas. (d) summaries.--not later than 30 days after the end of each fiscal year in which an eligible entity obligates or expends any part of a grant under this section, the eligible entity shall prepare and submit to the secretary and congress a summary that-- (1) specifies the amount of grant funds obligated or expended in the preceding fiscal year; (2) specifies the purpose for which the funds were obligated or expended; and (3) includes any other information the secretary may require to more effectively administer the grant program. (e) sunset.--the authority to award grants under this section shall expire on the date that is 7 years after the date of the enactment of this act. the speaker pro tempore (mr. pittenger). pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from new jersey (mr. macarthur) and the gentleman from arizona (mr. grijalva) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from new jersey. general leave mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to include extraneous material on the bill under consideration. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from new jersey? there was no objection. mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i was working in new york city in the fall of 2001 when terrorists tore a hole in our skyline and nearly 3,000 americans lost their lives. like many others, i lost people that i knew. for many, they lost their dearest loved ones--their soulmate, mother, father, brother, sister, children, child, friend. all of us were moved by stories of heroism that followed that event-- hundreds of firefighters and police and other first responders who gave their own lives to save others. in the months that followed, i remember coming around that site every morning as i went to work because i could not take the tunnel anymore. it was closed. i would take the ferry from new york to new jersey. we would come around the tip of manhattan. every morning as we passed the world trade center site, a hush would fall on that ferry boat, and people would ponder what happened there. that went on as autumn turned into winter and winter turned into spring, month after month, as we watched the seemingly endless restoration of that tragic site. mr. speaker, on september 11, 2011--10 years later--the national september 11 memorial opened. it was erected to remember those who fell, to recognize the endurance of the survivors, to honor the bravery of those who risked their lives, and often lost their lives, to save others, and, above all, to remember the power of our free nation to overcome evil with good. it stands as a reminder to every generation that we must never forget and we must never falter. mr. speaker, private citizens with deep concern erected that memorial. i applaud them for their good work. but now it is our part to preserve and protect this hallowed ground and to answer this national tragedy with national support. the national 9/11 memorial at the world trade center act recognizes this site as a national memorial. it provides for funding for security and operations. i want to thank the many who have endorsed this bill. eighty-two members of this chamber have cosponsored it. police organizations have gotten behind it, including the national association of police organizations and the fraternal order of police, veterans organizations, including the iraq and afghanistan vets of america, governor chris christie of new jersey, governor andrew cuomo of new york, and, most importantly, nearly a dozen family and friend support groups of those that were most deeply impacted by 9/11. private donors and concerned citizens have done their part at this site, and they continue to. but now it is our solemn duty, i believe, to honor the fallen and to protect the living. i urge my colleagues to pass the national 9/11 memorial at the world trade center act. i reserve the balance of my time. mr. grijalva. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. [[page h635]] this bill, as we know, designates the 9/11 memorial at the world trade center as the national september 11 memorial and authorizes a grant program of up to $25 million per year for the next 7 years to support the operation and the maintenance of the memorial. the bill was amended at markup to make the grant program available to other september 11 memorials located in the united states. money for the grant program will be subject to appropriation and come out of the overall budget of the department of interior. i want to thank and congratulate my colleague from new york, representative nadler, as the lead democratic cosponsor. he has diligently guided this bill through the legislative process. it is because of his hard work and advocacy that it has come this far. september 11 both rattled and united this country like few other events in our history. we still live with the repercussions, and the memorial is a fitting tribute and a solemn reminder. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from california (mr. calvert). mr. calvert. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of the national 9/ 11 memorial at the world trade center act. the events of september 11 continue to stir emotions for americans when we think about that day's tragic losses, remarkable acts of bravery, and the stark reminders that life is precious and evil is real. as a nation, we have pledged to ``never forget'' what happened on september 11, and today, by passing this legislation, we can put our actions behind that sentiment. 2016 marks the 75th anniversary of pearl harbor and the 15th anniversary of 9/11. just as the uss arizona provides a place for future generations to understand where--and more importantly how and why--we were attacked in 1941, the national september 11 memorial gives americans a place to understand the tragedy of that day and ongoing sacrifices of the united states armed forces. indeed, december 7 and september 11 are now two dates that will live in infamy. {time} 1700 i thank my colleague, tom macarthur, for introducing this legislation, and i thank everyone from the national september 11th memorial and museum for all of their hard work. i have been to the memorial and have felt the incredibly emotional effect it has had on each visitor. unfortunately, many of our enemies see this symbol of our nation's strength and resolve as a target, and, as such, the memorial requires a high level of security in order to keep its over 6 million annual visitors safe. this legislation ensures the memorial will receive the support it needs to provide a safe experience for every visitor who passes through, whether he be his holiness, pope francis, or whether he be the young schoolchild who was not yet been born on september 11, 2001. i would like to take a moment to recognize a very special person, rob o'neill, a former member of seal team 6, who is best known for his actions in the raid that killed osama bin laden. the 9/11 memorial has a special place in his heart, and he has been a strong advocate for this bill. he has told me and others that the site is important to him and to his fellow special operators. it helps signify the cause for which they were fighting. in fact, the shirt he wore on the mission is on display at the museum, along with other artifacts from 9/11 and from the many years since, chronicling how americans have pulled together to support each other, to secure our nation, and to re-dedicate ourselves to liberty and justice. so i thank mr. o'neill for his service and for his sacrifice. once again, i convey my support for this bill, and i encourage all of my colleagues to pass the 9/11 memorial act. i thank tricia evans and ian foley, who are on my staff, for their hard work on this bill. mr. grijalva. mr. speaker, i would be remiss if i did not extend to representative macarthur my appreciation for his leadership and for bringing the bill to this point as well. i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from new york (mr. nadler), whom i thank for his leadership and hard work in getting this bill to this point. mr. nadler. i thank the gentleman for yielding. mr. speaker, more than 14 years ago, two jet planes were deliberately crashed into the world trade center--killing thousands of innocent people. a third plane slammed into the pentagon, and a fourth plane, likely destined for this very capitol complex in which we now stand, was brought down by a group of courageous passengers in a field in shanksville, pennsylvania. as i do today, i represented ground zero--the world trade center area--on september 11, 2001. in the hours immediately after the attack, i left washington and took the last train back to my home in new york. i will never forget the moment i first saw the ravaged skyline of lower manhattan from the train windows. normally, on the train, while going between philadelphia and new york, i would look to see the first glimpse i could catch of the twin towers. now what you could see were not the twin towers but long, tall, billowing clouds of smoke that were going straight up and then were stretching down the jersey shore. the twin towers had been replaced by the brutal glow of raging fires and of black, billowing smoke. the train that left at 10 of the clock arrived at 6 p.m. we had been held up in baltimore while they walked the tracks, looking for bombs. coming out of penn station at 6 of the clock was like a scene from the movie ``on the beach'' for those who remember that movie. nothing was moving. the city at 33rd street and eighth avenue seemed completely empty--no people, no cars, no buses. there was nothing moving as if it were completely depopulated. to get home, i had to call a friend to come pick me up. when i went down to the world trade center the next morning, the scene was absolutely horrible. there was fire, smoke, debris, twisted metal, human remains--total devastation. yet, even then, there were signs of hope. firefighters, police, emergency medical technicians, ironworkers, and construction workers of all types rushed to ground zero from around the country to offer their help. messages of support and comfort flooded in from all 50 states. the american people were united and determined to help new york get back on its feet. the attack may have occurred in my district, but it was an attack on our nation as a whole, and we all recognized that. in the years since the attacks, america has acted as a nation to help rebuild new york and to support the responders, survivors, and families of the victims. last year, congress reauthorized the james zadroga 9/11 health and compensation act so as to provide health care and support the 33,000 responders and survivors who now live in all 50 states and in 429 congressional districts. by passing a permanent health program and reauthorizing the victim compensation fund, congress provided peace of mind for tens of thousands of brave americans. in addition to making our responders and survivors whole, congress invested billions of dollars to help rebuild lower manhattan. one world trade center now fills the hole that was left in our skyline when the towers fell, and businesses that were shuttered after the attack are reopened and are thriving. in what was once the shadow of the towers, there now stands a comprehensive museum that is dedicated to sharing the stories of september 11th and the bravery of those who risked everything to protect their fellow americans on that day and on the days following. in place of the smoking hole that congressman macarthur and i saw day after day in lower manhattan, there now exists a somber and inspiring memorial. it is a site of remembrance and hope--a place for every american to come and reflect as to what happened on that september morning and to renew our promise to never forget the events of that day. it is a national memorial for a national tragedy. that is why i am pleased to cosponsor the legislation, introduced by my colleague from new jersey, to provide federal recognition and support for the memorial. this legislation will help ensure the memorial continues to provide a sacred and inspiring spot for generations to come. [[page h636]] i appreciate the bipartisan support from the members of the natural resources committee and from the house leadership in bringing this bill to the floor today. i look forward to working with my colleagues on the house appropriations committee every year to ensure that the national 9/11 memorial and museum receives appropriate levels of funding. i will also work with my colleagues to maintain open communications with the department of the interior to ensure the money is spent wisely and achieves our shared goal of ensuring the memorial remains a spot of reflection and peace and is accessible to millions of visitors every day. i urge my colleagues to support this bill and provide the recognition and support this memorial deserves. mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i acknowledge representative nadler, and i thank him for his support in this process. i yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from new york (mr. donovan). mr. donovan. mr. speaker, 15 years ago this september 11th, our country suffered the most deadly and devastating attack since its birth. terrorists chose the twin towers because they stood proud and they stood tall. they stood as symbols of the raw power of people free to pursue their dreams, to live their values, and to practice their faiths. when the towers fell, they took americans from every corner of our nation; and when the president stood atop a fire engine and spoke through a bullhorn to console a broken nation, he spoke to every man, woman, and child in our united states who was suffering and was saddened by an unimaginable act of hate. heroes from all over the country came to lower manhattan to sift through the rubble and pick up the pieces. it was a site of national tragedy, a site of national heroism, and it must also be the site of a national memorial. it is only fitting that the 9/11 memorial receives proper funding just like every other national memorial. it is sacred ground, and it must be maintained accordingly. also, annual security costs run into the millions of dollars as the site remains a top terrorist target. mr. speaker, terrorists may have attacked our country at three locations that day, but they also attacked the spirit inside all of us. i encourage every member of this body to vote for this legislation and to visit the 9/11 memorial and museum to see what i and representative nadler see every day. i thank representative macarthur for introducing this legislation, and i again thank--always--the heroes of that fateful day. mr. grijalva. mr. speaker, i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from new jersey (mr. pascrell). mr. pascrell. i thank the ranking member. mr. speaker, i rise in strong support of h.r. 3036, the national 9/11 memorial at the world trade center act, which was introduced by my friends congressmen tom macarthur and jerry nadler--two sentinels of americans' liberty and freedom. president bush traveled to the site with democrats and republicans. i have never seen in my experience here no other effort close to it of how we were united. we accomplished so much when we were united, and we learned to respect each other even more. on that day, our lives, our country, and the world changed forever. in the aftermath, americans came together for a common purpose--to rescue, to rebuild, and to remember those we had lost--friends and neighbors, many of them. they were from all faiths, all persuasions. this memorial and the museum at the world trade center were constructed so that we would never forget those brothers and sisters, children and parents, cousins and colleagues. we called them that at the time; yet the further we get from 9/11 we very seldom refer to ``sisters'' and ``brothers'' except for our relatives and our brave first responders who perished during one of the darkest moments in our nation's history. ensuring this memorial site will be here for years to come will give millions of people around the world the opportunity to pay tribute to those who were lost and to find inspiration in how our nation has recovered. as a proud supporter of our national park service, i know it will make sure the site remains a sacred place of healing and of hope as a national memorial. as a result, mr. speaker, i urge the swift passage of h.r. 3036 in order to solidify the memorial's standing, to honor the memories of those we lost, and to ensure future generations can learn about that tragic day. mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, may i inquire as to how much time i have remaining? the speaker pro tempore. the gentleman from new jersey has 11\1/2\ minutes remaining. mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman from new york (ms. stefanik). ms. stefanik. mr. speaker, i rise in support of h.r. 3036, the 9/11 memorial act. i thank my colleague, mr. macarthur, for his leadership on this incredibly important issue. fifteen years ago on september 11th, every american will remember where he was when the horrifying news broke of these terrorist attacks. mr. speaker, as the youngest member currently serving in congress, i was in my high school english class when the horrible news was shared with my classmates from our teacher. i remember my schoolmates, crying, who could not get ahold of their older siblings, of their aunts and uncles, of their cousins who worked in the world trade center. on that horrifying day when terrorists attacked our nation, we also saw true acts of heroism. as the workers of the world trade center were running out to escape, our first responders were running up the stairs to save their fellow americans. strangers helped fellow strangers escape the buildings. new yorkers helped others walk miles home to get to their families. {time} 1715 new yorkers will never forget the horrifying attacks. this nation will never forget these horrifying attacks. the 9/11 memorial is truly hallowed ground. i urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this legislation. mr. grijalva. mr. speaker, i have no further speakers. i urge passage of this legislation. this legislation, this 9/11 national memorial, no matter what corner of this great nation of ours we are from, we have a shared legacy here. that shared legacy is about sacrifice, heroism, and indeed loss as well. we have a shared future from this memorial about determination, resilience, and the very nature of this nation to be hopeful and to look forward. to one another, we have a shared responsibility. this memorial will remind us of that and keep that thought very much alive in all of us. again, let me congratulate and thank the sponsors of the legislation, mr. nadler and mr. macarthur, for their fine work and for bringing this before us today. i yield back the balance of my time. mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i appreciate the remarks of my colleagues. events like 9/11--and the world that it has brought us into--demand that we come together, and i am glad that we have done that on this bill. we have come together to honor the fallen and to protect the living. i urge my colleagues to join in making this the voice of this chamber as we vote. i yield back the balance of my time. mrs. maloney of new york. mr. speaker, i rise in strong support of h.r. 3036, the national 9/11 memorial at the world trade center act, and thank my colleagues reps. macarthur and nadler for their leadership to bring this bill to the house floor. in the aftermath of the september 11, 2001 attacks, congress has come together to rebuild new york and the pentagon and support the responders, survivors, and families of the victims. last year, we reauthorized the james zadroga 9/11 health and compensation act, making the health care program essential permanent and extending the victims compensation fund for an additional five years, with full funding. as a new yorker, the memory of 9/11 continues to evoke pain and sorrow--and the memorial at ground zero stirs these emotions like no other place. the dramatic reflecting pools are a sanctuary of calm within the bustle of lower manhattan and a moving tribute to the thousands of innocent americans lost in the attacks. this bill affirms our commitment to remember those lost on 9/11 by designating the site [[page h637]] a national memorial and enabling the memorial to access the federal support it needs for security and maintenance. the 9/11 memorial is now among new york's most popular sites, with over 23 million visitors since it opened in 2011. this designation will ensure that the site continues to welcome everyone who comes to remember those we have lost. ms. jackson lee. mr. speaker, as a senior member of the house committee on homeland security and the ranking member of the judiciary committee's subcommittee on crime, terrorism, homeland security, and investigations, i rise in support of h.r. 3036, the ``national 9/11 memorial at the world trade center act.'' this bill will designate the national september 11 memorial located at the world trade center site in new york city, new york, as a national memorial. h.r. 3036 authorizes the secretary of interior to award a grant in an amount not to exceed $25 million each fiscal year to the national september 11 memorial and museum at the world trade center foundation for the operation and maintenance of the memorial. finally, the bill requires the national september 11 memorial and museum to report annually to the interior secretary and congress on (1) the amount of grant funds expended; (2) the purpose for which the funds were used; and (3) any other information the secretary may require. as a member of the house committee on homeland security since its creation, and ranking member of the judiciary subcommittee on crime, terrorism and homeland security, i strongly support this resolution. i will never forget september 11, 2001, a day on which i stood on the east front steps of the capitol on september 11, along with 150 members of the house of representatives, singing ``god bless america.'' september 11, 2001 remains a tragedy that defines our nation's history since that fateful day for many reasons. this year marks the 15th anniversary of the september 11 attacks that killed 2,977 men, women, and children. at the world trade center site in lower manhattan, 2,753 people were killed when hijacked american airlines flight 11 and united airlines flight 175 were intentionally crashed in the north and south towers. of those who perished during the initial attacks and the subsequent collapses of the towers, 343 were new york city firefighters, another 23 were new york city police officers and 37 others were officers at the port authority. the victims ranged in age from two to 85 years. at the pentagon in washington, 184 people were killed when hijacked american airlines flight 77 crashed into the building. near shanksville, pennsylvania, 40 passengers and crew members aboard united airlines flight 93 died when the plane crashed into a field. it is believed that the hijackers crashed the plane in that location, rather than their unknown target, after the passengers and crew attempted to retake control of the flight. the act of those passengers to stop the hijackers likely saved the lives of thousands of their fellow americans that day. the heroic work done by the first responders who rushed into the burning twin towers and the pentagon saved lives. we will forever remember the first responders who lost their lives in the line of duty on september 11. this nation shall forever be grateful for the selfless sacrifice shown that day. that is why the national september 11 memorial and museum is so important. the national september 11 memorial at the world trade center remembers and honors the thousands of innocent lives lost during the september 11th attacks, and the attacks of february 26, 1993. this memorial is a testament to the triumph of human dignity over human depravity and affirms an unwavering commitment to the fundamental value of human life. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from new jersey (mr. macarthur) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 3036, as amended. the question was taken. the speaker pro tempore. in the opinion of the chair, two-thirds being in the affirmative, the ayes have it. mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to clause 8 of rule xx, further proceedings on this motion will be postponed. ____________________