[congressional record volume 163, number 116 (tuesday, july 11, 2017)] [house] [pages h5405-h5407] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] pascua yaqui tribe land conveyance act mr. lahood. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 1404) to provide for the conveyance of certain land inholdings owned by the united states to the tucson unified school district and to the pascua yaqui tribe of arizona. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 1404 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``pascua yaqui tribe land conveyance act''. sec. 2. definitions. for the purposes of this act, the following definitions apply: [[page h5406]] (1) district.--the term ``district'' means the tucson unified school district no. 1, a school district recognized as such under the laws of the state of arizona. (2) map.--the term ``map'' means the map titled `` `pascua yaqui tribe land conveyance act'', dated march 14, 2016, and on file and available for public inspection in the local office of the bureau of land management. (3) recreation and public purposes act.--the term ``recreation and public purposes act'' means the act of june 14, 1926 (43 u.s.c. 869 et seq.). (4) secretary.--the term ``secretary'' means the secretary of the interior. (5) tribe.--the term ``tribe'' means the pascua yaqui tribe of arizona, a federally recognized indian tribe. sec. 3. land to be held in trust. (a) parcel a.--subject to subsection (b) and to valid existing rights, all right, title, and interest of the united states in and to the approximately 39.65 acres of federal lands generally depicted on the map as ``parcel a'' are declared to be held in trust by the united states for the benefit of the tribe. (b) effective date.--subsection (a) shall take effect on the day after the date on which the district relinquishes all right, title, and interest of the district in and to the approximately 39.65 acres of land described in subsection (a). sec. 4. lands to be conveyed to the district. (a) parcel b.-- (1) in general.--subject to valid existing rights and payment to the united states of the fair market value, the united states shall convey to the district all right, title, and interest of the united states in and to the approximately 13.24 acres of federal lands generally depicted on the map as ``parcel b''. (2) determination of fair market value.--the fair market value of the property to be conveyed under paragraph (1) shall be determined by the secretary in accordance with the uniform appraisal standards for federal land acquisitions and the uniform standards of professional appraisal practice. (3) costs of conveyance.--as a condition of the conveyance under this subsection, all costs associated with the conveyance shall be paid by the district. (b) parcel c.-- (1) in general.--if, not later than 1 year after the completion of the appraisal required by paragraph (3), the district submits to the secretary an offer to acquire the federal reversionary interest in all of the approximately 27.5 acres of land conveyed to the district under recreation and public purposes act and generally depicted on the map as ``parcel c'', the secretary shall convey to the district such reversionary interest in the lands covered by the offer. the secretary shall complete the conveyance not later than 30 days after the date of the offer. (2) survey.--not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this act, the secretary shall complete a survey of the lands described in this subsection to determine the precise boundaries and acreage of the lands subject to the federal reversionary interest. (3) appraisal.--not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this act, the secretary shall complete an appraisal of the federal reversionary interest in the lands identified by the survey required by paragraph (2). the appraisal shall be completed in accordance with the uniform appraisal standards for federal land acquisitions and the uniform standards of professional appraisal practice. (4) consideration.--as consideration for the conveyance of the federal reversionary interest under this subsection, the district shall pay to the secretary an amount equal to the appraised value of the federal interest, as determined under paragraph (3). the consideration shall be paid not later than 30 days after the date of the conveyance. (5) costs of conveyance.--as a condition of the conveyance under this subsection, all costs associated with the conveyance, including the cost of the survey required by paragraph (2) and the appraisal required by paragraph (3), shall be paid by the district. sec. 5. gaming prohibition. the tribe may not conduct gaming activities on lands taken into trust pursuant to this act, either as a matter of claimed inherent authority, under the authority of any federal law, including the indian gaming regulatory act (25 u.s.c. 2701 et seq.), or under regulations promulgated by the secretary or the national indian gaming commission. sec. 6. water rights. (a) in general.--there shall be no federal reserved right to surface water or groundwater for any land taken into trust by the united states for the benefit of the tribe under this act. (b) state water rights.--the tribe retains any right or claim to water under state law for any land taken into trust by the united states for the benefit of the tribe under this act. (c) forfeiture or abandonment.--any water rights that are appurtenant to land taken into trust by the united states for the benefit of the tribe under this act may not be forfeited or abandoned. (d) administration.--nothing in this act affects or modifies any right of the tribe or any obligation of the united states under public law 95-375. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from illinois (mr. lahood) and the gentleman from california (mr. panetta) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from illinois. general leave mr. lahood. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous material on the bill under consideration. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from illinois? there was no objection. mr. lahood. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of h.r. 1404, the pascua yaqui tribe land conveyance act, sponsored by the gentleman from arizona (mr. grijalva), the ranking member on the national resources committee. h.r. 1404 would authorize a land exchange involving the tribe, the tucson unified school district, and the department of the interior. under the bill, a 39.65-acre parcel of land currently held by the district shall be placed in trust for the benefit of the tribe if the district relinquishes all right, title, and interest to it. a 13.24-acre parcel of land shall be sold by the u.s. to the district at fair market value, and a federal interest of 27.5 acres of land held by the district shall be cleared in exchange for the district paying the appraised value of the federal interest. the federal interest is a reversionary interest imposed on certain land patented to the district under the recreation and public purposes act of 1926. all transfers under the bill are subject to valid existing rights. gaming pursuant to the indian gaming regulatory act would be prohibited on lands taken into trust under the bill. this bill is substantively similar to the bill the house passed during the 114th congress. mr. speaker, i thank the sponsor. i urge adoption of the measure, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. panetta. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, this legislation represents the final part of a collaborative land agreement between the pascua yaqui tribe, located in southern arizona, and the tucson unified school district, tusd. h.r. 1404 will transfer a 40-acre parcel currently managed by tusd under the recreation and public purposes act into a trust for the tribe. two additional parcels of land will be transferred to the tusd, provided that the tusd pays fair market value so that it may better plan for the future needs of the school district in the areas near the tribe's reservation. i want to commend the gentleman from arizona (mr. grijalva), the ranking member and sponsor of the bill, not only for his leadership on the natural resources committee, but for bringing this legislation forward. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. lahood. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. panetta. mr. speaker, i yield as much time as he may consume to the gentleman from arizona (mr. grijalva). mr. grijalva. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman from california for yielding. mr. speaker, h.r. 1404, as was stated by my two colleagues, is a culmination of a longstanding land agreement between tucson unified school district and the pascua yaqui tribe. in the 113th congress, we finalized part of that agreement with the passage and signing of h.r. 507, which conveyed the two 10-acre parcels. both of my colleagues have stated the purpose of the legislation, the need for the legislation. the passage of this bill will complete the second part of that agreement, and both parties involved, as well as the surrounding communities, all see mutual benefit in this. mr. speaker, i hope that the bill is acted upon positively, that it passes. mr. speaker, i want to thank chairman bishop for his cooperation in working with our staff to bring this to the floor today, and i urge its adoption. mr. lahood. mr. speaker, i have no additional speakers, and i reserve the balance of my time. [[page h5407]] mr. panetta. mr. speaker, briefly, the bill is identical to h.r. 2009, which passed in the 114th congress by voice vote. that is why, as well as what we have heard today, i urge quick adoption of this legislation once again. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. lahood. mr. speaker, i urge adoption of this legislation, and i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from illinois (mr. lahood) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 1404. the question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the rules were suspended and the bill was passed. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. ____________________