[congressional record volume 162, number 29 (wednesday, february 24, 2016)] [house] [pages h860-h861] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] stop act the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from florida (mr. jolly) for 5 minutes. mr. jolly. mr. speaker, i rise today to talk about an important congressional reform initiative that i have introduced in this body. i have had the opportunity to study congress from virtually every angle. i graduated from college as a young intern who drove up here having never been north of tennessee. as my predecessor said and i shared: i never thought i would meet a member of congress, much less have the great opportunity and honor to be one. through virtually every staff role over the past 15 or 20 years, i have had a chance to study this body. there are a few experiences now, as a sitting member of congress, that i simply cannot accept. one of them--the most pressing one--is the amount of time that members of congress are expected or, in some cases, directed to spend on raising money. we all know it. every member of congress understands that you arrive with great expectations only to learn the obligation to spend time raising money. there is a quiet anger among many members about that. [[page h861]] it is not comfortable to talk about, frankly. this is one of the more uncomfortable speeches i will ever give in the well of this house. we must talk about it. because when does this become the expectation? this is an orientation slide for freshmen members of congress that was produced by one of the two major parties of this congress a few years back, suggesting that, as a member of congress, your first responsibility is 4 hours a day not in your office, but across the street in a call suite asking people for money, another 1 to 2 hours a day networking and raising money, and only 2 hours a day doing your job. members of congress might have a quiet anger, but the american people will have a very loud anger when they understand that we are not accomplishing things here because we are spending too much time raising money. let us turn that anger into resolve and change this body and change washington forever. former members of congress are happy to talk about this, retiring members who write confessions saying they spent 4,200 hours raising money, former majority leaders of the other body now writing a book lamenting how much time they spent raising money, a colleague of ours leaving this house calling fundraising the main business of congress. but what do they all have in common? they are all retiring or retired. why do not we do something about it, as sitting members of congress? why do not we fix this now when we have the opportunity instead of lamenting it when we are gone? this is why i have introduced what i call the stop act. it is very simple. it is 3 or 4 pages. every member of this body can read it before they vote on it. it simply prohibits direct solicitation of a campaign contribution by a sitting member of congress. state legislators in the state of florida and across the country are often prohibited from directly soliciting. there are 30 states where judges are elected, and they are prohibited from directly soliciting contributions. i want to say thank you to my colleagues who have cosponsored this. in just over 3 weeks, we have six cosponsors: mr. nolan of minnesota, mr. jones of north carolina, messrs. duffy and ribble of wisconsin, and messrs. mica and nugent from my state of florida. the message is very simple on this. it says to congress to get back to work. let us do our job, the job we were elected to do. we will never solve border security and immigration reform. we will never balance the budget. we will never address national security and foreign policy. we will never address tax reform if we have a part-time congress in a full-time world. in any other profession, if you spend 20 to 30 hours a week doing a job other than you are hired to do, you would be fired. but, in washington, we accept this as the political culture. many will say the issue is dark money, the issue is transparency. fine. we can have a campaign finance debate. but that is not what this is about. this is about congressional reform. i will close with this, mr. speaker. each one of us made a promise to roughly 700,000 people in the community from which we come and represent. we made a promise to do our job, not to ask them for money. we took an oath. we each took an oath, swearing to uphold and defend the constitution of the united states. the last line of our oath says: ``i will well and faithfully discharge the duties of this office on which i am about to enter.'' friends, we are not well and faithfully discharging the duties of this body when we are spending 20 hours a week asking people for money and not doing our job. we are not well and faithfully discharging the duties of this office when fundraising is the main business, when we have members missing votes to raise money, when the most important question sometimes among colleagues is not what legislation you are working on, but how much money you have raised. we are not well and faithfully executing the duties of this house when we are not doing our job. i stand here not to judge my colleagues. i stand here to try to change the system. let us restore credibility to this house. let us honor the greatness of this body with greatness of integrity, greatness of commitment, greatness of resolve. let us recognize the great calling of this body and the even greater calling of this nation. let us stand together today and change washington forever. friends, colleagues, i urge you, while you are here and before retiring and lamenting the amount of time you spent raising money, cosponsor the stop act. join me in this effort to change washington. ____________________