[congressional record volume 170, number 19 (thursday, february 1, 2024)] [house] [pages h369-h373] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] protect our communities from duis act mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, pursuant to house resolution 980, i call up the bill (h.r. 6976) to amend the immigration and nationality act to provide that aliens who have been convicted of or who have committed an offense for driving while intoxicated or impaired are inadmissible and deportable, and ask for its immediate consideration in the house. the clerk read the title of the bill. the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to house resolution 980, in lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the committee on the judiciary printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of rules committee print 118-22 is adopted and the bill, as amended, is considered read. the text of the bill, as amended, is as follows: h.r. 6976 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. short title. this act may be cited as the ``protect our communities from duis act''. sec. 2. inadmissibility and deportability related to driving while intoxicated or impaired. (a) inadmissibility.--section 212(a)(2) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1182(a)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(j) driving while intoxicated or impaired.--any alien who has been convicted of, who admits having committed, or who admits committing acts which constitute the essential elements of an offense for driving while intoxicated or impaired, as those terms are defined under the law of the jurisdiction where the conviction, offense, or acts constituting the essential elements of the offense occurred (including an offense for driving while under the influence of or impaired by alcohol or drugs), without regard to whether the conviction or offense is classified as a misdemeanor or felony under federal, state, tribal, or local law, is inadmissible.''. (b) deportability.--section 237(a)(2) of the immigration and nationality act (8 u.s.c. 1227(a)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``(g) driving while intoxicated or impaired.--any alien who has been convicted of an offense for driving while intoxicated or impaired, as those terms are defined under the law of the jurisdiction where the conviction occurred (including a conviction for driving while under the influence of or impaired by alcohol or drugs), without regard to whether the conviction is classified as a misdemeanor or felony under federal, state, tribal, or local law, is deportable.''. the speaker pro tempore. the bill, as amended, shall be debatable for 1 hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the committee on the judiciary or their respective designees. after 1 hour of debate, it shall be in order to consider the further amendment printed in part d of house report 118-362, if offered by the member designated in the report, which shall be considered read, shall be separately debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to a demand for a division of the question. the gentleman from alabama (mr. moore) and the gentleman from new york (mr. nadler) each will control 30 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from alabama (mr. moore). general leave mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their remarks and insert extraneous materials on h.r. 6976. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from alabama? there was no objection. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, every 45 minutes: that is how often someone in the united states dies in a crash involving an alcohol-impaired driver. in 2021 alone, there were 13,384 alcohol-impaired driving fatalities. in the same year, drunk driving crashes led to 400,000 injuries. those crashes do not discriminate. the victim could be me, it could be you, or it could be one of our family members. this issue hits close to home for me. there was a newlywed couple from my hometown of enterprise, alabama, named angel and jeremy seay. i knew them personally. angel and jeremy were riding a motorcycle together when, out of nowhere, an illegal alien under the influence of alcohol collided into the newlyweds with his pickup. their lives were cut dramatically short. sadly, tragedies like this are not uncommon across our country. consider this case from missouri. just 2 months ago, an illegal alien from honduras was sentenced for driving drunk at 100 miles per hour and killing a man. now, mr. speaker, if you listen to my democratic colleagues, you may think [[page h370]] that drunk driving is no big deal. in fact, at a judiciary committee markup in 2021, my democratic colleagues voted down three republican amendments that would have made certain aliens ineligible for green cards if they had 1, 2, or even 10 dui convictions. despite that, that should come as no surprise. in 2020, then-candidate joe biden said that illegal aliens with dui convictions should be allowed to stay in the united states. biden asserted that ice should not arrest aliens with drunk driving convictions because: you only arrest for the purpose of dealing with a felony that is committed, and i do not count drunk driving as a felony. candidate biden even called for ice officers to be fired if they arrested aliens without felony convictions. to president biden and my democratic colleagues, today we say: absolutely not. if you are a guest in this country and you drive drunk, you should be removed from our country, period. instead of hearing agreement on this from democrats, today we will hear these farfetched hypotheticals and accusations that this bill is cruel and too broad. instead of engaging in hypotheticals, let us again revisit the facts: drunk drivers are involved in 31 percent of all crash deaths in the country. on average, drunk driving has killed nearly 11,000 people in the united states every year from 2012 to 2021. yet, immigration laws do not explicitly make aliens inadmissible or removable if they drive drunk and recklessly break our laws. h.r. 6976 changes that, and it creates safer streets and safer communities for all of us. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support the protect our communities from duis act, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, this bill is just another page from the majority's tired old playbook of inventing perceived gaps in the law and providing overly broad legislation to fix them. duis are a serious problem. over 13,000 people died in alcohol impaired driving traffic deaths in 2021, and all of those deaths were preventable. however, instead of working on proven solutions like improving access to public transportation and ride-sharing programs so that people have an alternative to driving drunk, republicans are laying the blame for this problem at the feet of immigrants. let me be clear. no one here wants to see individuals who are true threats to public safety eligible for immigration benefits. however, our immigration laws already exclude public safety threats from being able to get visas or legally remain in the country. under our current laws, this includes those who have committed serious dui offenses. under the immigration and nationality act, a noncitizen who is convicted of or admits to committing a crime involving moral turpitude, or a cimt, is generally inadmissible. likewise, a noncitizen who is convicted of a cimt, where a sentence of 1 year or longer may be imposed, is deportable. there is substantial case law demonstrating that serious dui offenses are considered cimts under current law. dui where the maximum possible penalty is a year or more and where there is serious bodily harm; hit- and-runs; an aggravated dui; and a dui involving driving with knowledge of an invalid, suspended, or revoked license are all cimts and are, therefore, already deportable offenses. this means that under current law, the people who are drinking and driving and putting people at risk of harm are already removable. nonetheless, the majority is not satisfied with this. they want to deport everyone who has ever received any conviction for any dui offense. here is the problem with this approach: every state has a different standard for how they define and prosecute duis. some states will charge people with a dui even if they are not actually driving a car. for example, prosecutors in virginia convicted a man of dui who was inebriated and asleep in the driver's seat of his car with the keys in the ignition so he could listen to music in his driveway. this case, in which the driver never even left his driveway or even turned his car all the way on, went all the way to the virginia supreme court. we cannot rely on prosecutorial discretion in this type of case. under case law, the man in this case would not ultimately be subject to removal based on this conviction if he was a noncitizen. nevertheless, if this bill were to be enacted, such a conviction would lead to the deportation of even a longstanding green card holder. remember, mr. speaker, we are talking here about longstanding green card holders, not illegal aliens. these are people who entered the country legally, who may have been here for 20 or 30 years, who have american citizen spouses and children. if this bill were enacted, such a conviction of sleeping in your own car inebriated in your own driveway going nowhere would get you deported. if this bill fixed a serious gap in the law, i would be supportive. nevertheless, this bill does not do that. it puts people who are here legally at risk of removal for making even a minor mistake that harmed no one, all at a time when immigration courts have historic backlogs and the republicans are refusing to provide dhs with the resources it needs to enforce the laws currently on the books. this is purely for show, but i would expect nothing less from a party that has admitted they would rather wait to fix the problems in our immigration system so that president trump can preserve the issue for his campaign than actually work toward meaningful reform now. mr. speaker, i urge members to oppose this legislation, and i reserve the balance of my time. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, democrats want to pretend that this bill is extreme, cruel, and harsh, as if imposing consequences on aliens for breaking our laws is somehow unheard of. yet, guess who also bar drunk drivers entry into ports? canada. that is correct. in at least this one particular area, our liberal friends to the north get it right. of course they do because it just makes sense. mr. speaker, if you are a guest in our country, and you drive drunk or impaired, you should not be allowed to stay here as we wait for you to do it again or to kill or seriously injure someone. mr. speaker, let us pass h.r. 6976 today and make these sensible changes. mr. speaker, i yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from florida (mr. posey). mr. posey. mr. speaker, i thank the gentleman from alabama for yielding and for bringing forth this great bill to protect americans. over the last few days, i have heard more lies about the immigration crisis at our southern border than any other issue since obamacare. mr. speaker, you remember obamacare. we promised that you could keep your own insurance company, promised you can keep your own doctor, and promised it would cost less. these were all lies, but the lies about immigration are even greater this year. this week i heard a member across the aisle in an apparent theatric and disingenuous gesture of good will falsely refer to me as being his friend as he hurled lie after lie denigrating my colleagues and me. although i do have friends on the other side of the aisle, this is not my kind of friend. he hurled lie after lie and insult after insult as he theatrically appealed to those listening or watching on this house floor--which incidentally is against the rules of the house, and i am surprised the speaker did not call him out of order--as he referred to my colleagues and me as maga republican extremists. some people are called trump phobic. they cannot say trump's name without republican extremist attached to it. he claimed that we did not want to solve the crisis at the border. calling anyone who wants our country to have a secure border a maga republican extremist is not only a clear sign of acute trump phobia, but it is clear evidence of just how out of touch some people are with the overwhelming majority of americans and reality for that matter. {time} 0930 there may be some--however, i do not know them--republicans, democrats, or independents who actually believe [[page h371]] that when somebody breaks into your home, that they are entitled to become a member of your family. how about being honest here for a change? he knew, i know, everyone knows, even the most challenged trumphobics know that, despite president biden's and secretary mayorkas' numerous fantasy denials, there has, in fact, been a crisis at our southern border, and it began when the president took office. now, our president finally acknowledges that we have a border crisis and said he will fix it, but only if we give him more money to more quickly process more illegals. that will not fix the crisis at the border. the bizarre proposal that the border can be secured while still allowing 5,000 illegals a day to invade our country is like claiming it is possible to be half pregnant. you have a right to stand with the drug cartels, but i and the rest of the maga republicans stand with texas and the united states of america. the sovereignty of our nation, the safety and security of american communities is not up for negotiation. it can only be fixed by the president reversing his executive orders that created the invasion in the first place, or the adoption of h.r. 2. in the meantime, i am more than happy to support congressman moore's h.r. 6976 to save american lives. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i yield such time as she may consume to the distinguished gentlewoman from washington (ms. jayapal), the ranking democrat on the immigration subcommittee. ms. jayapal. mr. speaker, i rise in strong opposition to h.r. 6976. once again, the majority is wasting our time by putting forward a piece of legislation that has zero chance of becoming law and that is extraordinarily broad. no one condones driving under the influence. we should do everything we can to prevent people from getting behind the wheel while intoxicated, but this bill, designed to scapegoat and denigrate immigrants, will not solve the serious problem of duis. public safety threats, including those who have been convicted of serious dui offenses, are already inadmissible and removable under the immigration and nationality act, and this bill would not change or enhance that. under the ina, a conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude where the punishment can be for a year or longer makes an individual deportable. courts have ruled over and over again that serious dui offenses that put others at risk are cimts and make the perpetrators deportable. but this bill is not about serious offenses, mr. speaker. far from it. the bill says that a conviction for a single dui offense, misdemeanor, or felony makes you instantly deportable and an admission to such a offense makes you instantly inadmissible. no questions asked. i can understand, maybe, the appeal of something that sounds like a zero-tolerance policy, but let me tell you, mr. speaker, if we had that kind of policy here in the house of representatives, there would be several members that would not be members of this chamber. moreover, by including every single type of dui offense, this bill would make someone deportable for not driving under the influence. that is because states have a wide variety of opinions on what is a dui. for example, arizona's dui statute allows people to be charged with a dui if they are intoxicated and have ``physical control'' of their vehicle. the ninth circuit found that the breadth of this statute means--and i am quoting here, ``one may be convicted under it for sitting in one's own car in one's own driveway with the key in the ignition and a bottle of beer in one's hand.'' because of this, the ninth circuit determined that a conviction under this statute was insufficient to count as a deportable offense. as the court put it, ``drunken driving is despicable. having physical control of a car while drinking is not''--their words, not mine. as many places across the country experience cold spells in the last week or so, there are states that would allow prosecution of someone simply if they were sitting in their car with the heat on while inebriated even if it was in their own driveway. current law allows judges to use their discretion to look at the broader facts of the case. this bill would strip that discretion away from them and would mandate that even someone whose only crime was sitting in a parked car while inebriated must be deported. let us not forget that deportability grounds, like the one that this bill would create, impact immigrants who are here lawfully, those who my colleagues always like to say, ``came the right way.'' by the way, mr. speaker, i am one of those. i came here to this country at 16 years old. it took me 17 years to get my citizenship, and here i am as a proud member of the united states house of representatives. are we really saying that we think the best use of our very limited federal government resources is to work on deporting a green card holder who decided to sleep in their car rather than drive home drunk from a bar? a green card holder not trying to drive drunk, just trying to stay warm? i certainly do not think that is a good use of our resources. it is certainly not a good use of our time on this floor. but my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have made it clear that they are not interested in sensible solutions, just in sensationalism. this bill is another example of that. also, i hope my colleagues will stop referring to people as illegals. people are human beings. they have different statuses. some are undocumented. if you want to say some are illegal, but let us not call human beings illegal. i am tired of that language. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to reject this bill. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from minnesota (mr. stauber), a former law enforcement officer and a good friend of ours. mr. stauber. mr. speaker, president biden, today, by executive order can end catch and release, cease the exploitation of the parole authority, reinstate remain in mexico, expand expedited removal authority, and renew building the wall. by executive order, mr. speaker, he can do that, which will stop the illegal immigration by 80 percent, just those executive orders. he can do that today. mr. speaker, i am horrified and i am dismayed. we have been shouting from the rooftops that the border is a crisis for years. and finally, finally, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are beginning to acknowledge there is a problem just in time for an election. how shocking? just like when they switched from ``defund the police'' to pro-police rhetoric in 2022 just before the election. they have this playbook down pat. since the president has taken office, mr. speaker, there have been over 7 million illegal crossings at our southern border. over 8.3 million illegal crossings nationwide. yes, that is right. our southern border is in such disarray and has sucked up so much of our resources that our northern border is wide open, and the cartels are taking advantage, including in the state of new york where my esteemed colleague, who is claiming time in opposition on the other side of the aisle, is from. his state is in desperate need of help from illegals taking over their cities, overrunning their public safety, overrunning their schools, overrunning their social services, and he stands up here, mr. speaker, and says there is nothing wrong. this crisis is personal, as it is impacting the safety and security of my constituents. in 2022, minnesota resort owners along the canadian border in minnesota caught illegal immigrants trespassing on their property. last fall, a young girl in bemidji, minnesota, was sexually assaulted and 11 illegal immigrants were found at the scene. and just last week, mr. speaker, authorities arrested an al-shabaab terrorist in minneapolis. the terrorist was caught at the southern border 1 year prior and released back into our country by the biden administration's catch and release. they allowed him to roam for 1 year in this country, and it is alleged, mr. speaker, that he was trading in illegal arms. i fear it is only a matter of time before another september 11 occurs on our soil, and we must not let that happen. [[page h372]] if democrats were serious about making our border secure, they would encourage their colleagues in the senate to pass the already house- passed bill, h.r. 2, the most strongest worded piece of legislation on our border in this country's history. they can get it to his desk immediately for president biden to sign, or they would call on the president to use his executive authorities, as i already stated, to reinstate president trump's policies that were keeping our nation safe. but they are not serious, so, yes, i am here today to beg my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to vote for this bill that would make illegal immigrants convicted of a dui deportable or inadmissible to our country. because of my law enforcement background, mr. speaker, i am probably one of the very few members of congress who has ever been to the scene of a drunk driving accident where there was a death. one of very few who has delivered death notices to unsuspecting families or victims, and i pray that none of you ever have to deliver or receive such heartbreaking news. at a minimum, mr. speaker, we should keep illegal immigrants who drive under the influence of alcohol and put people's lives in danger out of this country. to my democratic colleagues, i ask: get on the side of public safety and law enforcement all of the time, not just during election years. this is an easy vote, and i ask my colleagues to do the right thing and vote ``yes'' on h.r. 6976. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i reserve the balance of my time. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, i yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from utah (mr. curtis). mr. curtis. mr. speaker, i rise today in support of h.r. 6976, the protect our communities from duis act. i have personally been to the southern border and seen the crisis firsthand. i do not care your political persuasion, all of us know what is happening down there is wrong and needs to be corrected. the first duty of the federal government is to protect american citizens, and this cannot be done without securing our border. i am pleased that the house has taken the steps this week to do so. it is not clear under current law that individuals illegally in this country can be deported for driving while intoxicated. this legislation would ensure any noncitizen convicted or admitting to driving under the influence would no longer be allowed to remain in the united states. this should not be controversial. when you drive drunk, you are putting your neighbors and the broader community at unacceptable risk, and that we cannot allow. also, this week, we passed legislation that would allow law enforcement to prosecute criminals who intentionally refuse to stop for border patrol agents. the practice of running from border patrol agents is dangerous for residents, patrol officers, and the fugitive. i hold deep compassion for those who are in circumstances that they feel the need to enter the united states illegally. however, we are a country of laws and need to ensure individuals know they need to enter the united states only through the legal manners. mr. speaker, i urge my colleagues to support this legislation. {time} 0945 mr. speaker, i yield 1 minute to the gentleman from texas (mr. self). mr. self. mr. speaker, i rise in support of h.r. 6976, the protect our communities from duis act. i will be on the border saturday yet again, and it is a total mess. illegal aliens continue to surge through the southern border and are overwhelming many states, to include those from the other side of the aisle. in addition to the fentanyl overdoses and cartel violence, drunk driving has been a major issue that has senselessly taken too many american lives. last year, 52-year-old special olympian craig schimming was hit and killed in a car wreck on his way to church by an illegal alien drunk and high on meth. devastating stories like this happen far too often across our country, and there is absolutely no reason illegal aliens with dui convictions should be able to stay in the united states. the protect our communities from duis act would deport illegal aliens who have been convicted of or committed the offense of driving while drunk or impaired. this is commonsense legislation, and every member of the people's house should support this bill. mr. nadler. mr. speaker, i am prepared to close, and i yield myself the balance of my time. mr. speaker, the last few speakers on the republican side spent most of their time not addressing this bill but addressing the general crisis at our southern border. the fact is there is a crisis. we all know that. the fact is that one of the major problems--and republicans say this all the time, and they are right--is catch and release. someone is caught or more usually turns themselves in to a border patrol officer, claims asylum, and is given a court date 4 years, 5 years down the road. why? because we do not have enough asylum officers. we do not have enough asylum judges. president biden requested $14 billion to increase the number of border patrol men and women and to increase the number of asylum judges and immigration judges so that you would not have catch and release; so that people who claimed asylum would have their cases adjudicated in weeks, not in years. those who are entitled to asylum would be admitted to the country and could work and those who are not could be swiftly removed, deported from the country. do our republican colleagues want to do that? no. they do not want to give the president the means of alleviating this problem. they want a campaign issue, and they are very open about it. you have in the senate a painstakingly negotiated and extraordinarily conservative--so we hear, i have not seen the text yet--strong immigration bill negotiated by such liberals as senator lankford and senator graham, and they are going to pass it, in all likelihood. the republicans in the house say we will not even look at it. why? because the former president, president trump, said do not pass anything. i want a campaign issue. they do not want to solve the problem. they want to keep the problem going as a campaign issue, and they said it themselves. do not get up here and talk about the problems on the southern border when you will not give this president any of the authority or the means that he seeks to deal with it when you say, as speaker johnson said, you are not going to even look at the bill from the senate because it is not perfect. since when do we insist on perfect legislation? now, mr. speaker, let us get to this bill. duis are a serious problem, and no one who poses a threat to public safety should be eligible for immigration benefits, but that is already the case under current law. this legislation is a gross overreach that would lead to absurd consequences and deportation for people who pose no threat to our country, such as the examples we heard of someone who, rather than driving drunk, is in his own car inebriated with the key turned on, listening to music in his own driveway, posing a threat to no one. even for people who have been here many years, with american citizen spouses and children, that would lead to automatic deportation while doing nothing that our laws do not already do to deter people from driving under the influence--driving under the influence as opposed to sitting in their driveway under the influence. mr. speaker, i urge members to oppose this bill, and i yield back the balance of my time. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, in response to my colleagues on the left. first, my colleagues across the aisle say that it is a campaign issue, that we are trying to make this is a campaign issue. it is not. they made it a campaign issue when joe biden came in day one and did away with the remain in mexico policy, when they started this catch and release program, and now they are saying they need more money. it is the executive orders that have created the problem on the u.s. southern border. i have been there a number of times--three times, to be exact--and [[page h373]] sheriff dannels told us the best he had ever seen the border in 2018 was under donald trump. the worst he has ever seen the border was then, and that was before the recent 200,000 people came across last month. to get up here and say that the administration needs more money or that they need some law--no. biden has every tool in the toolbox to shut the u.s. southern border down, and he has continued to create crises for our communities. this government is so good often at setting the building on fire and then wanting to fund the fire department. we do not need more money. we just need to apply the laws that are on the books and shut this flow down across this border before more and more people get killed and injured in these accidents we are talking about. the democrats would prefer to engage in these outlandish hypotheticals and make light of driving under the influence rather than protect american communities from dangerous drivers. again, here are some facts. according to the mothers against drunk driving: most drunk driving offenders drive at least 80 times drunk before they are arrested. additionally, a 2014 article detailed how more than one-third of the individuals who are convicted of driving under the influence are repeat offenders. the protect our communities from duis act ensures that aliens who drive drunk can be removed from the united states after their first conviction--not after the tenth, not after they kill or seriously injure a child of yours or mine or a grandchild--instead of spending time on a 50-state survey of dui laws to formulate some farfetched hypotheticals. i encourage my colleagues to grapple with the consequences of drunk driving and support this commonsense bill. mr. speaker, i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. all time for debate on the bill has expired. the chair understands that amendment no. 1 will not be offered. pursuant to the rule, the previous question is ordered on the bill. the question is on the engrossment and third reading of the bill. the bill was ordered to be engrossed and read a third time, and was read the third time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on passage of the bill. the question was taken; and the speaker pro tempore announced that the ayes appeared to have it. mr. moore of alabama. mr. speaker, on that i demand the yeas and nays. the yeas and nays were ordered. announcement by the speaker pro tempore the speaker pro tempore (mr. steube). pursuant to clause 9 of rule 20, this 15-minute vote on passage of the bill will be followed by a 5- minute vote on agreeing to the speaker's approval of the journal, if ordered. the vote was taken by electronic device, and there were--yeas 274, nays 150, not voting 7, as follows: [roll no. 31] yeas--274 aderholt alford allen allred amodei arrington babin bacon baird balderson banks barr bean (fl) bentz bergman bice biggs bilirakis bishop (nc) boebert bost boyle (pa) brecheen buchanan buck bucshon budzinski burchett burgess burlison calvert cammack caraveo carey carl carter (ga) carter (tx) cartwright case chavez-deremer ciscomani cline cloud clyde cohen cole collins comer courtney craig crane crawford crenshaw cuellar curtis d'esposito davids (ks) davidson davis (nc) de la cruz deluzio desjarlais diaz-balart donalds duarte duncan dunn (fl) edwards ellzey emmer estes ezell fallon feenstra ferguson finstad fischbach fitzgerald fitzpatrick fleischmann flood foster foxx franklin, scott fry fulcher gaetz gallagher gallego garbarino garcia, mike gimenez golden (me) gonzales, tony good (va) gooden (tx) gosar gottheimer granger graves (la) graves (mo) green (tn) greene (ga) griffith grothman guest guthrie hageman harder (ca) harris harshbarger hayes hern higgins (la) hill himes hinson horsford houchin houlahan hoyle (or) hudson huizenga hunt issa jackson (nc) jackson (tx) james johnson (sd) jordan joyce (oh) joyce (pa) kaptur kean (nj) keating kelly (ms) kelly (pa) kiggans (va) kildee kiley kim (ca) kuster kustoff lahood lalota lamalfa lamborn landsman langworthy latta laturner lawler lee (fl) lee (nv) lesko letlow levin loudermilk lucas luetkemeyer luna luttrell lynch mace malliotakis maloy mann manning massie mast mccaul mcclain mcclintock mccormick mchenry meuser miller (il) miller (oh) miller (wv) miller-meeks mills molinaro moolenaar mooney moore (al) moore (ut) moran morelle moskowitz mrvan murphy nehls newhouse nickel norman nunn (ia) obernolte ogles owens palmer panetta pappas peltola pence perez perry peters pettersen pfluger posey reschenthaler rodgers (wa) rogers (al) rose rosendale ross rouzer roy rutherford ryan salazar salinas schneider scholten schrier schweikert scott, austin self sessions sherrill simpson slotkin smith (mo) smith (ne) smith (nj) smucker sorensen spanberger spartz stanton stauber steel stefanik steil steube strong swalwell sykes tenney thompson (pa) tiffany timmons titus turner valadao van drew van duyne van orden vasquez wagner walberg waltz weber (tx) webster (fl) wenstrup westerman wild williams (ny) williams (tx) wilson (sc) wittman womack yakym zinke nays--150 adams aguilar amo auchincloss balint barragan beatty bera beyer bishop (ga) blumenauer blunt rochester bonamici bowman brown brownley bush carbajal cardenas carson carter (la) casar casten castor (fl) castro (tx) cherfilus-mccormick chu clark (ma) clarke (ny) cleaver clyburn connolly correa costa crockett crow davis (il) dean (pa) degette delauro delbene desaulnier doggett escobar eshoo espaillat evans fletcher foushee frankel, lois frost garamendi garcia (il) garcia (tx) garcia, robert goldman (ny) gomez gonzalez, vicente green, al (tx) grijalva higgins (ny) hoyer huffman ivey jackson (il) jackson lee jacobs jayapal jeffries johnson (ga) kamlager-dove kelly (il) khanna kilmer kim (nj) krishnamoorthi larsen (wa) larson (ct) lee (ca) lee (pa) leger fernandez lieu lofgren magaziner matsui mcbath mcclellan mccollum mcgarvey mcgovern meeks menendez meng mfume moore (wi) moulton mullin nadler napolitano neal neguse ocasio-cortez omar pallone pascrell payne pelosi pingree pocan porter pressley quigley ramirez raskin ruiz ruppersberger sanchez sarbanes scanlon schakowsky schiff scott (va) scott, david sewell sherman soto stansbury stevens strickland takano thanedar thompson (ca) thompson (ms) tlaib tokuda tonko torres (ca) torres (ny) trahan trone underwood vargas veasey velazquez wasserman schultz waters watson coleman wexton williams (ga) wilson (fl) not voting--7 armstrong dingell norcross phillips rogers (ky) scalise smith (wa) {time} 1029 ms. clark of massachusetts, mr. cleaver, and mrs. trahan changed their vote from ``yea'' to ``nay.'' so the bill was passed. the result of the vote was announced as above recorded. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. ____________________