[congressional record volume 162, number 143 (wednesday, september 21, 2016)] [house] [pages h5717-h5718] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] congratulating clearwater police officer jonathan walser the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from florida (mr. jolly) for 5 minutes. mr. jolly. mr. speaker, i rise today to recognize a man who has served our country and his community as a u.s. marine, a sheriff's deputy, and as a police detective. mr. speaker, i rise today to congratulate my very dear friend and american patriot, a man of deep and abiding christian faith, mr. jonathan walser, on his retirement from the clearwater florida police department. after serving his country in the united states marine corps for 6 years, officer walser opted to continue serving his community by joining the pasco county sheriff's department in 1994 as a detention deputy. two years later, walser joined the clearwater police department and began a career that has made an incredible impact on our entire clearwater community. early on, officer walser demonstrated remarkable commitment and leadership, earning a highly successful rating at the conclusion of his new-hire probationary period. officer walser would serve in several specialty assignments during his career. he served as a field training officer and a member of the emergency response team. he also served for more than a decade on the clearwater police department honor guard team. as an honor guard member, officer walser has represented the department at hundreds of funerals and memorial services and, in particular, has honored the families of fallen officers, a duty most personal to him. officer walser served as a community police officer on clearwater's wood valley community policing team in 2001 and 2002. in june 2002, officer walser was assigned to serve on the traffic enforcement team motorcycle unit, a role in which he focused on traffic safety, intoxicated driving, and crash investigations. jonathan most compassionately used his department motorcycle as a tool to connect with the community, frequently posing for photos with kids sitting on the motorcycle. in august 2011, officer walser transferred to the criminal investigations division burglary unit to serve as a detective. during his time as a detective, he was continually lauded for his superior investigative abilities and report-writing skills, in addition to his passion for being actively engaged in the community and volunteering at local events. [[page h5718]] in 2015, officer walser returned to the traffic enforcement team motorcycle unit, where he served until his recent retirement. officer walser also serves as an active board member with the fraternal order of police lodge 10. he has served as the president of lodge 10 for an incredible 12 years, and has been selected 11 times as the fop lodge 10 member of the year. officer walser is not only highly respected by fop members, but also by his fellow clearwater police department colleagues, city of clearwater leadership, and a broad base of community leaders. because of his exceptional service, officer walser has received the chief's unit citation for his service with the honor guard team and the burglary unit. when asked about officer walser, clearwater police chief dan slaughter said: officer walser proves that you do not need to be a supervisor to be a remarkable leader. i have never met a person more dedicated to the officers, their families, and the entire community. i could not agree more with chief slaughter. mr. speaker, john walser is a dear friend of mine. he is a dear friend of so many in the clearwater community, a constant source of faith-based counsel, a compassionate leader, a man who deeply loves his family, deeply loves his community, and deeply loves the god in whom he daily puts his trust. i ask my colleagues to join me in thanking a remarkable person, officer jonathan walser, for his years of service to our country and to our community in florida. we wish him the very best in his retirement. ____________________