[congressional record volume 162, number 25 (thursday, february 11, 2016)] [house] [page h713] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] honoring the service of doug richardson the speaker pro tempore. the chair recognizes the gentleman from florida (mr. jolly) for 5 minutes. mr. jolly. mr. speaker, i rise today to recognize a gentleman who has dedicated his life to serving our nation, a true american hero from the state of florida, mr. doug richardson. mr. richardson is retiring from the united states special operations command after 50 years of government service. mr. richardson currently serves as a defense intelligence senior leader and as the program executive officer for surveillance, reconnaissance, and exploitation at ussocom. a west point graduate, mr. richardson distinguished himself throughout his military career, retiring as a colonel from active duty in the united states army in 1993 and then continuing his service to ussocom as a civilian. perhaps the best example of doug's integrity and courage is recorded in his silver star medal citation, which was awarded to doug for his heroism in combat during the vietnam war. on june 18, 1969, while serving as an adviser with the 4th cavalry regiment of the army of the republic of vietnam, then-captain richardson accompanied a small armored infantry team moving to break through a very determined enemy force to rescue the crewmen of a downed united states army helicopter. as the unit approached the village, it came under intense rocket- propelled grenade and automatic weapons fire from very well-concealed positions. the area was also known to be heavily mined and set with traps. as the attempts of the vietnamese to reach the helicopter were continually repulsed by enemy counterattacks, captain richardson dismounted his track, rallied a small force of vietnamese soldiers, and then led them to the helicopter through enemy fire, exhorting his comrades to vigorously engage the enemy. disregarding his personal safety and armed with only a pistol, captain richardson led his men through the mined area and into an assault on the enemy positions. following his example, the soldiers, though at a tactical disadvantage, pressed the attack vigorously and ultimately broke the resistance and secured the helicopter. despite a hail of small-arms fire and hand grenades directed at his position, doug continued his search for the survivors until he had found the remains of all u.s. crewmembers and then remained to extract the bodies of his fallen comrades from the wreckage. as a result of captain richardson's valiant display of battlefield courage, the vietnamese force was able to hold the area from a tenacious enemy and return the fallen soldiers to allied control. mr. speaker, ussocom will miss doug richardson's leadership. as a nation, let us recognize his valiant service. i ask that this body join me in honoring and congratulating mr. doug richardson on a most honorable and truly heroic career. ____________________