[congressional record volume 162, number 23 (tuesday, february 9, 2016)] [house] [pages h637-h638] from the congressional record online through the government publishing office [ www.gpo.gov ] john h. chafee coastal barrier resources boundaries system map revisions mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i move to suspend the rules and pass the bill (h.r. 890) to correct the boundaries of the john h. chafee coastal barrier resources system unit p16, as amended. the clerk read the title of the bill. the text of the bill is as follows: h.r. 890 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled, section 1. replacement of john h. chafee coastal barrier resources system map. (a) in general.--the maps subtitled ``cape romano unit p15, tigertail unit fl-63p'' and ``keewaydin island unit p16'' included in the set of maps entitled ``coastal barrier resources system'' referred to in section 4(a) of the coastal barrier resources act (16 u.s.c. 3503(a)) and relating to certain john h. chafee coastal barrier resources system units in florida are hereby replaced by other maps relating to the units subtitled ``cape romano unit p15/p15p'', ``keewaydin island unit p16/p16p, tigertail unit fl-63p'', and ``keewaydin island unit p16/p16p'', respectively, and dated april 10, 2015. (b) availability.--the secretary of the interior shall keep the replacement maps referred to in subsection (a) on file and available for inspection in accordance with section 4(b) of the coastal barrier resources act (16 u.s.c. 3503(b)). the speaker pro tempore. pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from new jersey (mr. macarthur) and the gentleman from new mexico (mr. grijalva) each will control 20 minutes. the chair recognizes the gentleman from new jersey. general leave mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i ask unanimous consent that all members may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include extraneous materials on the bill under consideration. the speaker pro tempore. is there objection to the request of the gentleman from new jersey? there was no objection. mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i yield myself such time as i may consume. this bipartisan bill corrects coastal barrier resources system boundary errors in collier county, florida. the u.s. fish and wildlife service, which administers the coastal barriers system program, has acknowledged the need to correct these errors and has since remapped the area. the agency sent the new maps to the congress, which has the sole authority to change the boundaries and codify the correct maps in this case. this is what the bill, as amended, achieves. i urge its adoption. i reserve the balance of my time. mr. grijalva. i yield myself such time as i may consume. mr. speaker, the coastal barrier resources act, or cbra, requires the identification of hazardous areas on the atlantic and gulf coasts and makes federal subsidies off limits to people who choose to develop these lands. particularly in this time of rising sea levels and increased storm surge brought on by global warming, cbra is critical to protecting american taxpayers and sensitive coastal ecosystems. h.r. 890 would adjust the boundaries of several coastal barrier resources system units in florida. these changes have been carefully mapped by the fish and wildlife service and reflect improvements in technology that have allowed us to show with great accuracy which parcels of land do and do not constitute coastal barrier resources under the law. as a result, numerous properties that were originally included by mistake will be removed, and other properties that have been identified as at risk will be included. these changes to the cbrs are protective of private property rights, the environment, and the taxpayers. i urge support of this bipartisan legislation. mr. speaker, having no other members to address this legislation on my side, i yield back the balance of my time. mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from florida (mr. clawson). mr. clawson of florida. mr. speaker, i appreciate this opportunity to present h.r. 890, which adopts new coastal barrier resources system maps for the southern part of my district, florida 19, in southwest collier county, florida. [[page h638]] a special thanks to my fellow members--don beyer, mario diaz-balart, and chairman rob bishop--for their support and helping me push this through. i urge support of the passage. on a personal note, it has been my lifelong concern for the environment and involvement in water quality issues in my hometown of bonita springs, florida, that led me to congress on an unknowing path really. so introducing this bill, to me, today is really special and personal. a special note of thanks to those who helped--so many folks-- particularly bob and jack for their perseverance. perseverance paid off. also, i thank cherie for her abiding inspiration and to yodi. the cbrs was created by congress with the 1982 coastal barrier resources act. this initiative preserves the ecological integrity of coastal areas while still protecting private property rights. this initiative preserves the ecological integrity of coastal areas that serve as important barriers against wind and tidal forces caused by coastal storms, and reduces further development in these sensitive areas. in other words, it creates a perpetual protected area for our wonderful gulf wildlife. these new maps have passed public review, omb review, and have been released by the u.s. fish and wildlife service. this is the southern part of my district. the new maps correct errors from 40 years ago, which seriously hurt some 1,600 of our constituents and hurt their access to flood insurance, home mortgages, and refinancing. these new maps also add 17,000 acres in perpetuity to cbrs, 17,000 acres principally in this zone right here, between naples and marco island and also a little bit south. keewaydin island--that you see right here, just south of naples--and cape romano are part of the pristine, picturesque ten thousand islands chain that begins 20 miles of naples. these newly preserved areas highlighted on these charts cover five geographical units, part of now over 40,000 continuous acres that will be permanently protected. this is government doing something right for all stakeholders and for all the generations that will follow us. h.r. 890, protecting 15 miles of natural coastal barriers, is sound economics. it is a piece of what needs to be done toward growing southwest florida's multibillion dollar private and commercial real estate values and south florida's tourism industry, which brings in over 5 million visitors to my district. it also employs one out of every five people in the local workforce. i am proud to report that this bill will create the largest grouping of cbrs units nationwide, protecting our unique florida everglades and ecosystem, aquatic plants and animals, other wildlife, and also protecting private properties from storms and floods. keewaydin island right here, just south of naples, is one of the largest, if not the largest, sea turtle nesting areas in florida and in the united states. depending on the time of year, these are the nests that we see throughout our district on the beach. also in this area, we see lots of the beautiful spoonbill that you cannot find in too many different places. the florida everglades are a natural treasure. it is home to wildlife and plants that are unique in our nation: fish, tortoises, reptiles, and insects. it is our duty to protect these species. this bill will have a permanent, positive impact on preserving this fragile ecological area and quality of life. three years ago, i waded into the gulf of mexico with my folks. they urged me to get involved in local politics, hoping that i could have just a small impact and make a small, positive difference in the health of the waters of southwest florida. my mom is gone now, but she always hoped that a moment like this would come. the speaker pro tempore. the time of the gentleman has expired. mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i yield such time as he may consume to the gentleman from florida. mr. clawson of florida. mr. speaker, this is a moment that we can accomplish something positive for our constituents, positive for our economy, and positive for our waters of south florida. i am very appreciative to have a small role, and i acknowledge that we have so much more to do to conserve the beauty of southwest florida for generations to come. mr. macarthur. mr. speaker, i have no other speakers. i yield back the balance of my time. the speaker pro tempore. the question is on the motion offered by the gentleman from new jersey (mr. macarthur) that the house suspend the rules and pass the bill, h.r. 890, as amended. the question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed. the title of the bill was amended so as to read: ``a bill to revise the boundaries of certain john h. chafee coastal barrier resources system units in florida.''. a motion to reconsider was laid on the table. ____________________