good afternoon. welcome to the fourth annual closing ceremony for the hank and billy suver aaron summer young scholars research institute. and i am thrilled that mrs. aaron is here with us this evening and you will hear briefly from her. and the research institute is under the auspices of the samuel deboys cook center on social equity and mrs. cook and her family are here with us as well. so there is a few people i would like to thank before introducing our keynote speaker this evening. these are folks without whom this summer research institute could not have occurred. and in particular i want to thank dr. gwendolyn wright, our director for strategic initiatives and collaborations, who basically organizes this this operation every year. so thank you to her. and in addition i would like to thank joanne o'neill, our grants manager, who has worked hard with this program every year as well. and i thank you to alexandria miller, our communication specialist, imari smith, one of our research associates, and chris allen cooksy, who is not with us this evening but who did a significant amount of work on behalf of the camp. i would also like to thank, and these are folks who are essential to thank, are instructors for the summer institute. one of whom has been with us every year since the program began mr. raymond beeman. i would also like to thank miss allison edwards, miss cheyenne solorio, mr. michael agri jr. and miss jackie bottes. now the summer research institute is a collaboration with the durham public schools. so i would be most remiss if i did not say thank you for the support that they provided, particularly with respect to transportation for the students. and specifically i would like to thank dr. daniel bullock, who you will also hear from later this evening. the executive director of equity affairs for durham public schools, who has been one of the people who was inspirational in the formation of this program at the outset. and he has been assisted ably by germaine porter, who is the leader of the boys of color initiative. we have had several guest speakers throughout the course of the summer. they have included jillian johnson, who is one of our local council members, chuck manning sr., my graduate student, agine clemens, who gave a presentation on police behavior, which is a theme that is also reflected in the work that some of the students have been doing. andrea harris, brenda howardton, attorney nisha williams, and two of the postdoctoral fellows at the cook center, paul robbins, and lana cah blackman carr. finally i would like to thank the student interns. these are folks who were formally in the program, but they graduated last year, and they were enthusiastic about the prospect of coming back to the summer camp for another year. and so they joined us as interns. these include amazinde adi, bolu agasa, sydney grissom, elijah kang, and kennedy ruff and rachel ruff. so i am very, very thrilled to have the opportunity to introduce our keynote speaker this evening, mr. reginald bean. reginald bean is vice president of culture, engagement, and stewardship for coca-cola consolidated. he is based in charlotte and north carolina. and in his role, he is responsible for enhancing the employee experience by providing strategic direction and planning and promoting a purpose-driven value-based culture for effective employee engagement. in addition, his responsibilities include developing external relationships with strategic outreach organizations, with a purpose of enhancing the experience for employees, customers, and partners. he is also the author of the book, unfinished, forty lessons of purpose self and becoming a man. this is an inspirational text. she told me, is motivated by his passion for trying to address issues that surround the maintenance of the integrity of the black family and the role of fatherhood. so we are very pleased to have mr. reginald bean with us this evening. thank you. our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. it is our light, not our darkness that frightens us. your playing small does not serve the world. there is nothing enlightening about shrinking so other people will not feel insecure around you. we are all meant to shine as children do. it is not just in some of us, it is in all of us. and as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. as we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others. good evening. oh come on now. good evening. it is such a pleasure for me to be here today really celebrating and such an awesome facility with the celebrating the legacy. so dr. sam cook center on social equity. this is a bad brother. he was an activist, a pioneer, the first african american professor here at duke university. so many more accolades that i can simply do my presentation just covering dr. cook. mr. hank aaron, we all many of us know him about from his work done in the negro league and in mlb, 23 seasons as an outfielder for the milwaukee brewers in atlanta braves. but his most significant work was not on the field. i am sure he would say if he were here, his most significant work was off the field, havin' a way so we can have evenings like we have today. but for both of them, i want to honor their families, the cook family as well as mrs. aaron. so if we could just take a second and just let us acknowledge their presence here today. and before i get into my remarks, i want to celebrate the young people who did the work this summer as well as the families that supported them. so give yourselves a round of applause. so on behalf of our chairman and ceo frank harrison, our president hank flint and the 17,000 teammates that we have across 15 states, i want to say thank you for allowing me to share this moment with you today. however, as i get into my remarks, i just want to share with you two questions that i have struggled with along my journey to get here today. but as i was driving over from charlotte, i came in last night, generally driving is relaxing for me. and on this particular sunday afternoon, i am flipping through stations on xm radio and i keep running to the same types of channels or the same types of conversations on every channel. it is really highlighting the divisiveness that we are experiencing in our country today. so every time i stopped on the channel, they were talking about the same guy. they were talking about his secret meetings, his tweet storms, his cryptic messages. and for me, the drive is normally peaceful, but i would start to lose my mind. and from a sanity perspective, i said, what would i do if i was in his shoes? now, generally, i am disgusted when we talk about the divisive nature of our country. but then i thought, let me put his shoes on for a second. this guy has four years to make an impact. now, many of us have questioned his approach. his business ventures have been scrutinized and his global connections in question. and again, i asked myself, this guy has four years to leave his mark, to leave what he considers his legacy. he is hired friends, he is hired his friends for important positions. he is actually tried to position his kids for legacy well beyond his. now, my thought process moved from, i want to understand what it is like to be in his shoes. and to, by the time i made it here, i was actually aligned with his thinking. now, i know this may not get me invited back here. but i had to just celebrate, you know, lebron james and him signing for four years with the los angeles lakers. oh, did you guys thought i was talking about 45? i am talking about 23. and just wanted to celebrate his four years of taking the shot at creating a new legacy for him and his family. but the most important thing i thought about lebron was he did not let his starting point dictate his path throughout life. so i hope i get an invitation back. i am sorry to put everybody on edge there. it is like you guys faces were like, okay, who is this guy? and how to get here again? but again, my name is reginald bean, vice president of coatrin engagement with the late nation's largest coca-cola bomber. my job is fairly simple. inspired 17,000 people to bring their best version of themselves to work every day. i have also had the privilege of serving in the military around the world. and i came back with one, one really good point was i understand really the the thread that connects us all as humans. so whether i served a bit time out on the west coast, northern california, or southern korea, or the time i spent in japan or thailand, i realized that one thing we all have in common. so i want the best for our families. we all want equal opportunities to really showcase our intellect. but my journey did not begin there. my journey began in detroit, michigan in 1974. so i am an 80s baby. so i grew up in the 80s. and during that time that was the height of the crack epidemic. that was the number one or number two, just depends on what metric you were using. they were the highest murder per capita. it was a neighborhood where access to quality education and quality food were pretty scarce. however, my neighborhood was made up of quality people. so we lacked on resources, but we made up with character. in fact, there was a time when community parenting still was a thing. right? and so if you did something at school, by the time you got home, the situation was rectified. but i grew up in a unbelievably, unbelievably loving environment. that was just dysfunctional. so i am the middle of three boys. i am the middle of three boys raised by mom. who worked multiple jobs and her desire was simply to keep her safe. but with every challenge that was faced and everything that my mom could not afford us, i had an awesome grandmother. any margaret was her name. now any margaret was the sweetest lady who can make the sweetest sweet potato pie. and she give you one of these if you did something, but we all knew she was not going to do anything. but she was an activist. she was an educator. she was a great example of what a servant leader was before we start using the term servant leader. but i lost my grandmother when she was 55 years old. and now that somebody who is a lot closer to 55, i realized i do not have a whole lot of time on my hands. but with every turn in life, there were people who filled in for the things that she offered me. so again, two things that i two questions that i struggle with throughout my journey. two things. how much time do i have and how precious is that time? how much time do i have? again, four years lebron has to make an impact. there is a lot that can happen in four years. right? so some of you young people think four years is a long time. if you look over at your parents, they say four years is not a long time. so think about what can happen in a span of four years. so in four years, most of the technology that all of you are using was developed just in four years. think about it. gmail, twitter, the iphone, youtube, all within a four years span were all developed. you think about some of martin luther king's most prominent years. some of his most successful years came within a four years span. and i would say the time that jesus spent with his disciples three and a half years. so if you think about four years, really is not a lot of time. so i had a chance to really check out some of your research posters and some of your research papers. some of them covering healthcare, mental wellness, education, gender disparities. and i will tell you, i thought i was coming here to leave you with a couple nuggets. and i was thoroughly inspired by what i read. the research that you have done, the time, the pride that you took into some of the work that you have done. but today, i still want to leave you with the nuggets that i brought for you. so there is seven of them. and most of you have heard some of these before. some of you have asked alexa or siri, some of these same questions. but i just want to inspire you today. the first is get there before you get there. now some of you have heard this. get your head in the game. believe you are going somewhere before you get there. but i want to remind you that to just believe and believe that god has a plan for you before you even see what that is. so dream it before you get there. right. and so when i see the work that you guys have done today, i am encouraged that you guys are thinking beyond today. so if you look to your left and you look to your right, i promise this is not a sermon. i am not going to ask you to hug your neighbor. but if you look to your left and you right, some of the folks that are around you will not be on the journey with you. some of the folks that are around you are just in your life temporarily. now that is excluding parents. but i want to encourage you to look around you when you make it back to your homes, to your schools, to your churches. and ask yourself, who is in my circle? who is going to be on this ride with me? who is going to encourage me to get there before i get there? and sometimes, you know, as i was driving on campus, i think about how many people made it to this university for this program that may not have had the opportunity to do so before, you know, whether the school system invited you in or somebody called you and say, hey, there is a great program that i want to encourage you to be a part of. you know, sometimes we have to move on to move up, meaning we have to move out of our circles in order to take advantage of the opportunities. sometimes we have to move out of our comfort zone in order to truly take advantage of the opportunity. so the third point is move on in order for you to move up. now, when i was in the military, i was stationed in northern california. so most of my assignments were with a military intelligence unit. so when you are assigned with a unit, you actually have to do what the unit does. and so in this particular scenario, northern california, this unit that i was stationed with, they would do an annual 20 mile hike. now, this was not just with your a6 and some underarmors shorts on. this is with full gear, helmet, boots, the whole nine. now, when i got there, we started this hike at three of the clock in the morning. and i could not understand why we started to early three of the clock in the morning. and so one of the guys reminded me that, hey, you know, this is these are mental games. so if you start the hike by the time you are halfway through, the sun's coming up. and so mentally, you think it is a new day. so you start off when it is dark by the time the sun comes up, it is a mentorship. so the same i would encourage you to apply to your life. it is a mentorship. so recognize some of the challenges that are ahead of you, but understand the rules of the game. sometimes we are playing with rules. we are playing the wrong rules to the game to the game of life. so just understand and recognize, recognize the game, a mental game that is. and then most of all, most of all, it is often our struggles, our story, no matter where we come from, that really propels us in life. and some of us are so afraid to look in the mirror and just smile back at it is eye to ourselves. to love ourselves, to hug ourselves. and so my next point here is respect the reflection. respect to you are as a person, love who you are as a person. and some of us had any control over the circumstances that we were born in. i love youself anyway. respect the reflection. there is enough people that encourage you not to respect who you are. so respect the reflection. and then this notion of fear. we all have it. you think about the idea most of us tell us that we should not be afraid. most people tell us just to just you know, put your chest out, tie your boot straps up and move forward. but i want to encourage you. slightly different today fear exists. fear exists, but i want to encourage you to lean into it. that is what courage comes from. courage comes from walking through it even when you get afraid. courage comes from signing up for the program even when your friends are kind of chilling for the summer. courage comes from standing up and being proud to present your work even though you may be a little nervous to speak in public. so fear exists. my encourage to you is just leaning to it. and as we stand into the the the the the the the doctor cook center on social equity. and we remember mr. and mrs. aaron. these folks will change and change makers. so i want to encourage you not to wait for somebody else to to impact change in our families and our communities and our circles. the change makers are right here in this room. so i want to encourage you to lean into accepting that that role of being a change maker, being a change agent. and so as you begin your the next chapter life whether that is your next semester in high school, whether it is your next season playing basketball. i want to encourage you to recognize the many people who paved the way for you. whether it is your parents that is paying the fee. whether it is your counselor that is encouraging you. or whether it is dr. cook and his family or mr. and mrs. aaron that is encouraging you. you know something i did not finish that story about my grandmother. there were several people who played a role in truly planting seeds in my life. some of them never got to solve the tree that grew because they planted no seeds 20, 25 years ago. so i just want to remind you to give a fist pump, give a hug, give a kiss to folks who are planting seeds in your life because many of them. they may not see the tree fully bloom. those may be counselors. they may be instructors. they may be just folks. they may be neighbors, but just i just want to remind you that there is significant people that play roles in our lives that are planting seeds that they will not ever get to see grow. they plan them. sometimes they fertilize in them. we call that discipline, but they are fertilizing them. but just remember that there are people playing significant roles and planting seeds that they will not ever get to see the fullness of who you who you are going to become. but i also want to encourage you to begin planting seeds. now there is no age restriction on when you can start motivating somebody else. there is a there is a younger version of you waiting in the wings waiting to be encouraged waiting for them somebody to give them a word of encouragement planting a seed. so i just want to remind you as i wrap up, i am living proof of seeds planted prayers answered and a lot of community feedback and discipline. so thank you again for allowing me to share this evening with you. again, i thought i was coming to bring you again and i am walking away with more than i came with. so thank you and enjoy the rest of your evening. hello and good evening. our group is on gender roles and social inequalities. hello, my name is my parker. i am going not in high school. my name is michael jennings and i am also going to northern high school. and my name is jimi nisleena's and i am going to jd clement early college. now our driving question is how do gender roles impact society? you may be asking what are gender roles? well, a general is a role or behavior learned by a person as appropriate to their gender determined by prevailing cultural norms. now our first topic, our first sub topic is how do just codes affect a female students education. now this graph is from a presentation done survey done in 2014 in 2015 from 183 people and a whopping 148 of them agreed that dress codes are extremely strict towards female students. according to papalans once in a 1999 they say that the original intended purpose of a dress code is for safety reasons for pride and for discipline. now, 57% of all schools across the country have a very strict dress code and the dress code in the graph you see before you is a dress code of dps. now look at this. look how many of these rules are against female students. no spaghetti straps, no halter tops, no strapless, no headwear, no seat-through garments, no mesh garments, mid-thigh shorts. boys get the easy ones, no baggy clothes, pants at waist level. these all are targeting and impacting a female students education. thank you. all right. our next sub topic dealt with mill salt and prisons and why it is under reported. it seems to stem from the fact that the stereotypes of men that they are aggressive, worseful, unemotional and can handle things themselves. about around 200,000 men are assaulted in prisons but only a small percentage come forward. a study done in 2010 by miller says that majority of them, about 35%, do not come forward due to embarrassment because they feel like a loss of immaculity. it also does not help that prison police in the prisons do not, they usually turn the blind eye to it and do not try to stop it. some of the effects in society themselves, they get a joke with such phrases that do not job to soap and even a popular tv series called snl, or saturn and ike live where they kind of have a segment called scared straight where they kind of glorify the life of a prisoner. some of the effects of not being able to come forward and talk about it are depressions to the cytosol thoughts, even death. our final sub topic is about how gender roles affect mental health. these roles that are shown are the stereotypical american gender roles. according to health guidance and planned parenthood, the gender roles for men are that they should be self-confidence and even a little aggressive at times, an appearance they should be tall and masculine and they should always be able to handle the problems by themselves. on the other hand, women are expected to be more emotional in understanding, an appearance they should be thin and graceful and they should always be able to care for their children. because of the stereotype that women are more likely to be emotional than men, they are more likely to see help. for example, a study done at clark university found that women are twice as likely to be diagnosed with depression, which could be caused by poor social status, low income or even gender-based violence. in comparison, men who are expected to keep their problems private have a suicide rate of 3 to 5 times higher than women. and they are 2 to 3 times more likely to suffer from substance abuse. these are partially caused by extreme gender roles. the chart on the left shows the suicides in males and females in the usa from 2005 to 2016. from the data provided, you can see that men will have a more difficult time seeking mental health. this is because of the pressures of society of what a man and a woman should or should not be. these are our solutions for the problems that we have mentioned today. a solution for gender roles negatively impacting mental health could be to teach children in school classes such as health and gym that it is okay for them to seek help no matter what their gender is. some possible solutions for male assault and prisons could be better supervision over the prisons, but better methods of speaking out and also having medical or mental health services talk to them. and a solution for how dress codes affect female education is if a dress code disproportionately targets a female student more than male students, then it should be changed or enforced fairly. and our overall solution for our main topic is more portrayal of gender based issues in media and in education and having discussions at a younger age and not press stereotypes or general's on children. thank you. good evening, everyone. tonight we are going to discuss the impact of racial bias in advanced academics. my name is nye king and i go to northern high school. my name is mary henry and i go to early college high school. my name is nye batson and i go to care into middle school. my name is jasmine ross and i will be attending into two of the development of young leaders. my name is maria sanders and i go to hillsett high school international baccalaureate. the big concept question that we will be answering throughout the presentation is how is racial bias impacted access to advanced classes and get their programs. advanced academics is mainly comprised into three different categories. honours, ap and id. honours classes run at a faster pace than ap classes. i mean, the standard classes. ap classes are established by the college board and they give you college credits if you take the classes and i be classes also give you college credits. this little background for our presentation and 1954 the brown versus board of education ruling integrated public schools nationwide. before minorities for being limited to this number of schools they could attend. this is what now we are being limited to the number of classes that we can attend. so as you see in the class, only 12% of the different ways that then white students attend ap classes and 88% of white students attend ap classes. so these are the causes in that segregation and how it impacts schools today especially in ap classes. so teacher bias. the disparities in discipline begins in preschool and what that means is they start judging you in preschool and 80% out of 80% of black kids in preschool, 42% of those students are more likely to be in the out of school. so they start judging you in the out of school suspension and a little grade. and that means teachers really do not want you to be in ap classes. and really teachers, some of them really do not care to lack of access. black students do not know about ap classes. and sorry. some teachers do not tell that black students are they need to be in ap classes. okay, so my topic is on what limits minorities access to advanced classes. our claim is saying that the achievement gaps in tracking are the causes of which teachers make expectations for students and also teacher bias and cultural bias, which is treating someone different because of their cultural background. and now i am going to talk about tracking tracking is academic. it starts as soon as kids start school, which is normally in kindergarten. tracking track students on a different path based on their academic performance, whether they are tracking that high achievement classes or low achievement classes is very difficult to explain, but i am going to try to shorten them. but white and asian kids tend to be tracked into a higher level classrooms and black and hispanic kids tend to be tracked into lower placement or lower achieving classrooms. as you can see, i have some statistics up there explaining exactly the percentage, but the quote is by archie duncan who is who was the us secretary of education. and explaining to the school districts that this is a big problem and it is re-sacrigating schools and classrooms around the nation and needs to stop. and also, the possible solutions for this problem include programs like leap. leap is a program for latinos and leap stands for latinos, excel and advanced placement. the program places students in classes and then support them by improving their social skills. it also encourages latino students to take a p classes that will benefit them once they are enrolled in college. the program has opportunities for the students to also be open to college tutors. the tutors will benefit those students when it comes to them receiving the college level work in high school. teachers and counselors also play a big role in placing students in advanced classes. teachers can create appropriate curriculum that will prepare the students for their advanced work and counselors can help identify those students who are ready to enroll into those advanced classes. in conclusion, it is possible to desegregate advanced classes but we as students faculty and government officials had to be determined enough to do so. thank you. good afternoon everyone. our research system was owned this golden prison pipeline. my name is tio walker and i will be attending london high school this year. my name is stadis king and i will be going to early college. my name is fulmi adiel and i will be attending city of medicine academy. my name is ronne homen and i am a resident in here at hills high school. our research question was how has the school to prison pipeline affect african american students academically? the school to prison pipeline is a system that funnels children at a school through and into adult and juvenile confectioner facilities through parish punishments. my research was owned the start of the school to prison pipeline and there are multiple starts and causes. the school to prison pipeline was a zero-toronto policy which was made during the school year war in 1998 to 1997. it was made to keep schools safe by keeping bullying and violence out of schools that made it twisted into feeding racial biases and targeting minority kids. i was a counselor to help students that may be acting out and instead of making them to isolated by making them not feel isolated and trying to solve the problem and trying to see if it is something from home. another one is principal choices as in the principal decides if a student is suspended it is spelled or anything if they get into a conversation with other students or teachers. they can leave them possibly going to court and be in front of the system. they also depend on sros to discipline and serve during their job which is for test students and making them feel safe by making them target students especially minorities and black students. and making them seem like every small thing that may be considered something bad i did not truly train them as criminals. this slide shows data and statistics to support this on the left side it shows over the united states of how on eagerly african-americans is are treated. the public schools are only about 15% but their 30% of them have been suspended at least once and 40% of african-american youth are in a different direction center. in the right you see demographics from drum public schools showing how many are in schools is actually 48% almost half of the school are african-americans but 80% of them have been suspended at least once. some of the effects in school are african-american students are 4 or 3.5 times more likely to be suspended than the white counterparts for doing the same thing. unnecessary explosions and suspensions and put kids behind in class and make it harder for them to come back up and learn and improve. this can also cause tension between the students and the teachers. for example if a student got into a fight with another student then maybe that teacher thinks that this student only likes to fight and you know we should target him or hurt. lastly kindergarteners are 82% of them have 82% chance of being suspended once or twice in their first year for doing nothing. suspensions and expulsions can really change the mindset of a kid which is why once he has lived school after being affected by the school to present pipeline they are often left broken and mentally unstable. a statewide study found that stool districts with larger rates of suspensions and expulsions have lower rates of graduating students. another study found that over half of black young men who attend urban high schools do not earn a diploma and of the job outs nearly 60% will go to jail at some point in their life. this makes it difficult to find jobs because many businesses do not want to hire former inmates which is the reason why they have higher unemployment rates. and the ones that do they do not pay very well which is why they have less pay. the possible solution to the school to present pipeline is the story of justice. the story of justice is our turn of criminal justice system. rrp. it is a national institute for restorative practices which are stored with justice programs and schools and is the first graduate school wholly dedicated to restorative practices. the school to present pipeline was started by zero tolerance policies that were put in place to make schools safe and actually did it. the solution to less than the issue such as restorative justice programs and community organizing for education reform. the school to present pipeline is the first graduate school to present pipeline. the school to present pipeline is the first graduate school to present pipeline. good evening everyone. my name is jaden and i will be arising sophomore at early college. my name is jonathan and i will be going to northern high school. my name is zachary and i will be attending the city of medicine. our subject was the prison industrial complex. our big question is how do policy makers go about creating the laws that benefit corporations within the prison industrial complex? our main topic was the prison industrial complex which is a term you subscribe the intersect the interests of private corporations and government. they use actions such as policing surveillance and imprisonment to meet their needs which could be financial, political or social. this is the 13th amendment. the 13th amendment says that slavery is illegal except as a punishment for a crime. this amendment was passed by congress in january 31st 1865 and ratified in december 6th 1865. this picture right here was taken during the sharecropping era which was an institution put in place after slavery. this picture right here was taken at a farm which uses prison labor. policies within the prison industrial complex are restraints your out mandatory minimums and tax code 3306. the restraints your out is you are given a life sentence after on your third felony. the mandatory minimums are the judge cannot sentence you to any time lower that can give you extra time. that is code 3306 says that labor done in prison or a penal institution does not count as labor or employment. the american legislative exchange council and the prison industry enhancement certification program are both influential in the prison industrial complex. allic is a group of corporations that help create laws that can authorize and increase prison labor. according to the baruch justice it is supposed to be a government program that puts prisoners in working environments and it was be paid rightful wages for that work. whether they are actually not paid very much at all around $5 to $8 a week. businesses that also benefit from the prc includes walmart, o foods, at&t and victoria secret. as i stated earlier, prisoners do not get paid very much at all so they can make high profit from this. individuals who benefit personally from the prison industrial complex are henry woodell. he made $25 million dollars and he made $25 million dollars on shares in the private prison industry and he served on the course of explore from 2001 through 2012. george zoli made $6 million dollars in bonuses alone and he also owns $23 million dollars in private prison industry. jerry middich and mitch serevich owns together $300 million dollars in the private prison industry. the geo and coursific are some of the largest lobbyists for the prison industrial complex. funding around $25 million in private prisons because of this they made $3.3 billion dollars. marco rubio is a big political factor. he has had close ties with the geo receiving nearly $40,000 in donations from them. all right, so groups such as alec play a big part in the prison industrial complex. they also have the power to pass laws that prohibit prison labor. solutions to end the prison industrial complex are the disbandment of groups such as alec and pi abolishing tax code 3306 and paying prisoners the right for wage. problems we could face while trying to abolish such tax code would be lack of support from our peers and rejection by the congress. right now we cannot do anything unless we are like to enter congress. so together we can go into congress and abolish this tax code. it is a hard thing to do but together we can make it possible. and to break up groups such as alec and pi we can petition them and expose them to the world who they really are. i know people already know much about alec but i is not really a big group known to the world. and this picture here is prisoners and they are making helmets or military and other military paraphernalia. overall slavery is unfortunately still the odd country today and if you were by cooper and mogul's we benefit financier for prison labor and are protected by laws within the pse. the prison industrial complex but with persistence and in hard work we can change these laws and thank you. good evening. our presentation is on the effects of media representation on perception identity and housing. my name is julius king and i am going to be attending the north carolina school of science and mathematics. my name is deja operen and i will be going to northern next year. my name is alex mccalman and i attain northern high school. my name is langston brooks and i will be going to jordan high school. so our main question was how does racial misrepresentation and bias affect identity and perception and also how do those perceptions affect displacement of minority? so a basic definition of colorism is the discrimination against a darker skin tone group of people. and so the american growth of colorism started during american slavery when slaves that were born out of interracial relationships that bore lighter skin tone, the thought of smarter, more intellectual than their darker tone counterparts. so this granted them different advantages such as better paying jobs but where you see this more vividly and everyday life is in the media. and so this is a quote by denzel washington and he is talking about his daughter who is an aspiring actor set nyu and basically in the quote what he is telling about her is that she is a woman she is black and she is also dark skin so she is going to have to work harder than anybody else in the industry. okay, so in a study conducted by social psychology quarterly 210 ninth and 10th grade girls were asked on a scale of one to 10 how important they thought it was for girls are age to read magazines the median or the middle of the data. so the response for black girls was a 2.5 while the median response for white girls was a 2.9. the black girls only read black magazines like essence and had a higher sense of individuality and self-esteem. so some examples of colorism in the media is in a study in 2017 70.8% of people in movies were white but also in the movie black panther. the majority of the cast was of african american descent and the portrayal was superheroes and warriors and also 6% of all characters in the harry potter movie series were minorities. okay, so this is a study conducted by the national study of american life. the graph on the left depicts racial centrality the amount race plays in your identity increase as the subjects consumed more black information. so music movies tv shows the graph on the right depicts the subjects opinion for public regard decreasing as a consumption of black information increases. so this decrease in the opinion of public regard leads to a higher support of affirmative action by individuals because of their segregated media into. a study conducted by the journal of broadcasting and electronic media found that on a scale of 1 to 5 the median response to 202 african american support of affirmative action was a 4.2. the study also found that there is a correlation between public perception and support of affirmative action as well as a correlation between the negativity of a representation of blacks and the amount of disregard for blacks by other ethnic groups. what is gentrification? gentrification is the process in which a wealthy population usually white moving to a neighborhood with lower cash value where there is mostly minority families. causes of gentrification are the appeal of old houses with charm. so these old looking houses are like some people like this aesthetic so that may be a reason that they want to buy them. and the renovation of old homes when people see old rundown homes they typically buy them and then they make them really nice and sell them for thousands of dollars. and higher property values when this nice house that is moving to a poor neighborhood then all the other four houses there. their property value is then rose to meet the wealthier wealthier houses price. and the graph shows some changes in some big cities and their homes. and then center city is where multiple business opportunities are so most people who live in center city want to live by their houses so their houses will be typically higher price. so those who have those higher paying jobs will pay more for those houses. and business attractions businesses go towards the population. so wherever the population is growing the businesses will go to have more customers. very often before gentrification occurs there might be a negative perception of the neighborhood. the google territories is represented to the media as a bad neighborhood. the gentrification. the google territories was developed on. it was developed on vacant lands used to pay time in the eu as a part of a large scale public housing development and during fun it by the housing act of 1949. during the process of gentrification african-american who were lower income or displaced displacement occurs in any household is forced to move from its residents. you major racially segregated projects were developed in the early 1950s. a few gardens on the right. for white people and mcdougal terras on the left for african-american. the solutions are to integrate the media with the r races attempt to change the negative representations of minorities in the media are representing representing formidable role models. and for displacement to address the city's greatest housing needs by expanding affordable units. for those who are in displeased. i am going to go to the next slide. how is everyone doing today? this is our presentation called policy implications on immigration. my name is paulson tarley. i am going to hillside newtook. my name is amlinovia. i am attending jordan high school. my name is nancy matute and i am going to northern high school. our research topic was within the last 10 years how have policies evolved and affected the flow of immigrants in america. recently on social media we have seen immigration policies and we have also seen reduction of immigration and refugees. a refugee is a person forced to leave their country because of war. we have also seen policies discriminating people from latin america and we have also seen people discriminate. like policies discriminate people practicing islamically. this is a photo of the greece and macedonian border in 2015. and this is a photo of a detention center in macau in texas in 2018. i will be comparing obama's and trump's policies on detaining immigrants. the obama administration turned to mandatory detainment after the summer surge of 2014 which was the surge of women and children asylum seekers coming from countries like el salvador, guatemala and honduras. on the other hand trump turned to the zero tolerance policy because the crisis at the border was out of control. on an interview in 2017 he states that immigration on the border has been the lowest in 17 years. both parties did practice detainment. their methods of detainment were different. the obama administration made efforts to detain families together and only separate them if suspected trafficking or fraud was involved. the trump administration however separated families based on if they entered the country illegally or not. in 2342 children were separated from their families between may 5 and june 9. in the year 1995 bill clinton who at the time was the 42nd president of the united states. that said we are a nation of immigrants but we are also a nation of laws. this is a statement that is still relevant especially over the last 10 years. as 10 years ago president barack obama was elected and during his time in office he was able to establish two programs for immigrants. those being daca and daca. daca was a program that was for illegal immigrants who were young adults below the age of 31. and he expanded it for parents of americans later on in 2014. these were deportation relief programs, illegal immigrants under work permits. some would be for two or three years. i will be talking about how policy type affected refugees in america. the executive order 13769 or travel band was a band preventing travelers and refugees from syria, sudan, iraq, iran, somalia, yemen and libya. the first band was lifted by courts because it was kind of like an anti-muslim band and the courts lifted that. sparing iraq and then the second one was blocked and marched by judges. the third one was supreme court, the supreme court reinstituted some of the policies on the band saying that no one from sean ties, no one from those places that has sean ties to the united states could not come here. on the graph here shows that after 9-11 refugees reduced from 2012 and right now that trump is in office, we can see that in 2018 the refugees have also reduced. the possible solutions i put make more make more rational laws not based on racial bias and maybe make programs for refugees. my solution for my research question, i said that there should be more programs similar to daca as it was actually revoked by president donald trump recently. and for policy strategizing, they should look to like make a policy that helps the country more than just for political gain. the possible solution for the detainment issues of the government should put more effort into providing better living conditions for those who are trying to enter the country. thank you. good afternoon everybody. my name is obs a. u.m.a. and i am a rising sophomore at josephine dobs, clemens early college high school. good evening. i am jacqueline rice and i am a rising junior at charles e. jordan high school. good afternoon. my name is isra phil brandon. i am a rising senior at middle college high school at durham tech community college. our research project is titled financial literacy, a stepping stone to prosperity and our overall, our overarching research question was, how do financial institutions continue to take advantage of financially illiterate and financially disadvantaged people of color? start off our presentation. i would like to ask the audience a quick question. if you take out a $1,000 loan that has a 20% interest rate, how much will you owe in a year's interest? now give the audience a few seconds to answer the question. if your answer was b, then you were correct. however, if not, then you may be along with the 2-thirds of americans who are considered to be financially illiterate. did you know that according to the financial industry regulatory authority foundation, 66% of americans are considered to be financially illiterate? financial literacy in short-term is defined to be having the skills to make a smart and informed economic decision. you may ask why majority of americans are financially illiterate and this stems from a lack of financial education in our homes and in our school system. according to financial expert ryan decker and his most recent ted talk, 75% of americans claim that they gain their basic financial knowledge from their parents. while only 33% of these parents claim that they frequently discuss finances with their children. this makes our parents as a primary source of financial education essentially a weak primary avenue. in the graph or map of the us behind me, five states in america require a semester among financial education courts. and according to the 2015 national report card on states' efforts to improve financial literacy in high schools, these five states were the only states in america to perform at an a in financial education. these states being virginia, tennessee, alabama, utah, and missouri. and as you can see, 23.5% of our states are failing with another 5.9% passing with a d. according to the us department of education, more than 40% of schools built in impoverished areas received poor funding from the government. and as you can see in the quote above by arnie duncan, who was a former educational secretary under obama's presidency, the quote in summary states that policies that are allocating teachers and resources are further perpetuating the problem rather than solving it. and well, my sub question to our resource topic was how does an adequate education from underfunded schools impact students' financial decisions. and the insufficient funding from the government causes a lack of school resources, larger class sizes which results in many students' educational needs not being met, and also more importantly, a lack of financial education in our school system. continuing on from an obsi address about how children receive a week foundation of financial literacy and education, i continue to look into how to select a financial literacy and young adult impact their quality of life in the wealth of their defense. according to the brookings institute, there is a very strong correlation between financial literacy and financial mistakes. this is great for people who have good financial literacy, but is very unfortunate for people who do not. there are many unforeseen consequences of having weak financial literacy such as accumulating debt, having poor money management, low credit, living paycheck to paycheck, and potentially having to go without. a study by operation hope incorporation made a test for high school seniors to measure their ability to make smart, informed economic decisions in the form of a test. year on the graph are their scores. in every year tested, the black students scored noticeably lower than all of the white students. this is not to go without saying that it is a shame that all of our students fail, but there is a racial disparity within financial literacy. i believe that cumulatively with other factors such as a lack of generational wealth and a lack of liquid assets that people of color, this impacts people of color in the racial wealth gap. this can be seen in the articles, umbrellas do not make it rain and the median family wealth between white families and black families. that median white family has about $110,000 compared to the median black families wealth of only $7,000. thank you. financial decisions, financial decisions aside from one's base of knowledge may be further limited by systemic practice. i believe that the great recession and event integral to one of the largest net decreases in black wealth was caused by the repeal of a law designed to place restrictions on the activities banks can engage in. my driving research question this summer was looking at once glass seagulls lifted what did banks do how did banks newfound freedoms and lending practice affect people of color. last in 1933 as a part of fdr's new deal, the glass seagull act was written to prevent banks from underwriting securities. in essence, by preventing banks from underwriting securities, financial institutions were forced down one of two paths. they could either be commercial institutions or investment institutions. while investment institutions deal in stock, commercial banks deal with businesses and the average person, you and i. upon glass seagulls repeal, commercial and investment banks merged. this merger permitted the treatment of mortgages as investment assets. because investors were eager to buy into the housing market, banks loosened their standards and engaged in predatory lending, predatory lending practice known as subprime lending. in a nutshell, subprime loans are loans that have low interest rates at first that quickly increase beyond a borrower's means of paying. at the time, investors thought that foreclosure is a non-issue, meaning that even if a borrower defaults, there is still a valuable house that can be sold for a return on their investment. the influx of subprime loans resulted in a staggering increase in home values nationwide, which is reflected in this graph from the us census bureau. it should be noted that subprime loans were disproportionately given to african-american latinx borrowers. i will be at the home ownership accounts for the majority of black wealth. when the housing market started crashing, circa 2007, the african-american and latinx rate of foreclosure, comparative to what the white foreclosure rate is alarming. according to the citizens housing and planning association, chapo, the completed foreclosure rate from 2007 to 2009 for african-american and latinx borrowers was 8% respectively and it combined 16%. this is staggering in comparison to the 4.5% of non-hispanic white foreclosure rate. this downward spiral came to a halt with the passing of the dodd-frank act. while the dodd-frank act failed to re-separate investment and commercial institutions, it did take measures to regulate mergers and ensure banks do not engage in risk adverse activities. while preventative legal action has been taken in the way of dodd-frank, i believe that once understanding of finances equally as important to institutional change in adjustment, here are some plausible solutions. i propose that we should strengthen dodd-frank by re-separating commercial and investment institutions to mitigate the possibility of banks engaging in risk adverse activities. our possible solution pertaining to the lack of financial education in our school systems is to require students to take a semester-long financial education course in order to graduate high school. because i have seen in my portion of the research project in the beginning, the only five states to implement the requirement of a semester-long financial education course were the only five states in america to perform at an a. and we believe that if other states in america were to implement the same requirement that financial education performances were also we can arise. to increase the level of financial literacy, the m&s bank offers a financial literacy program called money smart. and we encourage you to encourage any young adults and teens in your life to attend these free workshop-based events and five cities throughout north carolina such as durham, raleigh, winston-salem, greensboro, and charlotte. thank you. i would like to ask the third-year students to please come to the stage. so would you each introduce yourselves and indicate which school you have attended and also describe your final year project? hi, my name is akon kay mason-hokins. i go to early college high school. i am a third-year student in this program. and my research topic was looking at colorism and education and i was looking at disciplinary outcomes as well as achievement outcomes academically of darker skin students of color as related to lighter skin students of the same race. hello, my name is toby adiel and i attend city of medicine academy. and my research was looking at the correlation between fraternities and sexual assault on college. good evening, everyone. i am saunders-intillion. my third-year project focused on the effects of incarceration on mental wellness. i studied the causes of intergenerational effects on mental illness and the results of incarceration on inmates. my name is colin brown. i go to hillsont high school and my research was on comparing how the black wall street and tulsa and durham were destroyed. hi, my name is samuel phil pot. i attend hillsont high school and my research was on how the wall and drugs and the pharmaceutical industry conducted racial biases between drug abuse and how blacks were seen as criminals while many whites and rural areas with their pharmaceutical drugs. the pharmaceutical drug addictions have been treated and now we have opioid epidemics versus a war on drugs. on behalf of the 30th cohort, we would like to extend our appreciation to all the staff as help this research institute run. and here's a concave presentation of the gifts. hi, so firstly wanted to thank the directors of this program who put so much energy to making sure we had somewhere to go this summer or the past three summers to do something that was meaningful. so first we want to thank dr. wright. i will just say i am all dr. bullock also. thank you. and then also the namesake of this program is billy super aaron. you and we would also like to thank all of our instructors from the past three summers. so we have mr. beeman. gloria. miss bat. miss edwards. our intern miss alexandria miller. and then mr. michael. oh, yes. and then we also want to give a shout out to miss addison malone. she was our intern last year. she came all the way from new york. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. you have heard from the first year students their oral presentations and you have had an opportunity to see the poster presentations from the second year students. and then we will go back to the first year students to do in the booklet that the larger size booklet. so please take a look at their work. it is outstanding. congratulations. thank you. we are going to have some closing remarks. and the first person that we will hear from is dr. bullock. good evening. first of all, let us give another round of applause to all of these students. first, second, and third year cohort. and this is amazing to see. first of all, the first year students come up here with such confidence and poise. it is very difficult to get up in front of people and discuss topics that i mean they some of these topics they have just been learning about over the last few weeks or some of them they had already thought about them, but they really started analyzing them and more depth just over the last few weeks with the assistance of miss edwards and mr. beeman. and i also want to give a round of applause to the teachers. it is summertime. it can be a challenge to keep anyone engaged in this type of content over the summer. so it is just amazing to see what the teachers are able to do as far as engaging students challenging them to continue to grow and develop even in the summer. and then might would be rather be at home relaxing. and then the students who come to the program every year and show that dedication. it is amazing to see that. so i just on behalf of the school district on behalf of durham public schools, i just want to celebrate our students our first, second, and third year students and our fourth year students who came back as interns this year. shout out to them too. and a few of which are now i mean they are here this summer and they are going off to college in a couple of weeks, some of those interns. so their dedication to the program we truly appreciate it. and we thank you all for coming out tonight and supporting our students because as you can see, they are changing the world right now and it is amazing to see and i am proud of them. thank you. so when we first started the samuel du bois cook center on social equity, we had an opening ceremony that was held at the national museum and mrs. billy aaron gave a phenomenal keynote address. so we are going to ask her to give us some words today. not going to ask her to give us long and address as she did that evening, but i know you will enjoy hearing from her. thank you so much, dr. gerrardy. it is certainly a pleasure to be back with you and to see these young people perform and to see their exhibition or their presentations out front. and really i am both just excited that you chose to name the young scholars summer institute for us. i cannot say more. we are delighted. we are honored. we are pleased with the progress that you are making and we hope this goes on and on. but certainly you are preparing our kids for tomorrow. you know, ellen roosevelt once wrote that the future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams. we know these young people have dreams unimaginable. we know that they will go on to college to wherever they go and realize hopefully those goals that they have set for themselves. and much of that will be because they have had the opportunity to be exposed to this particular program. and i am absolutely delighted as i said before to be a part of the samuel duvois cook center on social equity. sam was one of our dear friends. his wife is still one of our dear friends. his family is a dear, dear family to us. and we are honored beyond words to be a part of the duke family who would have thought it. i never thought it. but here is my name on this program here at duke university, a little black girl from housing texas. never knew that this could happen. and what can i say? thank you. and the final set of comments comes from my dear friend. we are, we tend to root for slightly different teams when it comes to basketball. but on behalf of the cook family, sam jr. mr. reginald dean. thank you so much for your kind words regarding my father and as well as your inspirational message. dr. dairity, dr. wright, mrs. billy aaron, staff members of the cook center, students, parents, teachers, and duke university. the cook family would like to offer a heartfelt thank you for another amazing summer program. we would like to offer a special congratulations to the students that have been accepted to and participate in the hank and billy super aaron young scholars summer research institute. the, the excellence exhibited by all of you has been awe inspiring. one day it will be up to all of you to save the world, i believe. i also believe that you are young, gifted, and are on your way to becoming future leaders and role models. i know one day my children will look up to you. and one day other young children will seek to emulate the work that you have done and the excellence that you have provided. thank you again to the cook center for another wonderful summer at duke university. i believe that concludes our ceremony this evening. so as we usually say, eat, drink, and be merry. you