who is going to give me the signal when i talk to mom? who is going to do that? we got enough volunteer. look at how much time my family, my wife is here. it is a treat for me to bring her with me. abby is here. hello everybody. i am aaron beane. i know many of you. i am a member of the chamber. i am a small business owner. i have had the privilege of, shmarion, the privilege of serving you as your state representative. for many years, eight years we have had a great relationship. we had office hours, regular office hours on the west side. we did great things together. if mayor graham was here, who endorsed us, would tell you about the waste water sewage project. so when we flushed the toilet right here, know that it is gone forever. the work we did together, that was the chamber in the callahan city, city of callahan in your state government. now my opponent will call that an earmark. can you imagine him calling it an earmark? there are so many good things. he is confused. washington, dc, politics with local government in the state of florida. those are called community budget requests. and you know those are extremely important to our community. i am proud of the record. and there are dozens of things that we have worked together, including improving our schools. you know one of the bills i did. i am just taking one of the bills we did was fixing the a-plus education plan where it did not recognize schools that were all together. brycefield goes to school all together and they get rewarded when they are an a-plus school. but schools that are apart, like m-a-love, does not get rewarded before those a-plus. we fixed that. that was something that we fixed. here's where i need your help guys. i need your help. i am in a tight race. it is a foreign burner out there. truly what you do for me can make a huge difference. i am going to put it right now. his claim to fame is that he is from jacksonville. he is at an event i am sure in jacksonville. he says it is a jacksonville seat. that is what he says. and i beg to differ. and i think the people of nassau county beg that differ as well. the seat, yes it is nassau and duval county. most of duval county is a little bit different. but if we are going to have a shot, i need your help. i need you not only to devote for me. i ask for your vote today. any more? how about that? i am going to push the envelope and ask for more. i need you to reach out to others to say aaron v needs our help. can you support him? can you take a yard sign? can you reach out to somebody in jacksonville to say aaron v. not only represented nassau county well, but represented five other counties at the same time. so yes, we will be here representing you like we have always had. we will be fighting for conservative ideals. we will be fighting for those same community projects that we have always fought for. and i have got an eight year track record of bringing them home to nassau county. i will continue to do that. but also i will continue to make sure that we live within our means. that we have conservative ideas. let me tell you some good news. i think we are announcing today. the nra is going to come out with an endorsement of aaron v. we are proud of that record and proud of the united sportsmen of florida. we will come out for aaron v with their endorsement and their rating of me. but i need your help. i need your help and would love to have your support. there is so much i want to say and i am looking at my time. it is gone away. so it is aaron v. i have got yard signs. aaron v. aaron v. aaron v. aaron v. if you have any thoughts or questions or aaron, you need to be there. we are walking. we are totally committed to doing everything we can. we are going to be outspent by our opponent. but we will not be outwork or out doorknought. and that is my commitment to you. so join me. join aaron v. and the whole being team. and let us win this thing. thank you very much. have a great day.