a north east florida legislator winning leadership in the state senate. today, we are talking with senator aaron bean recently voted to be senate president pro tempory. what he will be working on next year in tallahassee and what it means for our region. plus, the end of the year is expected to bring an end to the city council's investigation of the j.e.a.s failed attempt to privatize. committee chair brenda priestley-jackson will join us to talk about the inquiry and the controversial proposed lajay development. these conversations just ahead on this week in jacksonville. good morning. thank you for joining us. i am tom willes filling in for kent justice. our first guest serves as the mayor of fernandine abiche and four terms in the state house. he is now a long time member of the florida senate. republican aaron bean is with us. good morning, senator. and first of all, congratulations. you have been elected as senate president pro tempory. besides local pride, senator, when it comes to nuts and bolts, what is that going to mean to our area? first of all, good morning, tom willes. it is great to be with you in the studio. although we are technically not together, we are together. so very good morning. and it is always great to be with you. it is certainly exciting for me, but it is exciting for jacksonville. that gives jacksonville a seat at the leadership table for the florida senate. work has already begun and i have spent the last few weeks over in tallahassee, planning the groundwork of how we are going to operate in this new era of covid. what kind of leadership will you have to provide to your colleagues, especially those on the democrat side? well, we all work together in the florida senate. unlike congress, there is a great deal of camaraderie in tallahassee. we are forced to work together because unlike washington, we cannot print money. and so we have to come together to pass a budget each and every year. there is only 40 senators. and so the committees are smaller. you must work together if you want to accomplish things. part of that job is a pro-temporary that i will be going forward with is really helping the success of all senators, as well as assisting senate presidents, wilton simpson. we are off to a very strong start. and i look forward. the second week of january is when committees will start for the new year. and we are going to hit the ground running. although covid has put a damper on things. and we have not yet finalized how the legislature during committees is going to operate just yet. we love to have an open sunshine government in the state of florida. but with covid, keeping people safe and distant is something that we are still finalizing the tampa general hospital, the epidemiologist at that facility, is causing us. and so we are trying to use best practices in order to operate a government and still give the public access. senator, do you have specific priorities for the legislative session next year? you know, next year, one of my jobs. i have got several jobs. one, of course, as senate, within the leadership realm of making sure everything is going well. i will be chairing once again health appropriations, which is the chief spender for everything health care in the florida senate. that is going to be a challenge. there is a challenge there that i want to continue to talk about. in terms of legislation, child welfare is something that has been near and dear to my heart for many years. we have done numerous bills on child welfare. we do well in the state of florida. nine times out of ten, we get it right in terms of child placement. but this last couple of years for me, we are going to focus how to get the other 10 percent, how to get it right almost all the time when it comes to child welfare. so we have got room for improvement. and that is an area that i will be focusing on come now, but officially in january. the late mayor, jake godbold told me once it is only fun to hold public office if you have money to spend anticipating the tax collections are going to be weighed down next year, allocating scarce resources may not be very much fun for you and your colleague, senator. tom willes, that it is a great question and i love jake godbold. we are, you know, we miss him. one of the absolute greatest mayors we have ever had in in jacksonville. he was absolutely right, though. he was absolutely right. we have a major challenge in the state of florida. as you know, we have to pass a balance budget revenues are down and we intend to pass a balance budget. with revenues down, we have to examine every method that we are spending money on every project in the state of florida, if reevaluate our priorities, but there will be significant reductions, significant reductions across the board. health care is one of our big silos where we spend approximately 38% of our money that in education or two levels where reductions are expected. but we know that every budget line has people behind that budget line and so we have to be very careful of how we go forward in spending our money in the studio right now. i know she is listening is brenda priestly jackson, who is a leader in jacksonville's city council. she is also a leader within the school realm. so we have to be accountable to everybody to make sure that all the reductions that we are looking at have the minimal impact on the constituents of which they are intended to serve. i am sending her our job as journalists is to hold your feet in the fire, but this is this week in jacksonville. you have been over there in the state senate for quite a while. you were in the house before. are there any particular bills that you have sponsored? this is your opportunity to blow your horn is what i am offering you. are there bills that you have sponsored since you have been in the legislature that you are particularly proud of that you would like to tell our audience about? great question tom willes and unfortunately we do not have enough time to talk about all the bills, but just last year two of the ones last year we passed a license plate bill that creates 33 new license plates with reform of making sure that when you buy a charity license plate. it goes that the money that you intend to go to that charity does indeed go to that charity, but with the 33 new license plates we created millions of dollars are going to be raised for charity all across the sunshine state without government, you know without government having to pay for those programs. i am excited about that we also passed last year reform on florida's domestic violence program. we had a very inappropriate system and we had abuses from leadership of spending money inappropriately on just enormous executive salaries. if you remember the headlines the executive director of that agency had paid herself seven million dollars over the last few years just to a total abuse of power and greed and we passed a bill to bring reform so that when we put money towards domestic violence it truly goes towards helping those that are in a horrible situation domestic violence to making sure the money is accountable. as a journalist i know you are holding people accountable we like to do the same thing in the florida legislature is hold the programs that we fund accountable for success. well speaking of holding people accountable are you troubled that the governor is not ordered a statewide mask mandate senator. i am not i am not he is allowed local local mayors he is allowed local county commissions their own their own way and what works best here may not work somewhere else the same way so he is he is done just a tremendous job keeping florida open but also keeping florida safe. dr anthony fauci says he is not going to be spending christmas with his three adult daughters for the first time since they were born because of the pandemic if you do not mind me asking you senator being would you share with us what your families christmas plans are. my plans are to bring bring people together i think we could do it in a safe way that christmas is such a such a a holy time i believe there is there is much mental health and seeing loved ones now we have i have elder i have older in laws that are coming to the bean house for christmas brunch but we are going to keep distance they have already told us that but we are so looking forward to seeing them. we nearly isolated during thanksgiving so we are going to expand the the invites towards christmas brunch but yet do it in a way where we can maintain a safe distance. it is such a personal decision for everyone senators senator being thank you for coming by merry christmas from all of us here at channel 4 and happy new year and again thanks for being here. tom thank you happy holidays. from state politics to the local level brenda priestly jackson from the city council is next on this week in jacksonville. nearly 30 years ago my father founded harold and harold with a passion for this community i am proud to be a part of a homegrown law firm with a strong commitment to our friends and neighbors. if you have been injured call or text us harold and harold. look thousands of americans are dying a day our lives have been turned upside down and they are doing nothing in washington. david purdue had his chance but he was too busy looking after a stock portfolio and now he is blocking relief for the rest of us. we can defeat this virus by listening to doctors and scientists we can pass direct economic relief we can get our daily lives back but only if we vote. i am john ossoff and i approved this message. goodwill industries is proud to have served north florida for over eight years your donations allow us to reinvest in the lives of people in our community people like tim. i got strung out on crack cocaine i would fallen into the abyss and i did not think there was any way out. i am a student at fscj i take the hvac class the astep program has really changed my life in a way that i cannot help but succeed. we are goodwill removing barriers to employment. at ferrin ferra we are proud that many of our new clients are referred to us by former clients. ferrin ferra protecting you and your family. you are up early too excited i have an idea come on. can we leave people up now? let us wait a bit. okay. can we just open one present? not quite yet it is almost ready. a pinch pinch pinch. you are up early. yeah. i have an idea. you are watching this week in jacksonville. joining us now brenda priestly jackson jacksonville city council district 10 ms. jackson is also the chair of the council's j.e.a. investigative committee. councilwoman jackson welcome first of all i am sorry we cannot be in the same room together we cannot even bump elbows together but i want to welcome you and thank you for coming by and letting us talk with you for a while. thank you for having me i am happy to be here. let us start with a proposal on developing lot jake and you just tell us where you stand on this pending legislation introduced by mayor curry and negotiated with the jaguars. well i cannot say at this point how exactly i will probably vote on the final piece of legislation i am reviewing it like many of my colleagues on the council. but i will tell you that my focus is probably a little different from some and so what does that mean naturally as a fiduciary agent or elected official we want to make certain that our neighbors get the best return on investment and that we do not support or finance something to the detriment of our other needs i.e. infrastructure and something else so that is why i start but i also think that this if it is the right deal can be a wonderful opportunity to somewhat pay something forward what do i mean. if we are able to off low the liability for the cleanup and mitigation of lot jay as well as have future and demnification of any liability and we flow from that to the developers that might be an incalculable return on our investment particularly for our gen z and millennials who are excited about the prospect of a live entertainment district and i would say why is that a pay it forward because unfortunately we have made a decision as a city. to settle them with repayment of the pension liability starting in 2030 so maybe this would kind of balance some of that out and that is definitely consideration for me in terms of clean clean up and of the site and future cost to the city. did you have specific questions for the jaguars and did you get your questions answered. i have not gotten all of my questions answered and they are not just for the jaguars or just questions in general related to that to one is of course going to be as i share the ability to have the developer responsible for the liability of the clean up and mitigation and future and demnification but also my concerns are a component for neighbors in terms of employment opportunities not just in construction but going forward and employment opportunities for neighbors that increase our tax base locally and all levels of employment that is available so that means i have got to be able to do that. i do not want them to just have service sector jobs we want middle managers and we want whatever other positions that may pay well above a living wage or establish a healthy middle and upper middle class lifestyle. i also want to know that what we do on like j is self contained what do i mean by that so the landing was a broad undertaking that never reached this actual full potential. i believe that with like j we have an opportunity to actually fully develop that and is scalable if we decide as a city we want to do that it is not contingent upon any other future development so we do not find ourselves with something that we modeled on another city that we never fully actualize and developed. this developer has done similar projects in other cities pittsburgh kansas city i think maybe louisville but you know the city council has not been able to take a road trip right to see exactly what this is going to be. right so i think i think a couple things there been some conversations and actually that started well before the city council currently became involved. unfortunately i think the timing of this is a little bit challenging because there is a sense of urgency and rush felt by the members of the city council and more importantly felt by our neighbors on a whole that we will rush to a decision without properly vetting this item. i can tell you as one council member of 19 that i am not going to do that i do not believe any of my other colleagues will as well but i think what i am aware of in terms of the development of the areas those areas are extremely diverse. i think a baltimore those areas have a development that i have seen not personally but i have seen on paper that would be attractive to that level of nature of development again scalable perhaps in the future for jacksonville. i think that as we work that out the answer is not do we do like j or finance like j and have the taxpayers pay the cost for that to the detriment of any other needs i infrastructure i except it is this is an opportunity to show our neighbors how we can do both how we can take care that every day needs of our neighbors which we are charged to do and i consolidate government and we can foster creative development for the future as well. let us move now to the committee that you are on and are now leading that has been looking into the failed attempt to privatize the j. e. a. will your report be released at the end of the year as scheduled it will be yes it will be so the the s. i. c. report special and vestigatory committees report on j. a. will be released by the deadline which is december 31st 2020 and i would anticipate that it will be available via website and hard copies right after we resume from our city council's recess it has been a very engaging informative informative 10 and a half months that we have been working but for council members i would contend that many of us have been working for 15 months this is what greeted us right after we became members of the city council and together with our neighbors many in the press the media and various various civic organizations we were able to maintain the municipal ownership of our local utility and make certain that we maintain our quality of life in jacksonville as well any smoking guns and that report council woman no and i do not think so i will tell you that i think that it is it is not with ethical considerations going forward potential conflicts going forward and i charge is to make recommendations from this that need to be changed in the charter right so we are not a criminal investigative arm you know we are the city council the legislative branch of the consolidated government of jacksonville duval county and i think that you are going to see not only the proposed redraft of chapter 21 that we have already undertaken but i will anticipate you will see the proposed charter changes from everything possibly to what are prohibitive transactions what kind of entities can be involved doing business with the city council the executive branch are independent authorities third party respondents to contracts procurement procedures and all of that so i cannot say where the line of legality and illegality was crossed in this but i can definitely say the line of the ethical considerations and ethical conflicts was definitely trampled in this thank you councilman brenda preach lee jackson thank you for your time and again from all of us here at channel 4 merry christmas to you and your family thanks for all you do and happy new year same to you and i wish you a happy new year merry christmas as well peace one final segment in our broadcast amy barnett will fill us in on the american civility association how they are stepping up to help make our schools safer stay with us on this week in jacksonville jacksonville different donating five hundred dollars with every new subaru so drive a subaru you will buy a subaru ladies check it out so strong so not wet what are we talking about that is the hefty ultra strong back hefty hefty hefty give me the bad get hefty ultra strong at a low price do you have dry cracked hands from constant washing cold weather and hard work try out keeps working hands it is america's number one selling hand cream for guaranteed relief for extremely dry cracked hands also available in a key slip repair guaranteed relief for extremely dry cracked lips. they have a gift help them open it unlock your musical gift with 0% financing on a new yamaha piano when paid in full within 24 months only at your authorized yamaha dealer. all windows and doors plus 18 months special financing is available. the board job is to have leadership fund is responsible for the content of the centralizing. here and savings and five hundred dollar donations with subaru of jacksonville during the subaru share the love event drive a twenty one out back for twenty six four ninety nine and zero percent financing plus complimentary lifetime warranty or two years maintenance. drive a subaru you will buy a subaru you are watching this week in jacksonville on channel 4. amy barnett is back with us today amy welcome. thank you so much it is a pleasure to be here tom and amy i say back because you and kent spoke in twenty sixteen about this organization and for those who do not know i would like you to describe what the american civility association is and what it does well the american civility association is a nonprofit with a mission to end bullying and school violence and today that mission is so important the violence has been escalating in our nation and that goes into the schools as well. in fact there have been over two hundred schools that have had shootings where there have been either injuries or sadly fatalities just in the last eleven years and thirty three of those have been since 2019. thirty three schools so our job is so important and that is what we are here for and we are making a difference and bringing some solutions. can you give me an idea about the difference that you are making and about the solutions. american civility has worked with a team of fabulous experts from the educational fields from medical fields and the neuroscience arena. and have developed programs we have under the name boss programs boss stands for brain builders operation safe schools and students are given the opportunity to develop skills and tools around brain building. they have learned that stress and anxiety are basically hijacking the oxygen in our brain and so when we are hijacked like that we cannot learn we cannot problem solve or be very creative and as the stress and anxiety and violence has escalated in our country so have the learning gains have been harder to achieve for students. so we bring brain tools such as gratitude kindness teach children how to care about one another show compassion and transform their school climates from meanness and rudeness and those negative trends that are out there right now in our schools those have been totally switched around to cultures of kindness. and the great result is that the learning gains have gone up the suspensions are down 35% the disciplinary referrals are down between 60% to 90% in some schools graduation rates are up. kids are coming to school because they do not fear going to school they are not afraid where over half of the children in elementary school say they are afraid of violence in school that something bad may happen so our programs actually equip them to be able to address those things and not be fearful. amy so much and congratulations in the work that you are doing and from all of us here at channel 4 merry christmas and happy new year. thank you and same to you tom merry christmas. thank you for joining us today cannot we will be back next week with the school superintendent of the year here in florida that would be our very own diana green plus pay center for girls stretching out to georgia this week in jacksonville airs each sunday morning at this time. thank you for watching and we will see you next week. see why every day more people are choosing news for jackson northeast florida and south georgia's number one source for local news.