here's jamie henshaw. how is everybody? i love all your faces. good to see everybody, like old friends here. so today we are going to talk a little bit about movies, a fun subject, kind of going back to the beginning of time and to the ancient gods. because what we are seeing now is that people in hollywood and the industry is being worshiped like it is religion. and it actually takes from religion. and so let us just get right into it. because hollywood is really, when you look at it closely, it is a religion of its own. and it is actually a composite of ancient religions called the mysteries. and we will see how the ancient priests banded together to form exclusive secret societies who performed sacred dramas at stated periods in time. and many of the mystery schools chose plays as a path of initiation. so there were varying degrees and many levels of priesthoods as most magical orders have hierarchies. but these priests were born into families of priests and priestesses. and they assumed the destiny of their family bloodline when their predecessors died. so secrets were told within families about the mystery teachings and the rights and passages of initiation things that common people never were privy to that kind of information. so outsiders were only permitted to join after a long course of study and fasting and ritual and a lifetime of dedication. and sometimes these initiation rituals could be extremely cruel. so there is a good quote that i found about the beginning of the idea of play acting and actors invoking gods into themselves to portray on the stage for people to watch. so it says the earliest gods were invoked by a ritual act, the dromenon, meaning the thing done, such as a sacrificial dance, commemorating the fact that our life begins and ends when the gods call upon us. and subsequently the thing was said as well as done and the dromenon was on its way to becoming the drama. so once speech within the temple precincts had been endowed with the power of word magic, we have the invocation properly so-called. so these first plays were like i said, just people thinking that they actually were invoking the god or goddess on the planet. so these initiations, these theatrical performances were the mysteries of the universe were supposedly revealed to the initiate and he himself played a role. and in the one example that i have is the third or sublime degree of free masonry where the candidate plays the role of grandmaster heimrambith. and this is from the movie from hell on the left and then you see a pink at a vma award. and so he is got his hoodwink on his cable toe, his pant leg rolled up in his chest-beard and then you can see pink doing the exact same thing at the vmas. so in the golden age of hollywood around the late 1920s or the mid 1940s, the film industry had actually operated under the studio system. and this means that certain companies control practically every process of the actor's life, they control the filmmaking, the production, the distribution, the exhibition. so they were just like a powerhouse of their own. and so although you will hear a lot of people talk about how the jews run hollywood or whatever it is actually more of a compositive, secret societies. and one of these they actually operate in is the mason's. and so the most powerful hollywood moguls in the beginning that 20th century fox and wb, jack warner, warner brothers, darryl zannick, louis b. mayer of mgm, paramount pictures, carl. somebody told me how to pronounce this. i do not know if you are here. is lemmally. i was lemmally? yeah. okay, so in addition to them being the hollywood moguls, they were also remasons. and this is the l-cappy-10 theatre in downtown hollywood. it is across the street from the codex center where they have the academy awards. and this was actually a masonic building before disney bought it. and right next door they have jimmy kimmel live in the old masonic temple. and so they are always like mixing new corporations and with masonic traditions. so also it is kind of reflected the importance of masonry and holly was reflected in that the academy awards used to be held at the shrine auditorium, which is owned by the scottish rite. so many of the rituals of freemasonry, they are actually based on trials that candidates were subjected to by the ancient hero fonts during initiation. and it is believed that harambiff was an initiate of the dionysus architects and builders. and so here we have dionysus. and this is from the disney movie hercules. and it is funny because dionysus is the ultimate god of party and revelry. and he was actually called the god that comes. so you can see some innuendos right here in the photo. what is he doing at hercules right there? but it is true that many of these ancient mystery schools were centered around sex. and so the dionysian mysteries they use drugs and other trans-inducing techniques such as dance and music to remove the inhibitions and social constraints for the purpose of what they think to return the individual to their animalistic beast like state. and so basically they were always constantly pushing the boundaries of what was considered taboo. and the initiation rituals from emma puberty were for the purpose of identifying the males as the god dionysus as the sexy drunken character. and then they even had initiation rituals for women where the young girl would have to become the bride of dionysus. but so if you thought that miley cyrus's current behavior was a little inappropriate you should have seen the shenanigans going on in the mystery schools in ancient greece. because there was nothing new under the sun and this is just it is all happened before and now it is coming back to happen in the public eye. so in the roman mythology like i said dionysus became bocchus and he is the ultimate party god. and so that is why like a drunken orgy is still called a bocchanalia. and for good reason because these people would whip themselves into a frenzy of intoxication and in the spring women would attend their secret ceremonies in their name and because he was the god of fertility right. and he had this divine role as a liberator of morality. and his wild and like untamed nature is a lot of times depicted as a large predatory cat. so it is interesting now that in the popular culture hermaphroditic symbolism is coming out a lot. transgenders a big issue right now because dionysus himself was actually imagined as hermaphrodite. and if he wore any clothes at all they were a feminine and his springtime festivals included cross dressing. and these large cats are also associated with hercules who in the mythos is a lover of dionysus. and they were often depicted in drinking contest and brawling and love making and things like that. so these dionysian mysteries like many other mystery schools consisted of two sets of rights. and these were the secret rights of initiation and the public rights. and so for greece and rome the stage was a sacred place where they were invoking the gods right. and where the dramaturgical interactions of the gods were the form of magical invocation. and so these actors would down the costumes of the gods and the playwright scripting the narrative would indoctrinate the masses into the appropriate morals of the state. or what they thought were the appropriate morals right. so it was in the beginning of theater there were two kinds of people the initiates and the profane. so there were in other words there were those that get it and those that do not. and so in the world of harry potter you have the magicians and the muggles. so it is the people who can see what is being acted in front of them and the people who it goes right over their heads. so every pagan nation it had like not only its state religion but the religion that the illuminated ones gained entrance. and so since these initiates thought themselves to be physically and morally superior to everyone else they believe that the masses had to be led like a flock of sheep and taught what to think in a single simple language. so public plays were highly sponsored by the aristocratic class but only the discerning few knew the esoteric message while the majority received only the literal interpretation. and the opinions of the masses the crowd were shaped by play acting and drama and stories and tales and myths and this is an early example of social engineering. so we were talking yesterday about the hollywood and actually that is an interesting point and i put it in the book is that the symbol of the oak tree is something that the druids used to worship their supreme deity, druids were very skilled magicians. so during legend in druidism about the battle of the oak king and the holly king and the oak king controls the light half of the year and the holly king the dark side. and so both of these are kind of identified with the god pan who i talk about a lot in weird stuff part two. and the holly trees what they would use to make magic ones from and even jk rolling has acknowledged this when she says that harry potter's one is made of hollywood and a phoenix feather which the phoenix is a bird of that is associated with mystery schools right. so she says it is made of a hollywood and a phoenix feather which is also very important symbol. i gave harry a wand made of hollywood back in 1990 when i first drafted chapter six of philosopher stone. it was not an arbitrary decision holly has certain connotations that were perfect for harry particularly when contrast traditional associations of you from which bolder morts wand is made. so yeah the holly has always been thought to have supernatural powers. so let us talk about hollywood royalty a little bit and royalty royalty which is gross but today the masses the worship celebrities the way that the ancient people worship the gods. and many even make pilgrimages to the holy land of hollywood to you know in hopes to see their deities in the flesh. and for some people you know life changing movies such as star wars or the matrix is the closest thing to a spiritual experience that they will ever have. so you may have noticed how often we see celebrities and world leaders walking upon these red carpets right just like they do at the academy awards. and this is a motif representing the blood path or the blood line coming down from the past and running into the future and along with winning politicians. so many celebrities happen to be descended from royalty. so now i feel like there is another revolution taking place in america it is a royal revolution. looking at the tabloids and the media coverage of royal families and princess programming for young girls and pop culture's current obsessions for all things of the monarchy. i mean how many times do we go to buy our groceries and look at the tabloids and it is all prince william and kate middleton and queen of england and all these royals right who gives a crap. but you know it is almost like the revolutionary war never happened at all because you know 240 years ago people were dying so they did not have to give a crap what the royal family was doing. so we could all think of ourselves as sovereign and not have to worship these leaders right. so from the coverage of the royal families to the cross generational appeal of the royal fairytale wedding. these kings and queens have reconquered us quietly using children's cartoons and pop music. and here i have an example of just one tiny example of the royalty programming that is going on in pop culture. this is katie perry's new perfume called killer queen. and you can take that for what you will. but let us talk a little bit about how the idea of royalty and the kingship even came into our consciousness as a species. so understanding the paradigm of this hollywood royalty programming will take us all the way back to the beginning of civilization and the leading deities of the sumerian creation were the sky god on you the earth goddess and the air god and the water god and so they were like primordial representations of natural forces right. but there is a lot of evidence to suggest that they were also sort of super natural giant humanoid flying beings that came and meddled in people's lives and affairs and when they would arrive the people's eyes would stare at them. and these are some gypsum figurines that they found in iraq and these would actually stand in for worshipers worshiping the gods at the altar and this is how they portrayed people looking at the gods with eyes this big right. so the sumerian people they tended to take a kind of tragic view of mankind and his fate and his destiny they were not very optimistic about being on the planet at all. they believed that the gods made man from clay and created them for a single purpose which was to serve the gods by supplying them with food, drink and shelter so that they might have leisure for their divine activities. and in ancient assyrian philosophy creation was considered as the covenant between heaven and earth as long as the humans served the gods until their death. and so have you ever wondered why certain families of the world they claim imminent rulership over the rest of humanity and make it their life's purpose to produce male airs to the throne and keep their bloodlines pure. here's a fact that goes right over most people's heads is that most of the world's royal families will trace their lineage back to a supernatural ancestor. so i am thinking of king arthur and his myth right and so the first kings like i will get to in a second gilgamesh he thought that he was two thirds god. and so they say that their their kingship their divine right to rule was let down from heaven meaning that these early beings that men considered gods they would have their city states that was dedicated to the one god and they were often at war with each other. and so babylonian and mesopotamian kings they legitimize themselves through the fact that they came from ancient ruling families these ancient aliens gods nephilim you know you can fill in the blank with your own understanding about that but they were beings that were not human that were creating civilization. and so these kings they would emphasize the fact that they came from the eternal seed and even the word on unaki means a princely seed. and so if you have ever heard of the word on unaki before you know what i am talking about but according their history the gods created the king directly following the creation of humans so that he could guide the humans correctly. and one of the first cities in the world was called ruk and one of his kings was the renowned gilgamesh and gilgamesh like i said he thought of himself as two thirds god and one third man and his mortality is the conflict of the epic of gilgamesh which is one of the oldest texts that is ever been discovered in the world probably the first book ever written. and he was always very vexed because he was part human and only the gods live forever and he wanted to live forever so in gilgamesh's character we see somewhat of a person who is obsessed with fame and intense preoccupation with his reputation and sort of a revolt against his part man nature. and then on the other slide next to him is enki-du which enki-du was a sort of beast master who was born with the wild animals and in the story they want to tame him so that he can be a companion to gilgamesh because gilgamesh is wearing out the humans with his decrees and his ruling that all the brides had to first be with him on their wedding night before they could be with their husband. so the people of the summer were like we need help so they go to the gods and the gods create enki-du so that gilgamesh could have somebody to wrestle with and preoccupy him. and enki-du was actually subdued in the story from the wilderness to come to the city to be friends with gilgamesh by a prostitute. so we will get into prostitution in just a second. but the tales of these ancient gods, it proves that they were never benevolent all knowing all loving deities only that they were physically and technologically superior. so they were given to all manner of earthly desires and emotions and competitiveness, hunger, fear, jealousy, sadness, anger and love. their contention and their empire building and their city state building were the driving force behind early civilization and human beings in these stories were simply caught in the middle under the will of the gods. and under them were the priests. so we were talking about the priesthood a little bit before and the temples of the gods were always in the heart of the city and that is what the city was built around. and they were served by a perpetual priesthood and these were the writers, teachers, scholars, astrologers. and this priest class was almost the most elite class because they dictated the religion. so a priest could be above a king because he had the spiritual power. and so almost all of the temporal power of society was in the hands of the priests of these mystery schools and the estates that they managed which was the entire city almost. so this is inana. and this is the sumerian goddess who overshadowed and outlasted all of the other gods at the time. she was the goddess with a thousand names and a thousand incarnations and she was worshiped in a great temple in a root along with the father of the gods on you. and she was known as the queen of heaven, both an awful and lovely goddess of love, war, sex and death. she is probably the most important goddess of the entire history and we will get into why i think that this is what is being incarnated through popular culture at this time. so she was always depicted as both a shy virgin and also essentialist mistress and she was a powerful warrior who drove a chariot drawn by lions, which were her sacred animal. and it is interesting at the beginning of time you have these hunter-gatherers that are just starting to form towns and cities and things and then you have the arrival of these beings and then you have a ziggurat. so it is like how did these people go from living in mudhuts to building ziggurats and accomplishing great feats of architecture and it was the arrival of these beings and that they are depicting right here. and so they came to love the city and more than nature and more than wilderness. i mean the sumerians if you read their testimonies they loved civilization more than kerry racheau loves new york city. it is the same idea, this metropolis, the idea of getting everybody together, concentrated so that they are more easily controllable and that they do not get the divine energies from the nature that they are supposed to be getting because we are all surrounded by buildings and bricks and streets and cars and everything that disconnects us from god and creation. so in anna's strongest culture in the cities that were most notable for trade such as phoenicia were also remastered comes from and they despise the wilderness and their definition of a wicked and a person was an uncivilized person who lived in the mountains and did not practice agriculture. so it was in fact it was an honor herself who was most responsible for civilization as we know it in the first place because there is a story where an honor horizon or a ruckus city and she arrives with these objects they call the may, it is called a pronounced may but it is spelled m.e. and these were the various types of supernatural objects and ideas that amounted to civilization so where does the idea of real estate come from? king ship, let us see the list here, says the may is a set of rules and regulations assigned to each cosmic entity and cultural phenomenon for the purpose of keeping it operating forever. so the way that she obtains the may is in a very luciferian way and you can almost say that in anna has a lot in common with lucifer because he was the one that took the fire from god and brought it down back to earth for mankind to enlighten him. but in this story she is called the holy torch which is also a symbol of lucifer and she was anxious to increase the welfare and prosperity of a ruck and make it the center of civilization, the center of the world. and so she goes to the realm of the gods and she gets drunk with enky, one of the creator gods and he gives her the may and says these are yours and you can take these back to your city and so basically you are the queen of earth now because you have the set of rules for governing humanity. so in this list there is like almost 100 things listed including crowns, tiaras, the throne, the staff, the measuring rod in line you can see on the right side she is holding like a circle in a bar. so this is how they would measure off real estate for agriculture and planting as they would take a stick and put it in the ground and then tie a rope around it very easy way to, you know, portion off pieces of land for real estate and ownership. she also brought the idea of priests and priestesses, she brought the idea of the sacred marriage of weapons, ceremonial robes, hairstyle, love making, i mean the list goes on and on. music, the art of the hero, metal working, fire, so there you go. so she brought fire to mankind. so yeah, the may were the samaritan values and governing structures that organized their society and they were conferred by the gods onto the king priest who was supposed to be like the god on earth and he was the representative of the god on earth and it was his job to ensure the continuation of the civilization the way that the gods saw fit. so, and on as may also included public love making and the kissing of the phallus and temple prostitution and these were ritualistically performed during their new year's festivals in the spring and autumn called the akitu. and so imagine coming out twice a year to see your neighbors going at it on the designated day because this was the day for fertility and this all came the idea of doing this in public came from these ancient gods. so, you know, if you were samaritan you might not have been so shocked at what you were seeing on television today because maybe it was nothing compared to back then. but there is a good quote here it says our own demographic is very strange in comparison to the usual experience of humankind young people move to the cities of their own free will so their cities were essentially young adult societies. the closest modern comparison would be the mid 1960s when the baby boomers came of age when the baby boomers were young adults the elderly still were not living that long and birth control became readily available. it was the age of sex drugs and rock and roll it was similar to samarian society. so, the canadians of mesopotamia they incorporated the samarian culture wholesale and melded their goddess ishtar i mean anana with ishtar. and so the identification of these two goddesses was partly due to sargon the great a great king not a great one but. important one. who conquered sumer and most of western asia and so to help him control the restless and rebellious populations of the samarian cities he appointed his daughter as high priestess and spouse of the moon god. her and of the sky god in a rook and so for 40 years she held this priestly office and will the great power among the mesopotamians and she elevated the anana ishtar hybrid as the supreme goddess of the empire and gave her the rank the queen of heaven. and she is remembered today primarily as the first poet in recorded history who actually has a name was a woman. so it was at this time that the insatiable ambition of kings was transformed from the idea of winning the favor of the goddess of love and war to rule their city states into one of more of a world domination. and so ishtar had been worship by sacred prostitution in her earlier incarnation as anana the practice reached its height in babylon which is why the goddess is remembered in christian mythology as the horror babylon. and so besides the many time full time temple horrors that they had working there. the act of this sacred prostitution they told them that it was a way for women to identify with the goddess and receive her blessing and fertility and for men to be blessed by the conjugation with anana's representative. and so this type of religious sexuality might sound glamorous but it is highly unlikely that the prostitutes were voluntary. you know prostitution is slavery. i do not think anyone is going to argue that but they try to make it as glamorous and sexy and desirable and not as shameful as we all know it is. and so what i have here is a medieval representation of the horror babylon on her great dragon with the heads and you know the beast of the abyss and it is actually lady gaga. i do not know if i should throw this in but if you are more interested in learning about that we did a very good special on the katy perry super bowl ritual when she arrived in the super bowl on time. and so the top of the line which is anana's animal holding the reins in a flaming dress just like the last card from alistair crowley. so if you are more interested in that i would suggest you check it out. but ishtar was referred to as the goddess who could change men into women and vice versa. so androgynous priests and priestesses were called reed people and they served in temples as seers of the divine. and so the people with a typical sexuality were given special status in ancient summer and were thought to have abilities of supernatural religious value. and so the mesopotamian interpretation of ishtar is a gender bender and as the morning star venus is her planet and in the morning it is male in the evening is female. and so this could be a reason why we are seeing this trend of mixing the genders together because i think that they are trying to incarnate these ideas from the beginning of time. so ancient people were fascinated by her maverites. the spring akitou festival along with the public ritual of the sacred marriage that was performed by the king and the priestess of anana. they also had a parade of crosswrest dressed worshipers who would wear half men and half woman costumes. and so with a devotional ceremony they would honor anana and rejoin themselves to her light. and so androgynous clothing was symbolic of the goddess and they believed that she existed as the opposite sex in each person. so taverns were also brothels and they were sacred to the goddess and sex with a prostitute like we were talking before was a religious sanctioned activity. and this gets pretty dark because boys and girls became prostitutes as children because they were raised in this and only allowed to exit the poor house and serve in other capacities when they reached adulthood. so temple prostitution was so common in the ancient world that there are many specific verses in the bible that actually condemn this practice. so by the iron age, ishtar was well integrated into the pantheon of most religions. and so all goddesses that you see springing up through history, you can trace them back to anana. and on the left you see a statue that they found and these were actually rigged with water so they would spout water from that little hole that she is holding right there. and so throughout the literature in the bronze age, kings declared that they were the lovers of anana ishtar and the story of the courtship of anana and dhammuzi established the principle of the sacred marriage for fertility. and it was the relationship between the king and the goddess that was the king's source of power. so human kings of aruch, they claimed legitimacy to the throne by their emulation of dhammuzi who was anana's husband and her is favorable relationship with her. so here the high priestess would unite with the king of the land who represented dhammuzi and this important festival like we were talking about with last for many days and occur around the time of the autumn equinox. so the cult of priests, they really benefited from preserving the sacred marriage rituals because this legitimized new kings coming into conquer. so when a new king would come and conquer the city instead of being slaughtered, the priests would come out and say it is anana's will that you have won this battle. you can have our city as long as you keep our ritual and continue to have the sacred fertility public ritual for the people. you are the new king as long as you are making love to anana and public and so it is kind of a win-win for whoever won that city, right? but what does this have to do with hollywood? here's another picture of this is called the investiture of zimri lim, king zimri lim and you can see anana passing the divine right of rulership with the rod and the circle right there to zimri lim. so hollywood has been associated with ancient babylon since its very inception and during the onset of the great depression many americans believe that the country's financial hardships were the result of a moral decline. so they were harping a lot on hollywood and blaming hollywood for the ills of the country and they called it babylon in sin city. and so really no ancient city is more famous for its mysteries than babylon because it literally means gate of the gods. and this is marduk. and this is from a cartoon called i am the city from the real ghost busters and we will talk a little bit more about marduk in a second. but babylon was very much like los angeles in the ancient world as the important center of popular culture. and it is not surprising that the astrology and the star chart comes from babylon and in the ancient times the zigarat of edtaman tanki towered over the city and it was ruled by the god king marduk. that is just a cartoon but you can go and look at ancient depictions of marduk but he, let us see. so things kind of changed a little bit when babylon became the center because the right and rituals switched from the focal point being anana and the king in the sacred marriage ritual from that to marduk gaining power over the gods and becoming the king of the gods and the king of babylon at the same time. so here is the kodak theater in the center of downtown hollywood and highland. and this opened in 2001 and it is the permanent home of the academy awards. and so this is where the hollywood royalty parades down the red carpet on their way to receiving the oscars. and the decor is taken from the 1916 movie intolerance by a freemason who is dw griffith. and the ancient babylonian story in the movie depicts the conflict between prince belches, our babylon and cyrus the great of persia. and in the film the intolerant priests of marduk who is also called bell attempt to suppress the worship of ishtara and betray their king. and that is the old movie that this is taken from but this is also an interesting arch in itself because this is the babylon courtyard they call it and they have four story columns top with standing elephants. and if you look through there you can actually see the hollywood sign in the background. so on either side of the arch are two curious characters the figure on the left holding the basin of water is similar to the winged genie of a syrian iconography and they appear in the reliefs and walls throughout palaces and temples in various ways. and this one is actually on the left i would say that this is enki or ia because he was always depicted as a god of water who held a pot of water in his hands or with streams of water erupting from his body. and the creature on the right by the better one. yeah, there is a syrian eagle god named nuskou who was originally depicted as holding a pine cone like object. and i guess you can see it a little bit in here they have kind of in the originals it is a lot bigger and more pronounced but they have kind of shrunk his little pine cone in his hand. but he is the messenger of marduk and a god of the stylus. so then the squiggly thing between them. this is the syrian tree of life and this was the original tree of life thousands of years before the kabbalah depending on which tradition you describe to. but there appears to be a general consensus among experts that this tree was related to creation and fertility and it is a representation of the human body and the ideal man. and it also refers to the organization of the material world by marduk and the king is portrayed as the human personification of the tree and in some representations the king actually takes the place of the tree of life. so the grand entrance into the city of babylon was called the ishtar gate and it is made with blue bricks and deck rated with approximately 120 lions and which is why it is sometimes called the lion's gate. and it was excavated in the 20th century and reconstructed in a museum and it is now at the pergamon museum in berlin that is where you can find this thing. and so during the celebrations of these new year's akeetu festivals statues of the deities were created paraded through the gate and down the processional way for everyone to worship and is not interesting that so many film companies have this lion motif. there is lion's gate films. there is a lion's gate actually brought us the twilight and the hunger games and american psycho and all of these negative movies. but i just thought that was very interesting that you know the lion's gate of babylon and now you have the lion's gate production company, right. so this is in hollywood and then you can see the little wing genie in the king only in los angeles. can you visit a syrian ziggurat and buy a corporate crap at a discount? this is an outlet mall. the citadel outlet mall in commerce, california is built in 1929 and this is a replica of the fortress of der sharuken of sargon the second and complete with all the battle scenes, the wing genie, the wing bulls and the human head guys called the lamasu. the syrians were very hated. they were one of the most fearsome and warlike and barbaric civilizations that we have ever studied in history. so they tell us of their bloodthirst and sadism and their perfection at war. so having an assyrian themed outlet mall is kind of like having a nazi themed farmers market. it does not make sense. but. so let us talk about sorcery for a second because if it only takes six degrees to get to kevin bacon in hollywood, it takes even less to get to alistair crowley and salima in my opinion is the hidden religion of the 20th century. and hollywood is one of the main epicenters for global sorcery and mind control. and so movies are magical ceremonies and their mode of operation is mimicry or sympathy. and some directors know exactly the potent magic power of movies and use it to enlighten or enslave depending on the makers. so two hours in front of the screen watching movie like the matrix could sufficiently initiate even the most naive person to the level of the first degree of a cult apprentice if they realize what they are watching. so alistair crowley's religion and if you saw in the beginning of the very first slide that was from the game of thrones and that is their religion in that show. and it has this same seal of babylon. so we were talking about anana, ishtar, korobablon. this is what the goddess is turning into now. they are using a fellow mites believe that their goddess babylon is a composite of kali and ishtar and the korobablon from revelation. so his motto of do with that will is the anthem of the music industry if you listen closely. and even though he died nearly penniless and fighting a heroin addiction his legacy is nevertheless nothing short of colossal. so it is a sign of the holy spirit and it is a sign of the holy spirit that was created by alistair crowley and it was created by elrond hubbard who was a protégé of kroly and who took hypnosis and black magic and made it into a long drawn out an expensive torture session. so a sign of the holy spirit would not be nearly as successful as it is today without its celebrity endorsements. so in the same way it is believed that the history of humanity can be divided into a series of aons and each was accompanied by its own forms of magical and religious expression. and the book of the law is divided into three sections and talking about the an of isis, the an of osiris and the an of horus which is what they believe that we are in right now, the an of horus. this is supposed to be the idea of there is no such thing as sin because horus is like a selfish child god. and so even the very idea of something being sinful they would tell you is a lie and an obstacle to your self-fulfillment and instead each person will be governed by their own self-will and self-interest. the feminine counter part ii horus is where we are talking about the scarlet woman, the babel on bab, a. l. o. n. and alex kroly was very sexist and held to all the misogynistic notions of the victorian era. he was struggling against excessive repression and never really treated women as anything but sexual playthings and he wanted them to behave like nymphomaniacs. he only ever used the women in his life for sex or money or both and most of the women who got involved with him ended up mentally or suffering drug addiction. and so on the left is one of his scarlet women who he would actually brand with a haw iron on their chest, his version of the mark of the beast, the circle and the cross. and then you have a lady gaga in there as the scarlet woman which they will dress them in red. you will notice after an initiation or a big performance they will always re-emerge as the scarlet woman. so they call their goddess babel on the mother of abominations. and yeah her god form is based on this like we were talking about the sacred horror ishtar. and it is believed that she could be in a vote to earth and her role could be filled by actual women as the counterpart to his self as the great beast and help manifest the energies of what they want in this a-anaphors. so aleister kroly he actually believed that many of his lovers were playing this role to the fulfillment of his prophecy. and the thelmaids believe that the scarlet woman as well as the role of the beast can be fulfilled by any magician who so chooses. so this is what i think that they are trying to put on these girls who are under monarch mind control. and when they get deeper in it they are actually elevated to the level of a scarlet woman. so some people will try to whitewash kroly is a kind of harmless libertarian dumbledore kind of figure but the morals outlined in his teachings contain statements that from a humanitarian point of view are way more than objectionable. and his book is anti-compassion, anti-democracy, anti-emotion, anti-sympathy, pity or brotherly love. and so the chief concern of a thelmaid is following their own individual true will. and so nowhere in the book of the law are you instructed to be concerned with the rights of others. and if the doing of your will includes hurting someone else or thwarting their rights then so be it the might makes right that is the idea of this whole religion. and not only that they consider whoever can win is deserving and they even have a dictum the slaves shall serve. so in occult terms thelmaid is a dichotomous seeing himself as a superior being or a chosen one and while everyone else is nothing. and the concept of following one's true will takes no account for the fact that we exist in an ecosystem and it is not a universe unto ourselves because we are showing the space with everyone else in the real world damage to others and your environment equals damage to yourself because we all have to share the space. so the book of the law is actually based on social darwinian feudal stratification and this is what we are talking about royalty programming. it is the princess and the commoner right and the peasant. so crowley, crowley belonged to an elite class. he was born with money and this dictated his view of the world and including his view of an ideal world. and he is one passage revolves around the idea that the slaves shall serve forever. he says, yeh, deem not change. you shall be as you are and not other. therefore the kings of the earth shall be kings forever. the slave shall serve. there is none that shall be cast down or lifted up all is as it ever was. so here the his feudal ideas are in full force and what he is saying is there are kings and wealthy people and there are slaves and beggars and nothing in the lima or hollywood or monarchy is designed to change this paradigm. there is no promise that slaves will be set free or that beggars will become rich. so to them the person is either one or the other and they give no reason for believing why this should ever change to them. so he actually said there is only one solution to pick out the diamonds from the clay, cut them, polish them and set them as they deserve. you will observe that i am advocating an aristocratic revolution. and so i am. and remember that katy perry royal revolution, right? so his ideal government must lord over and manage hordes of ignorant masses. he said we should have no compunction in utilizing the natural qualities of the bulk of mankind. we do not insist on trying to train sheep or hunt foxes or lecture on history. we look after their physical well being and enjoy their wool and mutton. in this way we shall have a contented class of slaves who accept the conditions of existence as they really are and enjoy life without the quiet with the quiet wisdom of a cattle. so here is a photo from bohemian grove. and you can see behind them this is the representation of their ideal society. so you have a priest in front with a staff and like a pope-like figure. and then you have the banker, a aristotic class, and then you have the servants who serve them. and then you have the businessmen and on and on until you get down to peasants. and you know, this is the way that they feel that society should be run. and hollywood is their major mode of indoctrination to make you think that this is true also. so through these art and artifacts, the ancient kings, they really revealed themselves to be militant and pompous imperialist who thought nothing of deporting entire tribes. or torturing prisoners of war to build their kingdoms like babylon and aruch. and base released from the cities of nimrod and nineveh featuring kings conquering armies, strutting, slaughtering, leading thousands of people, deporting them, making them build these buildings. so whenever you see these great giants. okay, good. and you see these feats of architecture just remember that it was built on the back of real people. and this is actually the picture is from what is it? king sinacarib of assyria. and even in the writings he glots and says, i deported them and made and carried the head pet and molded bricks and subjected them to my slavery. slavery was a recognized institution from the beginning of time. and even in messimtamous society. and so these temples, palaces and richest states were owned and exp- owned by the magician priest class and they exploited slaves in their temple prostitution. so if we want to see how the babylon system is working today, you know, look no further than hollywood because this is the spell that, you know, ancient people used to use the stars to navigate and to tell time and to, you know, to follow the stars was how you got from one place to the other. but now they have everybody looking at these stars in hollywood who they created instead of the actual stars. so when they were owned by the studio system that was also a sort of form of slavery, you know, the studio did as much as possible, even dictating social activities, even down to who a certain star would marry. if a star was gay, they would have to get a fake wife. so they pretty much controlled every aspect of these actor and actresses life. so i guess that it is on the left. you can see sargon in anana again and they are standing on the backs of slaves. and free your mind, i think, is one of the best places to combat this slavery and we are learning all about trauma-based mind control and we are learning about, you know, just the... okay. all the different ways that our mind is enslaved and so what we have to do first is to start to free our mind. oh, okay. and it starts by freeing your mind and it starts by sharing it with other people and so do not let this kind of information get you lonely. i wrote these books so that you would have a tool to share in a way that is easy to get people to understand what you are trying to tell them. it is full-color pictures and it was written for the demographic i was thinking was teenagers because i think that, you know, children are the future and we have to educate them in real things instead of just hollywood and fake school. so i really hope you enjoyed my talk and i hope you will check out my book.