hello. welcome to the billy wilder theatre. i am claudia bester. i am the director of public programs and i am very pleased to welcome you to this afternoon's talk by greg bordewitz. here to introduce our guest speaker is johanna burton. johanna is the keith haring director and curator of education and public engagement at the new museum in new york. she is also the co-curator of the hammer's exhibition. take it or leave it. burton has curated or co-curated a number of exhibitions including sherri levine mayhem at the whitney museum in 2011. and she is written essays and edited books on artists like cindy sherman, mel bachner, cytwombley and marilyn minter. so please join me in welcoming johanna burton. thank you all very much for being here. and it is my great honor and privilege to introduce a figure that has long been a part of my life even before i met him. i am going to give three versions of this introduction. the first is greg bordewitz is a leo who likes to sky dive. second part is not true. i learned this this morning. the formal introduction for greg bordewitz is, greg bordewitz is an artist and writer. he is the program director of the school of the art institute of chicago's low residency mfa program and a long time faculty member for the whitney independent study program. recent performance-based work includes testing some beliefs, an improvisational lecture, presented in chicago, new york, philadelphia and texas, sex mitigating death on discourse and drives, a meditative poem performed at the tate modern in 2011. and the history of sexuality volume one by michelle foucault and opera presented in vienna in 2010. books that have been produced by greg bordewitz include general idea, image virus, published in 2010 from after all books and the aids crisis is ridiculous in other writing's 1986 to 2003, published in 2004 by mit press. and for those of you who know the very formidable part of his practice devoted to film and video, fast trip long drop from 1993, a cloud in trousers 1995, the suicide 1996 and habit 2001. now here's a more personal introduction. greg bordewitz is an artist, theorist, poet, activist, teacher and friend. he is a critic and an advocate, a producer of experimental new forms of engagement in a guardian of history, a tough loving caretaker and a crafter of counter narratives. radical change, bordewitz has stated, is a matter of altering the entire culture's view of reality. that is no small order for considering arts place within society and the possibility that what and how we operate within art has such effect was in large part what drew me to participate in art at all. it has been an honor to know greg over the years. like many of the artists and take it or leave it, greg has been a mentor and an inspiration, not only to those of us lucky enough to know him personally, but also for many more, who in their quest to locate ways to think outside, various conservative or limiting frameworks have stumbled onto or into his practice. as i said, i knew greg's work well before i ever met him. through the work he and his friends and lovers had engaged in as the aids crisis reached an unthinkable magnitude, which remained unacknowledged by the government first as existing at all and later as health and ideological crises demanding its support. via his wide-ranging individual artistic practice and early collaborative activist platforms, including actup and diva tv, bordewitz's history of enacting the ways in which art can not only operate politically and passionately, but passionately, made his presence at the opening of this exhibition obvious and more deeply grateful to have him here. his commitment to sustaining the challenge to an expansion of what marx critical practice continues to keep debates about the role of art within culture alive. i met greg when i attended the whitney independent study program, a context that also introduced me to almost every artist in this show, who literally paved my way for thinking. i offer this introduction as a thank you and an acknowledgement of greg's ever-generous, mostly optimistic, but also darkly realistic, life's work. you have truly changed the landscape, greg. today, in his keynote address for take it or leave it, greg will present materialist geography in the night's move. this is obviously a title that borrows herm viktor schloffsky's formalist interpretation of conventions of art within soviet culture of the 1920s. and i look forward to hearing what you have to say, greg. after the talk has been given, we are going to be open for about 20 minutes to q&a, so we will open it up as soon as he is done. so with that, welcome to greg bordewitz. hello. thank you very much, johanna, for that very warm introduction. and thank you to johanna and anne for inviting me to give this talk today about issues of institutional critique and appropriation and i am going to go at it from a number of directions. i want to thank you all for coming to hear the talk. all right. all right. i want to start by putting two or three figures in your mind rather than starting with quotes, but rather, i do not know what to call them, images or problems. the first is the problem of the many-selfed person. the many-selfed person. this has been theorized by quite a number of theorists, but i have not minded this moment, a psychoanalytic theorist who i admire. very much steven mitchell, who wrote a book called, can love be saved? and actually, the many-selfed person is central to his work, but that book is not about that. but there is this passage in the book about mitchell and his associates going to social events and walking through the social events and after which the mitchell's associates said to him, you were a different person with each person you talked to at the event. and so he actually sat down with his associates and then they worked out. there is an amazing kind of like three, four-page passage about what it means to be a many-selfed person and how identity and character is something that coerizes between people that actually you co-produce it. there is a third term, always guiding or somehow not only guaranteeing the veracity and credibility of the exchange, but also shaping the exchange or encounter between two or more people. and mitchell arrived at this notion of the many-selfed person as actually a model that was not pathologized in any way in terms of multiple personality disorder or anything like that. that is not what he was talking about at all. he was actually talking about the fact that identity is something we produce in the moment from moment to moment in each encounter from one to many, many to many, and between two. so that is one notion or figure i would like to put in your head. the other one is drawn from william james. william james said that the mind is a many-sided polyhedron that actually is turned to rest or pushed to rest on different facets by profound experiences. i like this figure because nothing substantially changes about the substance of the mind, but rather only its orientation as it is pushed through a profound experience to come to rest on a different facet or plane of its shape. that is the second figure, like to you to keep in mind. the third is the notion of world creation, which originates in each person's development is staged as a set of relations among the baby or developing young individual and its caretakers. i am specifically thinking of the figure of the two and three-bodied person or subject, which is something we get from the great psychoanalytic thinker and clinician, dw winnecock. as soon as i say winnecock, i immediately think of much of mary kelly's work and the way she has documented this process of staging. i am thinking about post-potering documents, but other works as well. those are the three figures. the many-self subjects, the many-sided mind and the two and three-bodied figure of the human psyche. these are the three figures i arrive with because this show presented a great challenge to me in terms of the problem of how to show up. i am really glad to be here, and i want to show up. i really have this question about how to show up for you. i do not even know who you are since you are in some ways, in many ways, a fantasy, although many of you are dear friends. you as a collective body that i address at this moment is a fantasy. i did not know who you would be, so i did not know who to show up as. on wednesday in new york, i gave a reading at the poetry project and i showed up as the poet, writer, great board of wits. this show has me thinking about the institutional critique and my involvement with the development of that term and practice in the early 80s with a group, a small group of friends and close associates who i am going to talk about. a much larger group of people who were great influences on us, like i could name so many people in the show, like mary kelly or barbara krueger or louise lawler, martha rolston. there is so many people in the show, i should just name the list of the show basically, of all the people who were not in my immediate peer group when i was 22 or so in new york in the 80s. also i can just show up as a person who was there. there being a very narrow slice of new york in 1982 when i first arrived from the boroughs to manhattan. and then it was a big deal. you were a bridge in tunnel, right? which does not really mean so much anymore. not you personally, i do not mean to offend anyone. i was bridge in tunnel and spent a fair amount of effort hiding that. i could also show up as a survivor or a relic. i am also, it is not no big secret, i am a person with aids, queer man, and living with aids for over 20 years. and so i am often asked to show up and talk about aids and the significance of the epidemic, both within the united states and as an international crisis. most, if not all of my work actually is about aids, or has been for well over 20 years. and that carries with it a particular set of burdens. that means that i have to perform and do not take that word in its negative connotations, but this is a performance in a way. it means that i have to, in some ways, carry the burden of performing the notion of their survivor who carries history and bears witness as an ethical responsibility, which is actually, in some ways, something that i take on and take very seriously. and we will talk about all of these things somehow or juggle them. so i do not know, i will leap it to you to, i will figure it out. actually, it is not, i do not want to burden you with that task, but i will figure out how i showed up by the end of this. or maybe not. it is already begun, by the way. the problem of identity actually is a good way in to talking about much of the work upstairs. this excellent show, which i am privileged to be able to speak about. the problem of identity and post-humanist concerns are at the center of much of the work that we are considering and discussing today and in the show. there were two forces, more, many more, but for the sake of brevity and our consideration today, let us consider that there were two things going on in the late 70s and early 80s that i experienced in my own life. on the one hand, there was the necessity of enfranchisement coming out, adopting an identity as a game and being part of a community, which is what that meant to me. though my life and sexuality is much more complex than can be described in that particular term. and at the same time, there was the desire to have no identity. in fact, in the early 80s, before i became an aids activist and joined a movement, became a member of act up in the later 80s, i was committed to having no identity. i was on a punk, which i guess was an identity. you cannot escape it. in the east village, doing drugs, having sex, and having fun with my friends, and thinking about what it meant to be an artist in the early 80s. and it actually came from a very formalist approach. i was an abstract painter. that is how i started out being an artist. and i am going to talk about that a bit. but there was also this undercurrent of refusing. so there were two things i wanted to actually also put into motion. i am just going to, it is like spinning plates is what i am doing. i am just setting a lot of different things into motion. and one of them is this conundrum about the burden of having an identity and the necessity of having an identity for the purposes of enfranchisements, which you experienced if you were gay or a woman or a person of color or subaltern in some way or subjugated in some way. that side of or on the margins of what was represented as the norm. and at the same time, there was this feeling that we are not really essentially these things. we knew we had passed through, now i am going to laugh since we was talking about we. and i should actually say who is we. and i am just referring to the people who were immediately around me at that time. we were aware both at the level of theory and also the level of lived practice that we were constructing ourselves. i embraced this notion of the dandy, which is a time-honored modernist, or actually is a modern rather notion of self-construction. and a lot of the work upstairs rides this tension between forces that you could say are external to the body or social or historically determining. and also currents of thought which recognize the notions of some essential claims of who you are. we are no longer a valid or there was no guarantee that they actually existed beyond your own self-construction and social determination by how you were situated within society. and that in many ways explains my interest in materialist geography. actually, materialist geography, i should have been more truthful. i should have said a historical materialist geography. by that i mean marxist geography. my first published essay was about andrea frazier's performance as a docent, name-ging, castle-ton at the damage goods show, which was at the new museum and the new museum was on broadway. and both, andrea and i, let me start now and shift into a kind of personal anecdotal mode. there were two people who were central to my life when i was 22, 21, 22. it was andrea frazier and mark dianne. and we were constantly arguing about art. and there were a lot of other people around. but the three of us as well as tom burr and a few other people who were not necessarily in the show were in craig owens' art and ideas class at the school of visual arts. and that was an amazing experience because it was that moment for me and the two others that i just mentioned as well as quite a number of other people. then we first became acquainted with the notion of the critique of institutions and began to formulate notions of the institutional critique and our own ideas about how we were going to proceed with that. the necessity for it was driven by a feeling that the art world was completely consonant with the national politics of the government. ronald reagan was in office and many of you will remember how devastating that felt to many of us. some of you will not remember that. i know there is probably people in this audience who were born 15, 20 years later. that was for me and for many others, devastating news, not news, and a devastating event. because it really did mean the end of or felt like it meant the end of liberation movements and the rise of the more majority and the right wing in this country as well as amped up the fear of nuclear war which was huge and urgent concern. and actually still should be because the idea that a nuclear device will not explode in the next 10 years is actually highly unrealistic or rather there is a strong probability that it will. but there was the cold war and ronald reagan represented the cold war. and so there was this fear of real fear of nuclear war that was structuring our relationship to art. and we saw the art world and neo-expressionism as the return to the masculine painterly gesture within the art world as consistent with the macho straight politics of the reagan administration and the threats that that administration posed to the gains of feminism and lesbian and gay liberation and civil rights. and we passionately wanted to be artists. we still believed in art. and so it became necessary to figure out a way based on previous models. like i said, we were not operating in a vacuum. we had people who were around in new york artists who we admire tremendously and there were artists within the immediate history of the past 20 years previous to 1982 who were usually influential. and daniel beran was particularly influential on my thinking when i was thinking about mapping how to map the gallery. and the problem of mapping the gallery entailed the problem of marxist geography. and that was something i shared with andrea frazier as a concern and was something i put into an essay that i wrote called geography notes, which was published in a magazine called real life in 1986 actually. but it was based on a few years of thinking through these problems, going through art school and abandoning painting for video which i will talk about. but in geography notes, the chief preoccupation that andrea frazier and i shared at the time concerned the notion of materialist geography. we thought that relations among people and things were spatial and that space itself was a capitalist product. blending marxism with psychoanalytic theory, the psychoanalytic theory of jacques lacan, frazier's practice charted the course of the body's movement through the museum's space. a minefield of associations not necessarily tied to the reference or objects in the exhibition. i am actually reading from the note i attached to this essay and it is publication of my collected essays in which i also thank marc dillon who was also central to my thinking. marc and i used to just go to galleries. we met actually in galleries. we saw each other in galleries and finally we decided we would introduce ourselves to each other and share it a great passion for ideas and art and debates around documents and documentary. but the notion of space had changed. i had not yet encountered, i do not know when it came out of fred jameson's notion of cognitive mapping. i picked up a book called marxist geography at random at st. mark's books by massimo coenny, a person, a theorist i have not followed up on. i was interested in the topic of marxist geography. that was the beginning of my thinking and discussion with mike here is about what was the spatial coordinates of the gallery itself and how could we think beyond the gallery or rather tie our work in galleries to larger social formations and struggles that seem to be erased by and or actively fought against within the larger apparatus of the museum structure or what we would call the culture industry at that time. which we understood in frankfurt terms as being one conglomerate of including hollywood and television and museums as a complex of in which culture had been elevated to a determining feature of the production of capital. which is one of the definitions of postmodernism that we accepted. times were different and they were postmodern because culture was no longer as it is in classical marxism just the icing on the cake that has very little relevance to the production of the modes of production in the classical marxist diagram. we understood what we were thinking about and we were reading theorists who taught us that actually culture had become a central form of manufacture and production necessary to the economy of the united states and part of its definition as quote unquote big sad ironic emoticon leader of the free world. what i mean is i do not mean that we were the leaders of the free world. the world had much to fear from the united states. we saw that our job as artists was intimately bound up with even though perhaps was not as much heavily capitalized but still intimately bound up with and connected to high and low culture and connected to television as much as it was connected to art and galleries. it is really interesting to look back at this essay you following me so far? the article works through the shows of three artists who were very important to me and were kind of people i was looking to understand how to make my own moves in the art world. the essay is primarily devoted to appreciating and trying to understand the complexity of andrea frazier's first dozen lectures in which andrea specializes the museum and understands or i argue she understands that psychological associations are also themselves objects which then are produced and somehow commodified within the space of the gallery and so part of the expansion of the limits of the gallery beyond the gallery walls was this understanding which we drew from psychoanalysis that our various associations and fantasies were bound up with the intricate modes of production of culture. intrically bound up modes of production of culture. i walk through in writing i walk through joseph cassute's installation at the castelli gallery zero and not and talk about my admiration for that work but my break with conceptual art over its topology, the issue of topology i rejected that i could be conceptual artists or i could proceed as a conceptual artist because i did not like the way the conceptual art answered its own questions for the viewer and was still committed to an autonomous notion of art and art that was autonomous from culture. that may have bearing on culture certainly but is not directly tied to culture i could not at that time believe that principal any longer which is largely drawn from as many of you know theodore adorno and the frankfurt school i could no longer accept that and i think my peers were with me on that i am sure they were. strangely enough i worked through and write about martha rossler's global taste which is in the show which was surprising to see and a delight to see because that piece was so important to me when i saw it as a young person. i am just going to read a little bit about what i wrote about that piece when i was 22. martha rossler's project stems from similar theoretical conditions that shape conceptual art. however implicit in her work is a critique of the formal underpinnings that entrapped conceptual art in academia. the installation global taste of meal and three courses has colonization as its theme colonization of the self and of other countries by media and advertising. the central interlocking motifs in its three video tapes are children food commercials and learning. by the three video monitors but the three video monitors are contained within a structure that makes it impossible to get a view of all at one time. a fragmented collage of material global taste pictures the geopolitical relations that form the organizing principles of cultural production. understanding the art world as a subsidiary of a much larger culture industry the installation cuts across a measma of cultural artifacts to make connections between the place of viewing and of you of the world. the work addresses the increasing homogenization of culture that results from the efforts of the multinational corporations which govern its manufacture. the installation is an attempt to breach the confines of the viewing condition by way of reference to the disparate forces that compose a world picture. global taste actually really gave you know helped me to theorize this idea of the manifold many cited objects that could not be comprehended from one single perspective or point of view because the scale of what we needed to comprehend in order to produce a picture was far larger than could be comprehended from any single point of view. and that we were operating at a far larger or different scale than a previous art had been presupposing in its construction. and the essay then goes on to talk about a von rainer's film the man who invite women in which the main character is trying to produce a collage on his wall to understand the predicament he is in the world predicament he is in and is constantly moving things around on the wall that include newspaper articles and pictures and posters from the world. and the posters for the artist call against the us intervention in central america. and i very much identified with that subject and was interested in the notion of the viewer being viewed because of on rainer in that film and the number of other films. and the theme of what it meant to be viewing and pictured the viewer in the act of viewing and so held open to us the possibility of contemplating what it means to be a viewer at that historical moment because she did it with such historical specificity not only at the level of what you see within the picture but also the very construction of the films themselves if you see journeys from berlin or any of the films after that. i am going to read the last paragraph of this essay because it has bearing on my further thoughts about materialist materialist geography in the nights move. i am describing a phrase i have moved on and actually i am describing a much more making much more generalized set of claims on the basis of andre frazier's work which has been enormously influential and on my thinking for ever since i met andre. that is never stopped. i have always admired andre's work tremendously and have learned a great deal from it. a pictorial activity informed by a materialist geography furthers the development of political reflection upon space and it reveals the spatial strategies of power. these strategies are analyzed in terms of how they form subjectivity or rather how they coincide with the numerous positions we occupy as social beings. regarding signifying practices this requires an understanding of the spatial configurations of the exhibition space itself mapping the geography of this situation necessitates three terms that an anterior space be noted and drawn that means the space that precedes the entrance. that a place as defined by the limits of its area can be viewed as separate from the location it is assigned to discourse so the here and now of the work of art is no longer tied to the physical space in which it appears but rather appearance as a tie to language discourse and fantasy which far exceeds the boundaries of the gallery but the boundaries of the gallery but is no less historically determined than the very work of art you are viewing. and third that the physical boundaries of a space are not limited to perimeter of a location. i just explained that. the proposition of this article is this once the space of exhibition can be pictured in geographic terms that is in terms of geopolitical and spatial relations one can articulate the ways knowledge shapes of view of the world according to the dictates of power. this proposition was actually further confirmed for me only within the last five to seven years when i started reading the psychoanalytic theorist andre green who is a french psychoanalytic theorist and green added his contribution one of his many contributions to psychoanalytic theory is a historical perspective on the situation of analysis between analysts and analysts and and green says that the analysis has to include what has happened what has not happened what could have happened what has happened to someone else but not me what could not have happened and finally to summarize all these alternatives about what has happened a statement that one would not have even dreamed of as a representation of what really happened. so this constellation this of a kind of timelessness a suspension of time the recognition that the unconscious does not recognize clock time is a formidable and necessary proposition to going forward with the problem of making art then and now i would argue. i will backtrack and maybe repeat some things i said but i will going to maybe concretize them i am going to give a short narrative of how i ended up doing what i did which was eventually giving myself entirely over to aids activism and its representations via collective video making. somewhere along the way my values changed i once held a romantic devout belief in beauty i was a painter when i moved to manhattan i have always wanted to be an artist all my life my paintings were often shown in the cafeteria of ps1 186 later in high school i spent most of my time in the art rooms making abstract expressionist paintings i wanted to be jackson pollock when i attended art school i started making monochromatic paintings add rhyne hart all black painting became a task. i realized that i did not enjoy the act of painting i loved the act of making meaning i started painting myself out of my pictures applying the paint on the canvas with a roller executing the task as fast as i could. i became more interested in how the object hung on the walls and i became fascinated with the walls first as surface later as architecture i went from viewing the gallery as a structure to questioning it as an institution who determined what hung on the walls and why who attended galleries and the wall. i began making videos because i needed to work at a time based medium to answer all these questions the first work was about my sexuality in the context of aids i became interested in aids as a political crisis process groups were forming video making it became a means of documenting the emerging movement. i started working collectively to make documentaries began writing and publishing critical essays and analyses of my own work. i adopted a set of aesthetic principles principles to which i was until recently committed reduce the category of beauty to efficacy the category of form to function the category of audience to community. today i am sitting here writing myself out of the categories i reduced myself to. that is from a piece titled dance moments which i wrote actually in the exact date it was around 1994 dance moments was published. so in the mid 90s by the mid 90s i was reviewing and thinking about how political pressures had led me to seriously consider exigencies that were directly affecting the lives of myself and many others i tested for positive rates of being 1988 i presume i was infected much earlier but in the mid 80s we were advising people as activists not to get tested. so we did until we won anonymity protection and laws then we were advocating for people to get tested it did not matter if you got tested anyway because at that time there was nothing you could do. so we basically advocated that you should just have safe sex protect yourself first each one teach one and all the lessons of harm reduction that have not been carried forward. but i am not going to talk about that or i will if you want to engage in the conversation about that. so i think i have done enough work establishing how i think you can ask me during the question period but i think that i have done enough work establishing how a materialist geography arose for me and some of my peers understanding that the work of arts is not a good thing. i could not fulfill its promise of being autonomous necessarily and was tied to much larger forces than were previously imagined in ways or modes of operation that were new because of technological changes pre-internet but still the rising of mass video. so i think i am asking consumer video production equipment and the ways in which that enabled us to produce fast videos to document a demonstration during the day and actually show members of act up footage of the demonstration at night and review the successor failure of our tactics. so i think that the feedback loop had existed previously. you know you can get it from the soviets mid-ved candidate to give air to have did it. that was our model. gene karlin-musto my collaborator for six years of the game in the health crisis where i produced all of the aids educational audio visual work with jean together. we had a picture of dig a very tough in our editing room. we drew a lot on the soviets and that is where sklovsky comes up. but sklovsky comes up in a very strange way as johanna said when she introduced me. i am borrowing the notion of the night's move from victor sklovsky who was an early 20th century russian writer. i do not know very much about and i am now learning about the night's move meaning knight is a chess metaphor. many of you probably know or play chess but if you do not on the chess board the night is a piece that has a very prescribed and circumscribed kind of movement. it can move forward and back but it always has to go left or right. it cannot land in a linear way so it goes to moves and then it goes right or left and it can do that back or forward. and for sklovsky the night's move is a way of understanding art. he says in the first essay of the book the night's move which was a collection of essays that he wrote. in the early part of the 20th century that the night's move is a first and foremost a way to explain what art is. it is a moving forward in a way that appears to be linear toward an object but a veering away from that linear objective. he understands this to be constitutional and historically determining why does the night move the way the night does because it is actually what the night does and it is part of the structure and rules of the game. and within the structure and rules of the game this is the way in which this figure is permitted and this is the figure of the artist. that is one aspect. the other is that one adopts the night's move or identifies with the night as an artist if it is impossible to see your way forward. straight ahead. and so it is interesting for me to think about this adoption of a materialist geography and the notion of the night's move which i have always used. in my own thinking about how it is i go about anything including this lecture. that l-shaped movement of going toward an objective but actually veering in a completely different direction. and i understood it in that limited way for a long time but actually for this lecture i decided that i would actually read schlowski more closely. and i began to think about how schlowski thought that art was apart from life in fact. schlowski was not a modernist thinker or an avant-garde thinker. he was an avant-garde thinker. he was a futurist but he was not to not operate under the mandate as defines for us in the early 80s by scholars like benjamin buchlo. he did not identify with the demand to merge art with life as part of a determining defining feature of the avant-garde. he felt that art was very much separate from life. and so the night's move, frischklofsky is not emerging with art in life. although i often just in some kind of superficial way understood this idea of the night's move and there are far larger or far more associations that come to mind, do shops abandon mint of art for chess and the chess game itself as a figure. for john cage and for many many other artists there are many precedents. align in the wall text upstairs caught my eye and it is in the politics section i believe and in which the wall text explains the impulse to tie the concerns of art to those of society. and then let me think about the night's move in a very different way for which i am grateful. i think take it or leave it is a formalist exhibition of formalist proposition. and i do not in any way mean to use that term in any negative sense. i am actually grateful for the opportunities that the exhibition provides for me to think through and rethink a set of problems that i have been twirling around in my head for now 25 years or so. by formalist exhibition or proposition i mean that most of the works of art in the exhibition and i was not really thinking so much about the presentation or my presentation or the other exhibition programs that are tied to this. but i was thinking specifically about the presentation of the works and the choices of who is and who is not in the show because the show could go in so many different directions if you talk about appropriation and institutional critique. i was thinking that this show is differentiated itself from a lot of the other 80s shows because it is so formalist in its approach in that the works are allowed to speak for themselves and many of the works do demonstrate political ties to social movements. i mean adrian piper's piece, this is not a documentation of a performance which is a picture of housing struggle or september 12th the drawings on the newspapers, martha rossler's global taste, glenn lygon's condition report, rick ritt the taravan, niege's entitled 2014, up against the wall motherfucker, jenny holzer, memorandum for condoleezer rice, green, mark dions, killers kills, mary kelly's, mimos or mimos, nail and blake's, gun manifesto. i was just walking around, there might be others that i left out but i was thinking that these works are validly political in that their manifest content that they present are direct representations of political struggles and or the language of political struggle or somehow tied to other movements. mark dions' work for me is always tied to in my mind to the ecological movements and earth first and environmental concerns. and so in that way many of the works have are tied to social conditions but what is missing and there is not a structuring antinomy and it is interesting to note that there is a structuring antinomy that is still haunting us between what we call formalist which is what schlosski meant by the night's move, which avoids propaganda, which avoids merging with life, which represents itself as itself as a radical alternative. so i did a structuring, which is actually what i subverged myself into. i completely gave over my practice to a direct engagement with a social movement that was organized around a militant protest, went to jail, and it gave myself over to the service of the movement. i was sitting in kreg owens class and i am not saying that was better or worse because i am still a tremendous amire of, say, andreas' work or mark's work and learn a great deal from that. but we went in three different directions. so we are sitting in kreg owens class and first of all you have to understand, sitting with kreg owens was phenomenal. kreg owens was just luminous, right? he was tall and lanky and he smoked cigarettes, blue done hills elegantly and wore beautiful suits and was always too tall for the small school chairs at the school of visual arts. we were just in rapture and kreg was doing tremendously important work translating the first translations of derrida, of the paragon. recently turned on to marxism, he would gone to some conference with martha rossler on contemporary marxisms, they eventually made a book out of it where fred james is presented, and marxism was new to him. he was also wrestling with how feminism was tied to his identity as a gay man, which eventually wrote about and an essay called outlaws. and all of these things were being juggled marvelously, extemporaneously, hilariously in frightening ways before all of us. and we owe a tremendous debt to kreg owens. and if you have not read his work or you are not aware of his work, then i think she would go out immediately and find a copy of his collected writings and read things like the allegorical figure one and two and earth words and so many essays that were so central to my thinking and the thinking of the group of people that i am talking about. as many of you know, kreg owens died of aids in the early 90s, i believe. and there are representations of the aids in the show that are very, very moving but are not directly tied to the social movements or direct actions that happened previously or are continuing to happen around the world, around aids as a continuing global crisis. stephen freen is wonderful. the second sentence of everything i read is you mourning sex. this new piece, a relatively new piece, recent piece is an amazing work and very moving. and as is to see david wanerobich's work and felix's work, felix gunsala's taurus. those artists are fantastic artists, and they are making the nights move. and they are doing all the performing, all of the three propositions that i introduced arrived at for myself when i was 22 but are doing it in a way that is not necessarily linked to or directly engaged at a productivist level, which meant that the funding had to directly come from, that was one of the terms that i established for my productivism. i left the art world, i thought i was leaving the art world in the late 80s and would only accept money from the game and health crisis or directly from act up to produce work and the work was never sold for profit but all the money that was made by the work went directly back into those groups. and that was my position for six to eight years. it is not my position now, but it was then. so if you just take this, let us just say andrea, mark and me sitting in craig owens' room, a class room and thinking about what to do with the institutional critique. we each adopted a materialist geography to our work and internalized it as a structuring feature. and we accepted the notion of a night's move that the work could not be directly propagandistic but somehow still had to tie itself to what was going on in the social world and urgent social concerns. but the three directions are, i have always wanted to write about this profoundly different. andrea maintained and arguably with good reason and it is one of the great levers in her work that the work of art or the autonomous work of art is something worth fighting for, which i come to find out also believe in some contradictory way. one self of me believes that, at least one self of me believes that urgently, that the autonomous work of art is something to believe in and something to say. and some other self of me thinks that art should be on the street and getting arrested, which is what i did. and then mark did the most amazing thing. mark took on this notion of allegory and used the form, stole the form of the natural history museum to stage meditations on taxonomy and organization within the fine art space. and by doing so did tie himself by association to larger issues of the environment and the world. so i have often thought about the way that the direction that we went and how we started from what from what seemed to be a single set of propositions, but arrived at practices that are actually very, very different from each other. i just want to end, i think, because i am nearing the end of my time with talking about appropriation. one of the other things about shklovsky's notion of the night's move is that since shklovsky was a russian formalist critic, he thought that all works of art were processions of procedures. and devices. and actually appropriation then could be understood in one of those procedures or devices that walks forward in this procession in the construction of the work itself. and it is interesting to me how appropriation became such a charged term for us in the 80s, if you think back to what i was talking about earlier, i think appropriation was an urgent term because of the tensions between identity politics and a post-humanist understanding of there is no there or there to identity. and we ran with the ball of appropriation because we felt that the eye is a place in a sentence and not the person speaking it. and we understood that we were constructed individuals both historically determined by forces beyond our control and through whatever little volition we could muster ourselves to defend ourselves. and or and franchise ourselves as outsiders. so appropriation was a way of stealing. we thought of it as theft. i do not know if dare burn the homeless here but i always wanted to ask her. it is apocryphal to me but i have always understood that when she made wonder woman that she actually had to steal the video or somehow get access to the video from the network because the warrant vcr is then. so and i have always thought of appropriation as theft. and the many the many debates around appropriation in the 80s and onward had to do with the notion of property as theft. and our legitimate claim to the culture that streamed into our houses and into our ears and was provided to us as products products that we both were discussed by but also loved like pop music for example. i mean pop music is this fantastic commercial object that a door no hated but we loved and and yet it was also something that was purchased and produced and engaged in the production of ethics which i also see as commodities emotions are commodities to we sell emotions or we buy emotions every time we download that itunes hit at three in the morning or not even an itunes hit but that song or just you know construct our spotify. account to play only those things that will produce the right effect for me it is rock music i am just stuck in 1975 and and brian ferry and you can just produce a world like that actually do not have to listen to anything. but we know that appropriation actually you know did not originate in the 80s and in fact appropriation is as i inferred before is a constitutional device of language one you know eyes the perfect example that we get from roland barth right we all use the the first person singular plural pronoun to refer to ourselves and when i say i you know you i am referring to me but when johannes as i you know she is referring to herself and so in fact. so in fact this singular pronoun first person singular pronoun is something we appropriate and the names that are given to us by our parents proceed us usually in western culture and so we are a place made for us in language these are the things that were drawn from structural linguistics and semiotics that justified our notions of appropriation and our procedures of appropriation so actually has a much larger history and in fact appropriation was also a form of theft as defense because we felt that our culture was being stolen from us in fact cultural theft is the constitution of american culture white people still rock and roll from black musicians and all kind you know there was a huge land appropriations through conquest of new york. and that is a very significant difference that is the very foundation of this country and appropriation is in fact a much larger concern than simply you know quoting or borrowing an image from the dominant media it is the way in which it is the why it is a why nietzsche hated metaphor actually nietzsche hated metaphor because it was conquest or it is why susan santag hated metaphor because it was a very important thing for us. or it is why susan santag hated metaphor because she felt that it was improper and mobilized all sorts of ideas about illness that were hurtful to the people who were ill. i am not necessarily agree with these are not in fact my own position is that you just cannot do away with metaphor i still accept that there are two axes of language metaphor and autonomy and you cannot but help speak in metaphor and it is adjacent concept allegory would that you could but you cannot. so but we discussed appropriation intensely and we are very much interested and of course there were all kinds of debates around patent regimes and things like this and and the whole notion of patent history is only being a century old and that folk music is the ideal model of a appropriation culture because it has no there is no author and folk music can just be adopted in song and and we tooled for any purpose that is what how we were meant to do. so i am not going to emphasize that anyway if you see inside lu and davis that romanticism is kind of destroyed in a good way. and we discussed appropriation in terms of three categories which were the three categories of postmodernism postmodernism meant a lot of different things there were there were postmodernisms and i am actually it bothers me it irks me i do not know if it is just because i am turning 50 this year or because i was heavily invested in the past. i was heavily invested in the discourse or whatever but i the wholesale. disputation or dismissal of postmodernism gets to me because frankly postmodernism was the banner as is testified to by the show upstairs postmodernism was the banner under which women people of color and queer people were represented at far larger numbers than previously in my experience in the art world. so regardless of what you think about postmodernism and its legitimacy as either a social condition or an economic world economic condition the movement itself was more than can be summed up here but the terms around which the postmodernism was discussed was a kind of internationalism people were giddy about postmodernism because it meant internationalism was a kind of internationalism. there was a kilebignito oliva and other critics who championed that simply alone our response was an early response to this internationalism as a form of network society globalization that was fully instrumentalized by the super national interests of capital that would be the marxist take on internationalism of postmodernism. when it was a postmodernism it was the phil johnson at&t building it was the ability to mix and match and you saw it in julian schnabel's work as much as you did in any number of other people's work that could be mentioned and appropriation also meant interventionist like i said it was property as theft and we were stealing back our culture or not. it is much more complicated than that and actually appropriation is neither good nor bad. appropriation just is now and when we look at it. there was another example i just want to throw in there i am sorry but it is a small footnote just to think about appropriation in a different way there was a book that was very important to me written by dennis altman in the 70s called the homosexualization of america and the americanization of the homosexual. anyone read that book? it was a great book. i do not know if it was a bestseller but a lot of my friends had it and the book was basically about how madison avenue had stolen all of its codes of conventions from gay culture like the marbrow man and then that those codes of conventions which had stole for the hypnisfactor from gay culture then turned into a kind of form of domination. whereby being homosexual men styling yourself as america whether you were in australia or in paris it was a resulted in a kind of a modernization which many of us later experienced is the chelsea focation of small neighborhoods in large capitals like the way the mara in paris turned into chelsea or the traveling rainbow rings that were seen everywhere all around the world good or bad we do not have to debate it. i just wanted to say that appropriation is neither good or bad and is just very much part of the ground of our significations. i have actually been speaking for less than an hour i was told i should speak for an hour. i have five minutes to go so i am a good boy. i can end here really because there is no resolution to the night's move. i think the show has been very challenging to me because it is and i am grateful for the opportunity to think about these things out loud. i hope that they were somehow coherently presented in ways that we can talk about them further. i find this proposition of a formalist exhibition to be most challenging and most appropriate to the moment. it is a very important and usually significant because it does give us a unique perspective on its topics that differentiate it from the other shows, a wave of shows that are either memorializing and or trying to understand the 80s. hi, thank you for speaking. i was wondering what the context was when you saw global taste for the first time because you spoke about it being one of your favorite pieces it seemed like and if it was different from the way it was presented in the show. it was pretty much like shock to see it was presented at the new museum adjacent to different pieces. i do not remember what show it was in the new museum. it was in the context of my weekly engagement with galleries like the mark andre and i and others used to go to seeing art all the time. i mean that is all we did was like we just ate, slept and argued art and cared very deeply about what was going on. so i cannot unless you have a more specific question, i cannot really describe the context more than that. i guess most specifically then, could you were you affected by the audio of the piece in some way? the thing that i carried away from the piece was it is the combination of lots of other artists have done this. judith barry does this marvelously with the recent more recent work that she presents in the show. you cannot comprehend it from a single perspective that there are a number of things going on at once that you are provoked and required as a viewer to actually construct the piece. for yourself either alone or with others as you engage the work. there were many pieces that did that, that was the one that did it for me. it is like falling in love. any number of people, then there is that first one. i think i have editions of you in my head. it is a roxy music song. i wonder if you could just talk a little bit more about the commodification of culture that you mentioned at the beginning of how the marxist terms have changed. it seems to me to be so intense at the moment and very confusing. i am sorry, i do not fully understand the question. what seems to be intense to you? the formal expressions or creative endeavors become commercialized so quickly and so part of the capitalist separatists. i think that is true, but i have talked about this with a number of friends about what does it mean to look at louise lawler now as opposed to when we first encountered it. i have always been for incorporation in a perverse way. i actually want, we wanted to be artists and part of being an artist is actually getting shown and having your work enter the apparatus. and andrea has argued this way more cogently than i have. andrea frazier has argued this way more cogently than i have. to be an effective critical artist one has to appear as an artist and make an appearance within the art world as an artist. i reject when i kind of fastened this missiles of work that was understood to be critical and even marxists and work that has now achieved the kind of success and has entered circulation in a different way. that is not interesting to me. what does it mean to be critical and now or how would a younger artists make use of marxism or can it be done are questions for me, frankly. in many ways, i will always be a socialist. the socialism is a tendency. it is not a strictly definable book of doctrine. i do not look to the frankfurt school. in fact, as an educator, i am very much interested in historically bounding the frankfurt school and presenting it as past as something that was urgently felt and thought by a group of people who passed through history at a particular moment in time. but frankly, the notion of the culture industry is like a huge conspiracy theory. i do not buy it anymore. the total administration of culture, the notion of the total administration of culture and the ultimate end game of everything being instrumentalized toward the end of the production of capital is just something i have never been able to work under. it explains my choices in theorists. i was gravitated to foucault. foucault was optimistic. i did not go toward end game theorists. i teach debore as a kind of beautiful autonomous work of arts. the sight of spectacle is this incredibly beautifully written, hermetically sealed, perfect package. but it does not, in any way, explain the way to go forward. in fact, it is an impasse. so i think it is very much important to an urgent upon educators. shout out to the educators. some purring is an educator now. i did not teach death of the authors, although it was written two years ago. and to not teach the frankfurt school as though it is entirely relevant without question in the present tense. signification in general, actually. my question is totally vague. it is just something i picked up from here. i would agree with you. if you were to suggest that signification is still historically determined and bound up with the structures of economy, i would agree with you. if you were saying that it is that and only that, a fatality within that, i would have to disagree because i believe that we have a narrow but nonetheless measure of volition that cannot be controlled. i have to believe that. i mean, i think that is why authoritarian societies do not survive. that is why i think there is liberation in the pop song. that is. that. it is very important to understand the economic circumstances. i still believe that. if you understand the geographic historical coordinates of the modes of production and comprehend what it means to post be post-fortist, then you have an important explanatory tool for talking about arts. i do not think art dies. nor do i think signification dies in the face of that. i think signification. i still believe in excess. this might be i am old or something or older. i still believe in excess and the excess is of signification and the uncontrollable aspects of signification that make the nights move so important, necessary and urgent. whether or not it is a validly linked to a social protest movement. what did you move? i guess maybe an la. i do not know if you are from la or not. bridgerton tunnel. downtown and new york downtown, people would testify to this for me because downtown, new york, you know, you have to come from downtown or appear to appear downtown, which meant that you were below 14th street and for me it was always in the east village. and if somehow you just arrived and appeared, you did not come from queens. in other words, you did not take a bridge or a tunnel to get there. which meant what did it mean? it meant you were working class. my grandmother lived in queens for 35 to 40 years. she went to manhattan twice. when i grew up, you dressed up to cut up manhattan. it was more expensive and it was far away and it was as far away as hollywood and glamorous. and that is why i could not work hard enough to get my ass off of long island and get to manhattan when i was 18. that is what it meant. on the topic, i guess i was just thinking about history and making history and versus reviewing history. walking around the show, i was kind of dumbfounded at how colorful and fun and really felt all of that work was really sensual. it is really sensual show. and i was kind of shocked. i mean, i am obsessed with this stuff and i think i got it wrong. i thought it was very sterile and sharp and very goal oriented and maybe more black and white, if not in intent than in form. i do not know. maybe i guess my question is, i thought the way that history happened was at first it is an emotional thing. it is brothers fighting. and then it becomes sterile. the civil war is on paper now. whereas this, it almost seems reverse. we cry now at minimalism. so that these histories, why do they, i mean, why do they look so fun? were they fun? were they that emotional and colorful? and these things were happening, i guess? that is an interesting question. and again, the many selves want to answer it in many different ways. the first self would say that actually we, there was a lot of fun. there was a lot of influence from punk culture. and hip hop and other forms that were very fun. mark don and i used to go to the roxy and see africa bumbata. and that was just as important or here africa bumbata. and that was just as important as going to the new museum on broadway. and so there was a lot of influence, a lot of fun. and i think there was a rejection of the sterility of conceptual art. i was not the only ones who kind of hijack appropriate or use the strategies or devices or in schlopsky terms, procession of operations from conceptual art. but to rest it away from the sterility, academic nature and total logical self-defeating form of conceptual art as i saw it at that time. and so, yeah, there was a form that what you are picking up on is an intensity. the exhaustion of the bureaucratic pose of science that conceptual art, much conceptual art, not all conceptual art. in fact, in la, it was a very different story. i am talking about new york conceptual art. i am talking about seth segalub's group. i am not talking about a lot of other artists and i am making huge reductions here. but actually, that is all i knew at the time. so i am speaking about my own ignorance. and so, to a lot of us, to me, certainly, the sterility of conceptual art, like katsuth's scientificism, was an urgent and important in favor of other forms. where humor could play a role. and where the stakes were high, where fun was, you know, you had to fight for your right to party. or you had to party for your right to fight. that was a big debate between the beastie boys and public enemy. and i also think that, you know, but your question also makes me think about aids. like the aids work was some of it was hilarious. i mean, humor was so absolutely necessary. and it was not just only aids because the feminism and civil rights still had those urgency as well. and humor and fun and beauty have had their roles to play in signification regarding all of those struggles. hi, greg. hi. who is that, kancy? it is andrea. hi, andrea. thank you so much. i do not really, and personally, but we will talk about that later. i wonder if you could talk a little bit more specifically about the encounter between the strategies and sort of theoretical frameworks of institutional critique and appropriation and aids activism. and also, in some ways, specifically, in this ties into, i think, some of your reflections on the exhibition is how the notion of politics that developed in the early 80s within the frameworks of appropriation and theorization of postmodernism and institutional critique, you know, which had a longer history but was being sort of formulated more explicitly. that those notions of politics in some ways were that the activism that emerged or re-emerged in the late 80s, and i say re-emerged because of the connection to feminist activism in the 1970s and also the black arts movement and, you know, other grassroots political movements in the 70s. so institutional critique and appropriation and postmodernism was a kind of redefinition of the more activist politics, right, or we could say an appropriation and perhaps a night's move displacement of the activists, politics of the 70s that then kind of reappeared in some ways in very different ways in the late 80s, where those politics were again redefined. and in some ways, i think, re-emerged as a critique of the formulations of politics of the early 80s. so that is a very specific question, which is not really a question. it is an observation, but i would very much like to hear your thoughts about that encounter. thank you. thanks. well, there are many selves, as you know, in there are many ways to get at that question because it is a many-sided question. i do not think everyone in act up, i know, for a fact that everyone in act up was not steeped in postmodernist theory, but there was a huge portion of us who were, douglas crimp, regularly attended meetings. my best friend, rain of auro and i, or at different junctures within the whitney museum study program, and read quite a lot of theory together. and there were people, there is an apocryphal story by leigh edelman about how every act up member carried the first volume of the history of sexuality in the back of pocket of their genes, which was not true, but almost true. so there was a large portion of us who was steeped in that theory and organized our practices according to that. and i was particularly interested in my own practice after thinking that i had given a part and then starting to show activist art in galleries. at a certain point i realized that why exclude gallery goers, they need to be educated as much about aids as people at community centers. so i stopped this thing with, i am not going to show in galleries, and so i just showed anywhere i had an opportunity to and would just, you know, show a validly or manifestly didactic work. and i actually thought that you could induce a charge, i thought about it in terms of induction, that you could induce a charge in the art world through creating this direct connection to a social change movement, and that they actually, it worked both ways, that the charge would also influence and electrify the activist movement on material terms, like act up was supported by. several large auctions by major artists that made tons of money for the group that, you know, got me at a jail, like 18 times with bail funds and things like that. but they, but there were also people who worked in madison avenue in act up. there was a friend of mine who, you know, was the assistant to david hartman for good morning america. actually, i actually came into act up, you know, very much under this way of d.d. halick and paper tiger television and do not watch tv, make tv, and would go to these media committee meetings. i was always in actions committee, that is where i lived in act up, and i actually was much more interested in designing how to take over the food and drug administration, which we did in 1988, or how to start needle exchange, which i was part of. those things. i was much more interested in the practical stuff in the end, but at first i tried to join the media committee because i thought that that is where i could serve as an artist. and the media committee was filled with people who worked in public relations and madison avenue, you know, guys who were afraid that they were sick or very lost their lovers or not only guys, women who worked for network television. and i would get into these arguments and then my friend david corkry pulled me over who worked for good morning america and he said, have not you read grampsy? this was at an act up meeting, he pulls me over to the side and he says, you read grampsy, right? so you know that the war of the councilor, hegemony, could be waged at the level of the popular. this is at an act up meeting. and so we were thinking very much about those concerns at a very high level, because it means it is a sign language, if you could mobilize theory jargon or not. we were thinking about those ideas, a lot of people were thinking about those ideas from a myriad of perspectives and some not having any connection to the art world. and yet the art world was so influential, every protest poster looked like a barbercougar artwork at that time. and there was a reason for that. i mean people were looking for models. and the nights move exemplified in barbercougar's work was a nights move that then was appropriated successfully as a mode of moving forward in terms of poster design. and then media design. if only to me, i do not know if we did not know each other well. so it was only to me. i have kind of like, i do not know what is to say, what is the metaphor to use it. i am representing myself through these layers of time. and as you know, and some other people in this room know, i was a much differently configured person and i had different ideas. i have not totally changed, but i was, i did think of my work at that time as directly critical of work that tied itself to the belief in the autonomous work of art. i did want to be a productivist. i did reject what i understood to be formalism, though i always never let go of my attachment to art and live in the art world and teach art and still make art. and that the answer to why that is personally is much more about psychology. and i think being an artist is something in the order of a sexual orientation. you know, choose it, it chooses you, i believe that. and it would be a great violence to my psychology to, and it was to, to, to declare myself not an artist. because i care too much about this stuff. but i did at that time in the late 80s and early 90s conceive of my nights move as a critique of the very formalism which i am celebrating now in this talk. because i no longer think that for myself that that productive is move is the next move. i mean, i have moved, and this is classic, maybe this is just classic and cliche, but i, you know, i write and publish poetry now and completely invested in debates between conceptualism and form, neoc conceptualism and formalism, not the none of which i have touched on today. i am not going to read you a poem today. but you know, that is, you know, after the barricades, a lot of people turn to poetry. but that is, you know, not necessarily something that i can elevate to the level of a universal claim or anything like that. i hope i answered your question. thank you, greg. so you are welcome. thank you. so nice to hear you speak always. i wonder if you could share with us a broader reflection on the less, perhaps the reasons for the internal processes that led you to be perhaps more embracing a formalism or the idea of art's autonomy. and perhaps the historical or the economic conditions that are with us today that have impacted that turn for you. i think it goes back to the question that was registered earlier. that is, the art world today is not the art world of your 22 year old self, right? and the way that you understand the circumstances of where culture is or where art is or where the artist can be today. this is maybe wolf fall or, you know, my desire to hear you speak in more embracing ways of art's autonomy. but perhaps you are recognizing a certain political dimension to that desire to protect that autonomy now that you did not when you were 22. so i am being rather convoluted. but if you could give us a sense of how you see the field within which that desire or that dimension of yourself is coming to the fore and you are willing to embrace now that you were not before. thank you for that question, which was preceded by some very kind comments. thank you again. i cannot answer the question in any kind of universalizing or globalizing way or attach a kind of a plural first person pronoun to it. i am very much thinking about the moves that i need to make. and at some point that shifted and i do not exactly know or i cannot chart it. actually, i do know quite a bit about it, but i am not going to fully detail it here. so i am trying to select in my head what seems salient to the conversation at hand. and i guess many of the things that i am thinking about now, which i have not reordered the things i am making now, are tied to the tail ends of arguments or the flip side of arguments that i am thinking about now. and i think that the flip side of arguments that were structuring in tenemies for me. so abandoning the autonomous nature of the work of art but never giving up on politics, even at my most agit prop phase, making works following, hoping, aspiring to be like martha russell or orvon raider. and i think it was really nice like a touchstone film, not like, oh, son of a... it was like, it was not like anything. it was a major event in my life watching that film. and so understanding that the avant-garde was historically tied to these concerns and that those were a contestation or a problematization rather than a fixed set of concepts like the defining proposition of the avant-garde is merging art with life that is only one facet or aspect of the avant-garde that i latched onto and that seemed resonated with me in some way. it still resonates with me but i am also very much interested in the operations of sets of procedures that are further explorations of subjectivity, the construction of subjectivity, my own subjectivity. some of it had to do with enjoyment, one of the reasons why i started writing every day about eight or nine years ago and continued to do so and started writing and publishing poetry had to do with enjoyment. you know, it does not matter to me if you read the telephone book or you construct your own list of names. i am only interested in the effects the words have bouncing off of me when i receive them. and the judgments and incorporation of judgments in viewing or receiving works of art is not an urgent concern for me anymore. i am interested in an inventory of effects and how it resonates and the various registers upon which the work plays and how those are social registers and also bodily or embodied registers on the body, a complete rethinking of identity politics most recently via transgender theory, which completely overturned and rewrote. my understanding of identity politics or the working operation, operative assumptions of identity politics prior to it. so, in a biding interesting poetic, if you look at my work, my history is really parapetetic and the films that i make, i made a maya komsky film in the mid 90s. i was exosited by 1995, i was exosited by its politics, most of my friends were, we went through a period of disillusionment, our friends died, we were exosited. and then, without, completely, without expecting it, this class of drugs was invented that is now keeping me and most of my friends alive. i became reinvigorated and reinterested and ate as active as politics and made a film about distribution of generic drugs in 2001, but did so in a way that was a little bit too poetic and pissed off a lot of people in the movement. and i have been interested in writing those edges and making political films that are challenging to people who have very specific expectations of documentaries, but also can somehow be smuggled into an art world context and still be considered and valued as art, even without being gallery representation. i do not know, i cashed in my capital and the art world as an educator. i got tenure. so i understand the movements and flows of capital in the various ways that they work and those that had direct bearing on my life as well. and fundamentally, and i think you know this is, i believe that art can change the world, i still believe that. but i have done a great deal of thinking about the structure and nature of belief in the past decade. and understands that belief is a sensation that gets elevated to the status of truth through passion, not because of its guarantee in the lived world. or any external guarantee beyond your own experience of it. and so along with many side itself beliefs come and go, you do not have a volition over that. there is some things you believe and you just cannot let go of them even though they have been disproven. there are some things you used to believe and you forgot to use to believe them and someone reminds you that you did. somehow, sometime you are confronted with a problem and all of a sudden the belief arises and you did not even know you held it. so i am very interested in what allows me to proceed is the understanding which you can get from the enlightenment if you read hume instead of kant. that belief is a probability and never necessity and never guaranteed. did that answer your question? that was a nice move. i cannot explain why i still cannot explain. i will say one more thing and then we can just go. i was this burrow kid and every year they took us to the museums from queens. they put us on buses and we carried brown paper, satel bags with tuna fish sandwiches to the museum of modern art, to the metropolitan museum of art, to the museum of modern art, and i was the queer kid who fell in love with this stuff. that is just never gone away. i am grateful to the new york city public schools who no longer have art programs. thank you very much. thank you.