hello and welcome again to this edition of florida internet and television's phi tv. i am your host brad swanson and we are coming to you from inside the florida capitol inside the senate office building. we are joined today by senator aaron bean from fernandina, florida. senator bean, welcome. brad, good morning. just good to see you, my friend. all right. so we are in the middle of session, but before we really kind of get into some issues and things like that, we really want to know how did you get into this process? we are in the house, you are in the senate, but what made you want to serve? you know, it started out. i served on the fernandina beach city council and then became mayor and then had a crazy idea of running for an open seat in the legislature. the big turn limit change of 92 to 2000. so i came in in the class of 2000 with marco rubio and jeff atwater, mike herodopolis, joe negron and just a star-studded class. and it is a very addictive public service. it is very addicted. right. so we have heard the story in your fights for small businesses. you had a small business. you have also worked in the healthcare space. tell us about what in that small business world really, you know, you focused on when you really got here. well, i am a banker by training and technically a salesman. i went to banking school and was president of a bank and ran nassau county, a couple banks in nassau county for a while. all small business. but yeah, but also, i mean, worked with small business on loans. that is how i fed my family. he was making loans to small business. and we have had a handful in our family for a long time. we ran a put-put franchise for some time. we still have an auction business that we do auctions. well, let us talk about that a little bit. so when you are selling your bills on the floor of the senate, are you using your auction voice? sometimes, always using my selling voice, though. and it is sometimes i get accused of being a little over-animated. what are you talking about? no one would know that about your brand. i love it. so let us talk about your work in both chambers. because you as one of the members of the heart and soul of both chambers, you have definitely focused on health care. and certainly, you get these legislators all involved in these weight loss contests. but it is also a broader passion of yours. tell us a little bit about that and then about your work in health care. well, it started in the house when then speaker bence came to me and said, you got a banker's background. please get spending under control in health care. and that is how we got involved that way. and it is just been a passion of mine. i do some part-time work for uf health jacksonville. i am a salesman for them and selling donors and selling hospital services as well. so it is a passion. we are working a bill we have worked for several years, telemedicine, which is using technology. we definitely want to talk to you about that. but tell us about that bill while we are on it. it is a telemedicine. it is huge. we innovate and we are spending a lot in our industry in that space. but what does your bill do in telemedicine? you know, it really just defines it in statues. we do not recognize telemedicine right now. so we want to put some basic standards and definitions in law to let everybody know. yes, see your doctor or health care provider. because what it says is if you are licensed to do whatever in the state of florida, your license to do it telemedically and your patient. floridians can expect the same standard of care if they see their doctor live or see them telemedically. right. so in our business, you know, everybody has a tv in their house. typically, they have some sort of hookup. so our technology is going to basically be the display platform for a lot of that. so thank you for your work in that space. we will continue to innovate. so let us move out of health care. what are your other top priorities this session? what else are you working on for your constituents? we have a variety of 26 bills that we are working right now. there is a bunch of them are in child welfare. i have three kids of my own and anything that we can do to get child welfare permanency is the key word. if we can get permanency, a kid with a family quicker, sooner they thrive. they do better. everybody does better when that happens. we have got three to help speed up that process this year. last year, we did what is called foster parading is a walk in the park bill where we gave everybody that is a foster care family in the state of florida free access to our state parks. oh, that is amazing. you know, and you think about that population of kids and making sure they are safe and secure. i mean, it is important to continue to push that policy. i imagine you are facing policy that has not quite caught up with the challenges of the day. so thank you for that. all right. so once you are, let me put it this way, when you are not fighting for the free world and you are not fighting for your constituents and or child welfare issues, the really important thing is is what do you do to take your mind off it? in our world, the question comes is what do you like to stream when you are trying to take your mind off of your daily work up here at the legislature? you know, that is a good question. i like a lot of mindless tv where i do not have to think and shows. i will even watch cartoons with my kids. me too. okay, do not tell anybody. let us keep that a secret between our cell. no one will find out. this is just on the internet and television. okay. good, good. i am a loved to watch cable tv newscast. and this is not what you want to hear, but i like to read. oh, no, we love reading. we love reading. old school reading. and with books or on a nook. our books, actual pages. we are happy to have our online connections deliver those books when you order them through amazon and other folks. so thank you for that. so for everybody. yeah. well, senator beane, thank you very much for all the work you are doing. not only in these ultra innovative spaces, but for florida's children. and we know you will continue to fight for small and large businesses across the state. so thanks for joining 5 tv. brad, thank you. all right. that is all the time we have for today's episode of 5 tv. make sure you hit us up at fl internet tv on our twitter and facebook feed. thanks for tuning in.