here it is. a very good afternoon patriots. it is great to be with you and thank you so much for allowing me to bring your state senator. it is a dream and honor to serve you. ladies and gentlemen, i can say, i would say welcome to the reagan west side barbecue. i can say welcome to the front lines of saving our country. i can say you are one and that is where we are right now, ladies and gentlemen. you are truly barricaded saying, be, what does eating barbecue have to do with saving the country? well, neil freeman will tell you he is right here on the second row. there are ten states. ten states that are going to decide who takes the reins of our country. there is no bigger prize than florida. let me tell you, florida is as purple as they come. south florida, i spend some time in south florida this week. it is a difference. it is a different, say no most in south florida. it is blue. and the only way we can combine is what we do in north florida. north east florida, particular. that is what i want george bush. i want other big races. that is what i want. governor scott was right here up in north east florida. and so that is why we are hearing barbecue. i look at my friend's share of life. i look at the chairman, scott wiley, other big drums and jacksonville that are here today to say, let us do it as a team. we know george florida works together as a team. the in no 95 million people are out of the workforce. thanks to our current leadership and the white house. do you know that one in five households, one in five households right now, is no longer seeking a paycheck from employment. those are both all time high records. and this week, a new job report came out and said, we created 38,000 new jobs. so let me ask you, national accounting, how so a bomb i care working for you now. it is a job killer. it is got to be our number one thing to reveal once we take back the white house. so we eat barbecue in national accounting as everything to do with literally saving our country. she is out there, you know who i am talking about. she is out there, ready to carry on the traditions of obama and all that he stands for. everything that is upside down in our country. so what is at stake is tremendous. you and your sphere of influence is going to be tremendous. you are saying, be not just one vote. your sphere of influence is tremendous. we as a team have to pick off all those people that say, and there is still some out there, never somebody. we know that they need to be on our team. and there is so many independence. but i will look at it and you will be amazed that next cocktail party, backyard barbecue, or whatever, your conversation to say once that state for our country. because the american experiment started over 225 years ago. and it is now in danger. it is now in danger. our borders and things that we think of that our government is going to do. it is no longer enforced at all. in fact, our government's economy is actually pushing across the federal lines. and this, i am not keeping you of all the things happening in our world right now. what is our federal government concerned with? i will kid you not. i am housing for illegal transgender aliens. i cannot you not. so much of this state ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we are here in barbecue. i want to give a shout out to all of our candidates. if you have not joined these local candidates, i have been one. i am one. it means so much for you to give them this support. they are on the road. they are not going to own doors. it am not a lot for you to have there. so with that, i also want to recognize he is going to be speaking in a few minutes. our lieutenant government, let us get them to the big rock of applause they have done. our lieutenant government, carlos, go pass them. everyone! tony speaking to the two nationalists, it is going to see you run around. how about that? he flew in just for this event. so ladies and gentlemen, enjoy your barbecue and get charged up. you are going to eat that energy as we together save our country. go out and have a great day to contribute to all of us.