so we heard some people inside, but the big news. there is some happy folks in there. i am so proud and so honored to announce that i will be the first mom representing colorado's third congressional district. there is so much in the united states congress that we need to tackle. and i am so eager to prove to all of my opponent's supporters and anyone who was against me how much that we are going to get done in these next two years. did you receive a phone call from diane mcewish? i have not. not yet. are you expecting that phone call tonight tomorrow? and he is... we will see. the campaigns have reached out. and so we will see. what is the message you have taken from this experience that you would like to share with others about the american? we the people stood up. we believed in something. we saw a need to be represented and to secure the greatest nation that this world has ever known. and we got together a small group of patriots got together and accomplished so much. i really believe that a way has been pioneered for average ordinary citizens to rise up and take a stand to serve their country. and that is exactly what i am doing. the united states congress, the house of representatives, was intended to be led by citizens. and i believe that more citizens are taking a stand now to serve their country to secure our freedoms. the midwest campaign reached out to you already. what did they have to say? they did not. they did not. what are the campaigns that reached out to the president? there is been... representative ken buck has reached out to me and chairman tom emmer from the nrcc. and then some other really great folks that i have met along the way all throughout the country who are running their own races and watching mine as well. there is going to be a tremendous freshman class and the united states house of representatives. and i am excited. tonight we are having a small celebration. but tomorrow it is time to roll my sleeves up and get to work. what is first for you as representing colorado third congressional? there is a lot that i want to take care of. as a mom, as a business owner, i want to be on the front lines of health care. i want health care to be affordable for all american citizens. i want, of course, our pre-existing conditions to be covered and taken care of. i want to be on the front lines of education and school choice. and right here in colorado third congressional district, we have more than 80% federal lands. and i want to continue america's energy independence and pursue energy dominance because nobody does it better than us. when you defeated scott tifted back in the primary, he told caridio, anchor, parkbed, soul, we expected this. when you first started running for this position, did you expect it to be where you are at today? i absolutely intended a victory, but what i did not expect was how much support, how many wonderful people that i would meet along the way, and who would come up and really just carry this vision with me and help me run with it. i did not expect that on such a grand level. i mean, look, this is a tremendous victory. this is a huge win. this is my first campaign. this is my first time running for office. and millions of dollars were spent against me, lying about me, and lying about my opponent. and i am excited for this win tonight. what is so good for you? what was the point where you said, ok, this is official? i am the official candidate. we were just doing some math, and we do not see that going any other way. and the colorado republican party called, and they are saying that i am the congresswoman for colorado's third congressional district. are you expecting a call from the president? i am always expecting a call from the president of the united states. ok, first, mom in history to represent this district, first woman in history, first a business woman, not a career politician in history, get the position, how does it feel to make history? this is incredible, and it is an honor. and i am really just even more honored and humbled to be able to serve the people in our district. and i hope that that spills over into the rest of our state and begins to influence the rest of colorado. and so we could get back to these conservative values, get back to upholding the constitution of the united states. i believe there are so many people who get frustrated with elected officials who swear to secure our rights. but then they go to dc. they go to denver. and they forget who they work for. they overregulate, overtax and overspend, and ultimately destroy everything that we are building here at home. so i am excited that average citizens are going to congress. thank you so much. thank you.