a very bizarre moment at a trump rally over the weekend where representative lauren bobert in one of the most cringe-worthy displays of fealty to donald trump revealed something really weird about trump herself and her relationship with her child. let us take a listen. i want to tell you a story about his generosity, about how kind he is, about how welcoming he is. the things that these folks right here in the back never let anyone see. fake media is the virus. my family and i were with president trump and even not liking germs, president trump shared a bowl of popcorn with my 14-year-old son. now listen wyoming, i know where he is been, i do not share food with my son. but president trump welcomed him and engaged with him and showed him love and respect just like i have seen him do with hundreds and thousands of other people all throughout america because he is not a politician, he is a family man, he is a businessman and he loves you, he loves america and he will be back again. um, okay, so i have a lot of questions. number one, you do not share food with your son. number two, if it is true that your 14-year-old son is a grubby and filthy, that is actually an indictment of you as a mother. and two, why would you let him then share popcorn with the, let us just say unhealthy ob-summon president of the united states. so on all levels, this is a major indictment. and also just a cro- i do not know. my major question is, is this a real person or is this like a performance project? because i mean, even the whole thing to like those people in the back row will not tell you the truth about president trump sharing popcorn. i mean, it is just so... there is a lot going on. it is funny because, you know, the like, what did you say fake news is the virus? yeah, that was funny. oh my god. yeah. they just take these sort of hashtags and slogans from the past. i mean, this has been a long time now since 2016. it is just kind of like replaying, recycling the same hits from the early days. and it is got that vibe of like, you know, tried now the old faithful hits for the crowd. yeah, also your bar is super low. if this is what you consider to be like... that is all you got. the real tell of like a great... oh my god, you shared a bowl of popcorn. do not you have something about him in a veteran or something? you know, yeah, like... it reminded me of kaylee mcanany told this story about after she would had surgery and that he called her... oh, that is right. and this is like so incredibly moving to her that someone who she is supposedly close to, she spends like all her time with, bothered to call her. like, that is nice. that is a very low bar in terms of holding this up. this is the extraordinary character of this man that the fake news will not tell you about. it is all weird. it is also weird to just be like, you know, with any politician, the way that we treat these people like they are supposed to be our daddy figure or something is also very strange to me. i just completely agree. yeah, i just, i saw that. i, jen, i could not get over it. just in terms of what it says about her, what it says about him. it is like, that is all you got. the fact that the crowd loved it. there is just, i do not know, man, i just bear for this country sometimes. indeed. okay. i am more of you guys later. cable news is ripping us apart, dividing the country, making it impossible to function as a society, and making it impossible to know just what is true and what is false. but the good news is they are failing and they know it. that is why we are building something new, a new mainstream, a healthier one, something more trustworthy, something that we are going to need in one of the most pivotal times in american history. we are building up here for the midterms for the upcoming presidential election, but we need your help. so if you can help us out by becoming a premium member today at breakingpoint.com, we are trying to change america for the better and the entire world. so what are you waiting for, guys? go to breakingpoints.com and sign up and help us build a new mainstream.