thank you, martin. hey, triads! 2024 is when we take ronald back, it is when we take our nation back and we set a path on a new trajectory for conservative values, for christian morals. that we would be a righteous nation, recognized throughout the world once again, that we could stand up for our allies throughout the world because we take care of the homeland first. we secure our southern border. we ensure that our american citizens are living their very best life, that they are cross-pring, that their children are safe, that they are free from indostrination and critical race theory and conflict and the sector. america is not the place where we just someone buy their skin color or how they were born. this is not a nation where we create confusion in our youth from a very young age. we show them that they were created on purpose with a purpose for this time and they are exactly perfect and holy, made in the image and likeness of god and he did not make a mistake. we are here in windsor, in wonderful, well-county in colorado, in our fourth district. tonight is primary 9.7 of you all been trying to whisper things to me. so you all been trying to tell me what you are reading on your phones. i do not want to hear it. tonight we had a priority and that was to glorify and honor god, to praise the name of jesus, to invite the holy spirit to be present not only in this realm but in colorado's fourth district throughout colorado and throughout the united states of america. we had the very little of the intelligent abby, sing our nation's anthem and men and women all throughout this room stood in honor and awe of this flag. the men and women have fought for, have laid their lives down for and people all across the world know undoubtedly that this is the one true symbol of liberty and justice for all. before we get to final speeches later, i want to thank you. i want to thank each and every one of you and your neighbors and your friends, your family members. thank you for those tough conversations that you have had with people. thank you for educating yourself on this race and forming others about the other candidates who have thrown their name in the race because it matters. everything we do right now is so important and thank you for showing so much grace and humility and mercy and inviting me to your district. you know, i used to live in aurora, it is not in the district, but a rapper who a little bit is. i was a flatlander once, you know. i am back. but thank you. thank you for welcoming me, my children, my grandson. that is what we are fighting for. my children have the opportunity to go to an amazing charter school right here in windsor, colorado, that moms and dads fought for. and we are not going to lose sight of them because it is our moral obligation to give this everything that we have, to preserve freedom and liberty for them, to ensure the politicians who are godless and get into office, do not have enough power to say i am god and i can take your rights away because we know that our rights come from god, not corrupt politicians. you are right that you have been in doubt with are not the governments to legislate away, to reason away, to purchase away. and that is what i will always continue to fight for. we are going to have some fun tonight. we are going to gather. we are going to support this wonderful business here in windsor. and we are going to have a fantastic night of victory and it is not over. president trump needs us now more than ever to get him in the race, in the fight, in the white house. no member, fed. we have a lot of work to do. do not slow down. do not relent. god has no pleasure in those who draw back to why not let us press in and take this all the way home. god bless you all. i will talk to you again soon.