skip to content click here to sign up for senator cramer's weekly newsletter skip to content senator cramer facebook senator cramer twitter senator cramer youtube senator cramer instagram senator cramer mail news press senate passes cramer, klobuchar’s honoring our fallen heroes act october 09, 2025 senate passes cramer, klobuchar’s honoring our fallen heroes act ***click here to download audio.** washington, d.c. – the u.s. senate passed legislation introduced by u.s. senators kevin cramer (r-nd) and amy klobuchar (d-mn) to ensure all first responders who die or become disabled due to service-related cancers are covered under the u.s. department of justice’s public safety officers’ benefits (psob) program. while the program recognizes those who made the ultimate sacrifice due to 9/11-related cancers, it does not cover other first responders who lose their lives due to other service-related cancers. “our first responders epitomize courage and selfless sacrifice, confronting both the immediate perils of their duty – which are extreme – and the lingering health risks associated with their service,” said cramer. “ their exposure to dangerous carcinogens happens on our behalf. when these heroes make the ultimate sacrifice, their families should not have to bear these burdens alone. i’m grateful my senate colleagues passed this important legislation.” “our firefighters put their lives on the line every day to keep us safe, often exposing themselves to carcinogens that can have lethal long-term effects. it’s unacceptable that firefighters who succumb to cancer from work-related exposure or become permanently and totally disabled don’t receive the same treatment as others who die in the line of duty,” said klobuchar. “this bipartisan legislation will ensure that the public safety benefits program covers service-related cancers— honoring the commitment we make to our firefighters like captain paidar and other first responders who made the ultimate sacrifice. we must uphold our promise to care for their families.” the honoring our fallen heroes act was reported unanimously out of the senate judiciary committee on may 20. it has garnered the endorsement of leading public safety organizations, including the international association of fire fighters, the association of state criminal investigative agencies, congressional fire services institute, federal law enforcement officers association, fraternal order of police (fop); international association of fire chiefs, major county sheriffs of america, metropolitan fire chiefs association, national association of police organizations, national fallen firefighters foundation, national fire protection association, national narcotics officers’ associations’ coalition, national volunteer fire council, and sergeants benevolent association of the nypd. tags: defense & foreign policy previous article next article nav-mobile-modal search-mobile-modal