skip to content click here to sign up for senator cramer's weekly newsletter skip to content senator cramer facebook senator cramer twitter senator cramer youtube senator cramer instagram senator cramer mail news press amtrak completes over $30 million in upgrades at north dakota train stations october 17, 2025 amtrak completes over $30 million in upgrades at north dakota train stations bismarck, n.d. – amtrak announced it has spent over $30 million to complete work at five north dakota train stations for accessibility upgrades and improvements. these improvements bring the five stations into compliance with the americans with disabilities act . “the bipartisan infrastructure law is still delivering for north dakota,” said u.s. senator kevin cramer (r-nd), chairman of the senate environment and public works transportation and infrastructure subcommittee. “it’s great to see amtrak stations across the state receive some much-needed upgrades. these funds at the devils lake, fargo, rugby, stanley, and williston stations will go a long way increasing safety and accessibility for travelers.” $10.4 million to the rugby station for a 750-foot boarding platform equipped with a snowmelt system and accessible paths between the station and parking area. construction included sloped walkways and safety barriers, led light fixtures for full coverage lighting at the platform, detectable warning systems, new signage, and refreshed station interior. $10 million to the williston station for a 700-foot boarding platform equipped with a snowmelt system, new parking area, and accessible paths between the station and parking. construction will conclude next month with completion of sloped walkways, railings, egress, energy efficient led light fixtures, detectable warning systems, and signage. $4.5 million to the devils lake station for a new 300-foot boarding platform equipped with a snowmelt system, sloped walkways and safety barriers, and accessible paths to the station building. the platform has energy efficient led light fixtures that provide full coverage lighting at the platform, detectable warning systems, and new signage. $4.5 million to the fargo station for a 645-foot boarding platform with sloped walkways and accessible paths. platform construction included railings, egress gates, energy efficient led light fixtures, detectable warning systems, new signage, and a refreshed interior. $400,000 to the stanley station for an accessible path between the station building and parking area, repair and replacement of detectable warning systems on the platform, station signage, and a refreshed interior. previous article next article nav-mobile-modal search-mobile-modal