skip to content click here to sign up for senator cramer's weekly newsletter skip to content senator cramer facebook senator cramer twitter senator cramer youtube senator cramer instagram senator cramer mail news press fy26 ndaa includes cramer, klobuchar language, providing free credit monitoring for all service members october 14, 2025 fy26 ndaa includes cramer, klobuchar language, providing free credit monitoring for all service members washington, d.c. – the fiscal year (fy) 2026 national defense authorization act (ndaa) passed the u.s. senate by a vote of 77 to 20, including u.s. senators kevin cramer (r-nd) and amy klobuchar’s (d-mn) servicemembers’ credit monitoring enhancement act . the annual bill, which passed the house in september, will now be negotiated by the house and senate to reconcile differences. the provision requires the expansion of free credit monitoring for all service members and their families, including non-active-duty reservists and traditional national guard members. eligibility was previously limited to active-duty service members and full-time national guard members. “our service members put so much on the line and are frequently deployed or regularly moving, leaving them more vulnerable to financial fraud,” said cramer. “ the inclusion of the servicemembers’ credit monitoring enhancement act in this year’s ndaa is an important step to protecting their financial security.” “servicemembers are heroes who put their lives on the line for our nation and we must support them in every way we can,” said klobuchar. “by making free credit monitoring available for every single member of our armed forces, this bipartisan legislation will improve the financial security of military families and give them greater peace of mind.” the servicemembers’ credit monitoring enhancement act unanimously passed the full senate in november 2024. the legislation is endorsed by several organizations such as the military coalition and 24 of its servicemember organizations, as well as the credit reporting agencies transunion, equifax, and experian. tags: defense & foreign policy , veterans previous article next article nav-mobile-modal search-mobile-modal