skip to content click here to sign up for senator cramer's weekly newsletter skip to content senator cramer facebook senator cramer twitter senator cramer youtube senator cramer instagram senator cramer mail news press cramer, klobuchar pass resolution recognizing national adoption month and day november 21, 2025 cramer, klobuchar pass resolution recognizing national adoption month and day washington, d.c. – across the united states, more than 100,000 children in foster care are waiting to be adopted. for many, adoption provides children the stability of a permanent home and the opportunity they need to thrive. to encourage families throughout the nation to consider adoption, u.s. senators kevin cramer (r-nd) and amy klobuchar (d-mn), co-chairs of the senate congressional coalition on adoption (cca), passed a resolution designating nov. as national adoption month and nov. 22 as national adoption day. since the first national adoption day in 2000, more than 85,000 children have joined permanent families through celebrations happening across the country. in 2023 alone , 50,193 children were adopted from foster care. yet 36,411 children remained in foster care despite being legally free for adoption and having a primary permanency plan of adoption. the resolution celebrates children and families involved in adoption, as well as promotes national awareness of adoption and children awaiting families. it importantly encourages americans to prioritize the safety, permanency, and welfare of all children. “adoption is one of the greatest joys of my life and i am grateful for the role it played in growing my family,” said cramer. “it’s an honor to pass this resolution with senator klobuchar recognizing national adoption month and day. this is a great opportunity to promote adoption and the safety and stability of adoptive families.” “we’re grateful for the dedication and commitment of adoptive families who open their homes and hearts to children,” said klobuchar. “as co-chair of the congressional coalition on adoption, i will continue to work with senator cramer and colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure every child has a safe, loving, and permanent family.” cramer was selected by the national council for adoption as one of this year’s honorees for the friend of adoption award. the award recognizes significant contributions made to the field of adoption by an individual or organization. tags: life previous article next article nav-mobile-modal search-mobile-modal