skip to content click here to sign up for senator cramer's weekly newsletter skip to content senator cramer facebook senator cramer twitter senator cramer youtube senator cramer instagram senator cramer mail news press cramer questions defense nominees at senate armed services committee hearing november 06, 2025 cramer questions defense nominees at senate armed services committee hearing ***click here to download video. click here for audio.*** washington, d.c. – the senate armed services committee (sasc) held a hearing to consider the nominations of timothy d. dill to be assistant secretary of war for manpower and reserve affairs; dr. maurice l. todd to be assistant secretary of war for readiness; michael payne to be director of cost assessment and program evaluation (cape); and alexander j. velez-green to be deputy under secretary of war for policy. u.s. senator kevin cramer (r-nd), chair of the sasc airland subcommittee, questioned payne about independent assessments being diluted by program advocacy. he also asked velez-green about a reported “pause” in ukraine aid and claims made by under secretary of war for policy elbridge colby that the british royal navy should reduce its presence in the indo-pacific. if confirmed as the senior civilian official leading cape in the u.s. department of war (dow), payne would be responsible for independent analysis of force structure, program alternatives, cost-effectiveness of defense systems, and advising the secretary and deputy secretary of war. cramer expressed concern that too often, independent assessments get diluted by program advocacy and can be masked by cherry picking operational scenarios to match or disadvantage the platform being evaluated. cramer asked payne if this happens at cape, either inadvertently or through orders by leadership. “at times in the past, yes, i have seen cape take on an advocacy role that i think is inappropriate for an independent analytic organization,” responded payne. “if confirmed, you have my commitment that my priority would be focusing cape on its true mission, which is being an advisory, not a policy making or decision-making organization.” as deputy under secretary of war for policy in the dow, velez-green would support the civilian head on strategy, deterrence, alliance management, and doctrinal posture for the united states. over the summer, the british aircraft carrier hms prince of wales sailed in the pacific. under secretary of war for policy elbridge colby reportedly made a comment to the british along the lines of “is it too late to call it back? because we don’t want you there.” cramer asked velez-green if he had knowledge of the specific discussion. velez-green said it would be inappropriate to comment on private discussions between different governments given the setting, but secretary of war pete hegseth has publicly said “it is most important for our european allies to focus on their home theater as they work to build out their capacity.” “that is the guidance that the secretary has offered in a public setting, and my personal view is, i think that does make a lot of sense because we believe in a nato that is as strong as possible,” said velez-green. “that is a sincerely held view. my personal belief is we have an interest in nato being as strong as possible on an enduring basis, with the united states deeply engaged. but for that to happen, especially as we face the rise of china, our allies simply have to step up and focus those resources where they are needed most.” cramer asked if anyone coordinated the statement with allies or the u.s. department of state. “there are other agencies for whom international relationships are the higher party, not at least, which, of course, is the state department,” said cramer. “and so, i would be interested to know if this position was reconciled with the state department, or if this was just, again, a private conversation to your point, or for that matter, if other allies were consulted, allies that welcome the british having a ship in the pacific.” velez-green said the undersecretary has been “ruthless and specific” about ensuring the office of the under secretary of war for policy focuses on military matters, and in this case, thinking about the allocation of defense resources across theaters. he said they also interact with their interagency colleagues to ensure those cross-cutting interagency conversations continue. following up on a statement made earlier this week by austin dahmer, nominee for assistant secretary of war for strategy, plans and forces, regarding a pause in aid to ukraine, cramer asked velez-green to reconcile statements denying a pause with a dow publication which states, “some assistance provided to ukraine — as well as assistance to other nations — is on pause as the defense department reviews its own capabilities.” “i can say categorically, the policy leadership neither ordered nor even recommended a pause to any weapons shipments to ukraine as it was reported,” said velez-green . “full stop, no caveats. that reporting was completely inaccurate in substantial part because we do not have the authority to order any adjustment to weapons deliveries one way or the other. i am aware of brief disruptions to certain deliveries as a result of the capabilities review that mr. purnell referenced in the july 2 transcript that i believe was referenced on tuesday, but i am not aware of a pause ordered by the secretary to any of the weapons shipments at the time.” “well, we may have to dispute terms and titles, but it’s a dod news release,” said cramer. tags: defense & foreign policy previous article next article nav-mobile-modal search-mobile-modal