[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 20 (Monday, February 5, 2024)]
[House]
[Pages H396-H397]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO CANAL NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK COMMISSION EXTENSION
ACT
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1727) to amend the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Development Act
to extend the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park
Commission, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1727
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ``Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
National Historical Park Commission Extension Act''.
SEC. 2. CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO CANAL NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK
COMMISSION.
Section 6(g) of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Development
Act (16 U.S.C. 410y-4(g)) is amended by striking ``40'' and
all that follows through the period at the end and inserting
``on October 1, 2031.''.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. Westerman) and the gentlewoman from Michigan (Mrs.
Dingell) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Arkansas.
General Leave
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and
include extraneous material on H.R. 1727, the bill now under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentleman from Arkansas?
There was no objection.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I support the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National
Historical Park Commission Extension Act. This bill reauthorizes the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park Commission for 7
years beyond the Commission's current expiration date of September
2024.
The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park, or C&O Canal,
stretches over 184 miles from Georgetown in Washington, D.C., to
Cumberland, Maryland. For nearly a century, the national historical
park played a crucial role in the transportation of many agricultural
products along the Potomac River.
Today, the park offers numerous outdoor recreation opportunities
while continuing to serve as a source of economic growth through
tourism and employment opportunities. In 2021, the park attracted over
5 million visitors, supported 1,360 jobs, and generated $104 million in
economic output in local gateway communities surrounding the park.
[[Page H397]]
The park's commission is comprised of 19 members who serve on a
volunteer basis. By including the voices and unique perspective of
various local stakeholders, the commission provides a critical link
between the National Park Service and local communities with no cost to
the American taxpayer.
Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1727, the Chesapeake and Ohio
Canal National Historical Park Commission Extension Act, introduced by
my colleague from Maryland, Representative Trone.
Once a transportation route from Maryland to Washington, D.C., the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park now serves as an
area full of recreational opportunities, while maintaining the
historical structures of the old transportation route.
The park is comprised of 184 miles along the Potomac River, hosting
over 5 million visitors annually. The bill before us would reauthorize
the park's advisory commission until 2031 to allow them to continue
their leadership in working with their communities to enhance visitor
experience and recreational opportunities.
The advisory commission is key to ensuring that local communities
have a voice in the operation, maintenance, and restoration of the
park.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on the bill, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time and
continue to reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. Trone).
Mr. TRONE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today and urge a ``yes'' vote on my
bill, the C&O Canal National Historical Park Commission Extension Act.
Running from D.C. to Cumberland, Maryland, the park's 20,000 acres of
land are home to history. George Washington himself spearheaded the
efforts to navigate these waters and drive industry in our then-newly
formed Republic. For nearly 100 years, the canal transported lumber,
crops, and coal, crucial commerce for the many communities depending on
it for their livelihoods.
Now a national park, the C&O Canal is home to thousands of native
species, over 100 of which are listed as rare and threatened or
endangered by the State of Maryland, all of which must be fiercely
protected.
For more than 40 years, the advisory commission has served as a link
between the surrounding communities and the National Park Service to
manage and restore the park. The commission has a proven track record
of ensuring the growth and maintenance of the land, as well as
protection of the plants and animals living within it.
Every 10 years, Congress must reauthorize this commission for it to
continue the vital work, which brings us here today. I am proud to lead
this effort with my dear friend, Senator Ben Cardin, to ensure
Americans can enjoy, explore, and protect our park for generations to
come.
{time}  1615
I am honored to represent so many Marylanders who get to appreciate
the beauty and rich history of the C&O Canal every day.
By reauthorizing the commission, we are showing that Congress values
the investments in our Nation's natural resources.
I thank all Members from the C&O Canal region who support this
legislation: Representatives Beyer, Connolly, Holmes Norton, Mooney,
Raskin, and Wexton. I thank Natural Resources Committee Chair Westerman
for moving this bill through committee with unanimous support and
Chairwoman Dingell for her support.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ``yes'' vote.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, I have no further requests for time, and I
am prepared to close.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support the legislation, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, this is a commonsense bill that promotes
collaboration between Federal agencies and local stakeholders. It
achieves this without adding any burden on the American taxpayer.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the
gentleman from Arkansas (Mr. Westerman) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1727, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the opinion of the Chair, two-thirds
being in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I object to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to clause 8 of rule XX, further
proceedings on this question will be postponed.
The point of no quorum is considered withdrawn.
____________________