[Congressional Record Volume 166, Number 163 (Monday, September 21, 2020)]
[House]
[Pages H4589-H4592]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
STRENGTHENING THE OPPOSITION TO FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION ACT OF 2020
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 6100) to amend title 18, United States Code, to clarify
the criminalization of female genital mutilation, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 6100
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ``Strengthening the Opposition
to Female Genital Mutilation Act of 2020'' or the ``STOP FGM
Act of 2020''.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
The Congress finds the following:
(1) Female genital mutilation is recognized internationally
as a human rights violation and a form of child abuse, gender
discrimination, and violence against women and girls. Female
genital mutilation is a global problem whose eradication
requires international cooperation and enforcement at the
national level. The United States should demonstrate its
commitment to the rights of women and girls by leading the
way in the international community in banning this abhorrent
practice.
(2) Congress has previously prohibited the commission of
female genital mutilation on minors. Female genital
mutilation is a heinous practice that often inflicts
excruciating pain on its victims and causes them to suffer
grave physical and psychological harm.
(3) Congress has the power under article I, section 8 of
the Constitution to make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution treaties entered into
by the United States.
(4) Congress also has the power under the Commerce Clause
to prohibit female genital mutilation. An international
market for the practice exists, and persons who perform
female genital mutilation in other countries typically earn a
living from doing so.
(5) Those who perform this conduct often rely on a
connection to interstate or foreign commerce, such as
interstate or foreign travel, the transmission or receipt of
communications in interstate or foreign commerce, the use of
instruments traded in interstate or foreign commerce, or
payments of any kind in furtherance of this conduct.
(6) Amending the statute to specify a link to interstate or
foreign commerce would confirm that Congress has the
affirmative power to prohibit this conduct.
SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS TO CURRENT LAW ON FEMALE GENITAL
MUTILATION.
Section 116 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
(1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
``(a) Except as provided in subsection (b), whoever, in any
circumstance described in subsection (d), knowingly--
``(1) performs, attempts to perform, or conspires to
perform female genital mutilation on another person who has
not attained the age of 18 years;
``(2) being the parent, guardian, or caretaker of a person
who has not attained the age of 18 years facilitates or
consents to the female genital mutilation of such person; or
``(3) transports a person who has not attained the age of
18 years for the purpose of the performance of female genital
mutilation on such person,
shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 10
years, or both.'';
(2) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
``(c) It shall not be a defense to a prosecution under this
section that female genital mutilation is required as a
matter of religion, custom, tradition, ritual, or standard
practice.'';
(3) by striking subsection (d); and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
``(d) For the purposes of subsection (a), the circumstances
described in this subsection are that--
``(1) the defendant or victim traveled in interstate or
foreign commerce, or traveled using a means, channel,
facility, or instrumentality of interstate or foreign
commerce, in furtherance of or in connection with the conduct
described in subsection (a);
``(2) the defendant used a means, channel, facility, or
instrumentality of interstate or foreign commerce in
furtherance of or in connection with the conduct described in
subsection (a);
``(3) any payment of any kind was made, directly or
indirectly, in furtherance of or in connection with the
conduct described in subsection (a) using any means, channel,
facility, or instrumentality of interstate or foreign
commerce or in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce;
``(4) the defendant transmitted in interstate or foreign
commerce any communication relating to or in furtherance of
the conduct described in subsection (a) using any means,
channel, facility, or instrumentality of interstate or
foreign commerce or in or affecting interstate or foreign
commerce by any means or in manner, including by computer,
mail, wire, or electromagnetic transmission;
``(5) any instrument, item, substance, or other object that
has traveled in interstate or foreign commerce was used to
perform the conduct described in subsection (a);
``(6) the conduct described in subsection (a) occurred
within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of
the United States, or any territory or possession of the
United States; or
``(7) the conduct described in subsection (a) otherwise
occurred in or affected interstate or foreign commerce.
``(e) For purposes of this section, the term `female
genital mutilation' means any procedure performed for non-
medical reasons that involves partial or total removal of, or
other injury to, the external female genitalia, and
includes--
``(1) a clitoridectomy or the partial or total removal of
the clitoris or the prepuce or clitoral hood;
``(2) excision or the partial or total removal (with or
without excision of the clitoris) of the labia minora or the
labia majora, or both;
``(3) infibulation or the narrowing of the vaginal opening
(with or without excision of the clitoris); or
``(4) other procedures that are harmful to the external
female genitalia, including pricking, incising, scraping, or
cauterizing the genital area.''.
SEC. 4. REPORT.
Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of
this Act, and annually thereafter, the Attorney General, in
consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, and the Secretary of Education, shall submit to
Congress a report that includes--
(1) an estimate of the number of women and girls in the
United States at risk of or who have been subjected to female
genital mutilation;
(2) the protections available and actions taken, if any, by
Federal, State, and local agencies to protect such women and
girls; and
(3) the actions taken by Federal agencies to educate and
assist communities and key stakeholders about female genital
mutilation.
SEC. 5. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS.
It is the sense of the Congress that the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan erred in
invalidating the prior version of such section 116 (See
United States v. Nagarwala, 350 F. Supp. 3d 613, 631 (E.D.
Mich. 2018)). The commercial nature of female genital
mutilation (hereinafter in this section referred to as
``FGM'') is ``self-evident,'' meaning that the ``absence of
[[Page H4590]]
particularized findings'' about the commercial nature of FGM
in the predecessor statute did not ``call into question
Congress's authority to legislate'' (Gonzales v. Raich, 545
U.S. 1, 21 (2005)). Nevertheless, the Congress has elected to
amend the FGM statute to clarify the commercial nature of the
conduct that this statute regulates. But, by doing so,
Congress does not hereby ratify the district court's
erroneous interpretation in Nagarwala.
SEC. 6. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of
complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall
be determined by reference to the latest statement titled
``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this Act,
submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the
Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such
statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee) and the gentleman from North Dakota (Mr.
Armstrong) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Texas.
General Leave
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all
Members have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and
include extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentlewoman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, this bill is a long time in coming. And I extend a
general thank you for all of the legislative bills on the Committee of
the Judiciary that have come before us today, and the staff, and the
excellent work they have done. And let me particularly thank the
Subcommittee on Crime for the great work they have done on this
legislation, strengthening the opposition to Female Genital Mutilation
Act, or STOP FGM Act, to amend current law to ensure that the horrific
practice of female genital mutilation is Federally prohibited
consistent with constitutional restraints.
Let me indicate that we have been asked to engage. It is always good
to know that the Congress can do things to fix a skewed system that
harms individuals every single day, and in this instance, it is many
young people.
Mr. Speaker, the bill would ensure that it is a Federal crime to
knowingly:
One, perform, attempt to perform, or conspire to perform female
genital mutilation or FGM on a minor;
Two, while being a parent, guardian, or caretaker of a minor,
facilitate or consent to the female genital mutilation of the minor; or
Three, transport a minor for the purpose of the performance of female
genital mutilation on the minor.
The bill would also increase the statutory maximum term of
imprisonment for a violation of the statute from 5 years to 10 years,
though these are not mandatory minimums.
The bill is necessary because a district court in Michigan recently
dismissed the first Federal prosecution under the existing FGM statute,
finding that the acts prohibited did not have a significant nexus to
interstate commerce. We had to engage in fixing this issue.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 6100 addresses this issue by explicitly requiring
that one or more of the following circumstances must exist. The
defendant or victim's travel in interstate or foreign commerce, the
defendant's use of a means of interstate or foreign commerce, payment
of any kind made using any means, channel, facility or instrumentality
of interstate or foreign commerce, and the defendant's use of a means
of communication affecting interstate or foreign commerce. We are
therefore confident that this updated prohibition will pass
constitutional muster and it is critical that we take these steps to
update this statute.
Mr. Speaker, the one thing I will say is, we cannot let what is a
technical, legal act by the court to continue to provide no protection
for young, innocent victims. In the United States, approximately
500,000 women and girls were at risk for FGM or its consequences, and
more than 3 million girls are estimated to be at risk for FGM annually,
worldwide.
The U.S. Government has acknowledged the international implications
of FGM. For instance, in 2018 U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
initiated Operation Limelight USA, an outreach program designed by
ICE's Homeland Security Investigations Human Rights Violators and War
Crimes Unit, and I thank them for their work to educate travelers on
the dangers and consequences of FGM.
Yes, it is being done here in the United States, in pockets around
the Nation, where these women are mutilated for life. These girls, at a
very young age, are mutilated for life in the United States, where we
have been discussing on this floor your due process, the sanctity of
your own body, your privacy rights under the Ninth Amendment.
In addition, both the FBI and the Human Rights and Special
Prosecutions Section of the Criminal Division of the Department of
Justice work domestically to prosecute and investigate cases involving
FGM. We want to give them the tools that they can use to get it right.
Federal law enforcement agencies acknowledge that FGM is a global
issue and they work with international partners to eliminate this
horrific practice. FGM, therefore, is considered to have a substantial
effect on interstate commerce because, although illegal, there is an
established interstate and international market for the practice.
I include in the Record an article about female genital mutilation.
[From CNN Health, May 11, 2017]
3 US Women Share the Horrors of Female Genital Mutilation
(By Sonia Moghe)
East Lansing, Michigan (CNN)--Rahel Musa Aron was just 7
days old when the elders of her community in the African
nation of Eritrea performed a centuries-old ritual on her
tiny body, cutting off her clitoris and burying it.
Nearly six decades later, the Christian church leader and
mother of three daughters sits at home in this Midwestern
city and wonders.
What would the small sliver of skin have meant for her
life? Would childbirth have been different? Has she been
missing out on a deeper level of intimacy with her husband of
40 years?
``I'm sure that it has affected my feeling,'' Aron, 58,
told CNN. ``If it was not cut, maybe I would have enjoyed
whatever I would have enjoyed. It's a very sensitive area. So
if that's cut, imagine--imagine what I miss.''
Often discussed in whispers, the issue of female genital
mutilation grabbed headlines last month when, for the first
time, US prosecutors used a decades-old law that bans the
practice to charge two Detroit-area doctors and a medical
office manager in a case involving two 7-year-old girls. Now,
several women in the United States who endured the procedure
when they were young are sharing their stories--all with
elements that mirror the Michigan case--in hopes of ending it
for good.
When her own daughters were born, Aron decided the custom
endured by her mother and her grandmother would die with her.
``What I believe is, if (the clitoris) wasn't necessary,
God wouldn't have put it there,'' said Aron, a deaconess at
St. Luke Lutheran in Lansing, Michigan. ``If it was not
important, it would have not been there. It's part of our
body. It is there for a reason.''
Aron's scars aren't as severe as those borne by many of the
200 million women and girls around the globe--nearly a
quarter of them younger than 15--who have undergone the
practice, dubbed FGM or, to some survivors who dislike that
phrase, female ritual cutting.
The procedure, in which genital organs are altered or
injured for non-medical reasons to suppress sexuality, long
has been deemed a human rights violation. It's practiced at
all educational levels and social classes and among people of
many faiths, including Muslims and Christians, though no
religious text calls for it.
Though often undertaken as a cleansing custom, experts
roundly agree it has no medical benefits--and carries myriad
health risks, from childbirth and menstrual complications to
severe infections, post-traumatic stress, even death.
Still, the practice persists, mostly in African and Middle
Eastern nations--and in the United States, where the
estimated number of girls and women who have undergone it or
are at risk has tripled since 1990 to more than 500,000. The
increase reflects rapid growth in immigration from countries
where FGM is common.
While anti-cutting advocates hail efforts to hold offenders
accountable, this case also raises questions about whether
the accused--all members of the Dawoodi Bohra sect of Shia
Islam--are being targeted because of their faith. Meanwhile,
some worry that high-profile prosecutions could drive the
practice deeper underground, further endangering the very
girls and women the law aims to protect.
As the issue has gained attention, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement and the FBI opened national tip lines where
anyone
[[Page H4591]]
can report their experience or suspicions. But as several
advocates told CNN, the most important conversations may be
happening in homes and places of worship, as survivors share
their stories and work to end FGM.
``This thing,'' Aron said, ``needs to be talked about.''
`Special girls' trip'
The FBI started looking into the Detroit-area case in
October, when investigators learned that female genital
mutilation was being performed at the Burhani Medical Clinic.
Investigators in February learned that two 7-year-old girls
from Minnesota went to the clinic with their mothers for a
``special girls' trip'' that they weren't to tell anyone
about, documents show. One girl told the FBI their mothers
took them to the clinic because ``our tummies hurt'' and a
doctor would ``get the germs out.''
There were three people in the office, ``one to clean up
and two to hold (the child's) hands,'' the girl later told
investigators. The FBI says they were local emergency room
physician Dr. Jumana Nagarwala, clinic director Dr.
Fakhruddin Attar and his wife, Farida Attar, who managed the
office in Livonia, Michigan, court records show.
The girl said she took off her pants and underwear and laid
on an exam table with her knees near her chest and legs
spread apart, documents show.
Nagarwala then gave her a ``little pinch'' in the area
``where we go pee.'' She said the doctor told her and her
friend ``no bikes and no splits for three days,'' and the day
after the procedure, the area ``hurted a lot.''
The girl said she and her friend got cake afterward because
``they were doing good,'' documents show. An exam found the
girl's labia minora removed or altered, her clitoral hood
looking abnormal, plus scar tissue and small healing cuts,
court records show.
The Attars and Nagarwala each face two counts of female
genital mutilation, one count of conspiracy to commit female
genital mutilation, and one count of conspiracy to obstruct
an official proceeding. The physicians could face life in
prison if convicted.
``This brutal practice is conducted on girls for one
reason: to control them as women,'' Daniel Lemisch, acting US
Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan, said in a
statement. ``FGM will not be tolerated in the United
States.''
But attorneys for the accused say their clients are being
persecuted for practicing their religion. Nagarwala has
pleaded not guilty on all counts; the Attars have not entered
pleas, but their attorneys argue they are not guilty of all
the charges.
Cleansing ritual not illegal, lawyer says
Nagarwala acknowledges performing a procedure on both
girls, her lawyer, Shannon Smith, said. But it wasn't female
genital mutilation, she said, according to court documents;
it was a non-invasive, religious cleansing ritual in the
Dawoodi Bohra tradition, rooted in India.
Nagarwala, who has been terminated from her job at Henry
Ford Health System in light of this case, claims she used a
long scraper-like tool to wipe a small portion of mucus
membrane from the girls' clitorises, then put the membrane
onto gauze for their parents to bury, Smith said, adding that
her client denies removing tissue and says there was no
blood, documents show.
The political environment surrounding the federal
prosecution concerns Dina Francesca Haynes, a human rights
attorney who has worked on hundreds of FGM cases.
``During a time when vigilantism and xenophobia (are) high,
the likelihood that doctors of particular national origins
would be targeted seems to also be an additional risk,''
Haynes told CNN. ``It makes me uncomfortable that the first
prosecution here looks like it's focusing on a particular
community of people.''
Haynes doesn't like when ``my human rights issues are used
for a bigger agenda,'' she said.
Leaders of the Dawoodi Bohra mosque in Michigan, one of
several hubs of the sect in the United States, said in a
statement that they offered to help investigators.
``Any violation of US law is counter to instructions to our
community members,'' they said. ``It is an important rule of
the Dawoodi Bohras that we respect the laws of the land,
wherever we live. This is precisely what we have done for
several generations in America. We remind our members
regularly of their obligations.''
CNN's calls to mosques attended by the girls' parents and
the defendants were not returned.
`Never talk about it'
This case has caught the attention of FGM survivors across
the country, who share a common story: They were cut at a
young age and told not to speak of it.
In 1947, Renee Bergstrom was 3, living with her white,
fundamentalist Christian family in rural Minnesota. When her
mother saw her toddler touching herself, she worried.
``So, she took me to a doctor who said, `I can fix that,'
and removed my clitoris,'' Bergstrom told CNN.
Bergstrom remembers seeing her mother at the end of the
table. She remembers the pain. And she remembers feeling
betrayed.
``Later the day it happened, . . . she carried me around
until I quit crying,'' Bergstrom said. ``Even when I was very
little, she told me it was a mistake, but I was to never talk
about it.''
Now, nearly 70 years later, Bergstrom said the procedure
affected her entire life. Severe scarring fused part of her
labia; the skin wouldn't stretch when it came time to deliver
her three children.
Now Bergstrom has teamed up with another survivor in
Minnesota, a Somali woman, to spread awareness in the area's
large Somali community. They give pamphlets to expectant
mothers who survived the procedure so they can help their
doctors understand birthing options.
As she works to help immigrants from a country where FGM is
almost universal and where Islam is the law, Bergstrom said
she is concerned about Muslims being targeted in the United
States over the practice.
``This was done (to me) in white America by a
fundamentalist Christian doctor who practiced his religion
with a scalpel,'' she said. ``I am disturbed by the anti-
Muslim sentiment throughout the United States. I didn't want
this to be another form of discrimination against Muslims.''
`Complicated form of violence'
The father of one girl in the federal case told
investigators, ``If they knew what would come of it, this
would never have happened,'' documents show.
None of the parents in this case faces charges--and it's
possible they never will.
``The reality is, if you want children to report this . . .
some people would argue that it would deter young girls and
young women from seeking health care,'' Haynes said.
``Children tend to rally around their parents and other
adults in their life that they trust and wouldn't think to
report any kind of abuse until later.''
For many survivors, coming to terms with their mothers'
decisions to promote the practice is complex.
Mariya Taher was 7 when she went on vacation to Mumbai,
India, with her parents. She remembers walking into an
apartment with her mother. The atmosphere felt relaxed, with
older aunties there, too. She even laughed. She was the only
little girl there.
``Then, I remember, I was on the floor and my dress was
pushed in,'' Taher recalled. ``I remember feeling something
sharp and crying afterwards. One of the older women gave me a
soda. That's all I remember of it.''
Taher, now 34, said it wasn't until she was a teenager that
she read about FGM in Africa and realized what had happened
to her. Her scarring was minimal. All the same, she said, it
was a violation.
``I honestly had a great childhood, so it's really hard for
me to talk about this,'' she said. ``I feel that people paint
me as the picture of a victim, and I hate that. Yes, that was
a violent thing that was done to me, but it's also such a
complicated form of violence.''
Taher, whose mother and grandmother also endured cutting,
lives in Massachusetts and co-founded Sahiyo, an organization
that works to end the practice in the Dawoodi Bohra
community. She helps women tell their stories--of being cut,
of deciding not to cut, of pretending to have been cut in
order to fit in--through social media.
Years later, she also has realized perhaps the most
personal achievement of her work: She convinced her mother to
oppose FGM.
``We've had continual conversations,'' Taher said. ``I've
never blamed her.''
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Congress has the power under the Commerce Clause to
prohibit FGM, and that is why I was very glad to be the author and
sponsor of this legislation by introducing this--what the cosponsors
and I believe--is an important bipartisan bill.
My former colleague, Congressman Crowley of New York, worked with me
on this for many, many years. Our goal is to protect all women and
girls from the practice of FGM and to provide the Justice Department
with an effective means of prosecuting those who commit this terrible
act. That is why I support this legislation and authored this
legislation at the same time.
Mr. Speaker, as a senior member of the Committees on the Judiciary
and on Homeland Security, and the Congressional Black Caucus, and as
the bill sponsor, I rise in strong support of H.R. 6100, the
``Strengthening the Opposition to Female Genital Mutilation Act of
2020,'' which I introduced with the Congressman Bacon of Nebraska, the
lead cosponsor.
I want thank Chairman Nadler for his tremendous leadership during
this Congress and the past several months of hardship, stress, and
disruption not only of the regular normalized operations of this
Committee but of the Congress and more importantly, the lives of the
American people.
It has been said of Americans that we do the difficult immediately,
and the impossible takes a little longer.
The legislative session today is a testament to the determination of
this Committee that despite the coronavirus pandemic that has claimed
the life of over 200,000 Americans, that legislation to improve the
lives of the people we represent and the communities we serve will not
be halted.
The problems facing ordinary Americans due to flaws and inequities in
the criminal justice system, the immigration system, the health care
system, the economy, the trademark system and others do not take a
time-out because of the pandemic and neither does
[[Page H4592]]
this Congress, and for that I commend Speaker Pelosi, the House
Democratic leadership, and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle.
Mr. Speaker, female genital mutilation (FGM) is an abhorrent practice
and a recognizable international human rights violation.
H.R. 6100, the STOP FGM Act is necessary remedial legislative
modifying current law to aid women in several important respects.
Specifically, the legislation would:
1. Amend 18 U.S.C. Sec. 116 by setting forth three groups of persons
who can be prosecuted under the statute: (1) anyone who performs,
attempts to perform, or conspires to perform, female genital mutilation
on a minor; (2) a parent, guardian, or caretaker of a minor who
facilitates or consents to the female genital mutilation of the minor;
and (3) anyone who transports a minor for the purpose of performance of
female genital mutilation on the minor;
2. Increase the statutory maximum for a violation of the statute,
from 5 years to 10 years;
3. Prohibit a defendant charged with this offense from using as a
defense the argument that they were compelled to commit the offense
because of religion, custom, tradition, ritual, or standard practice;
and
4. Amend the existing statute to more explicitly define what types of
procedures constitute female genital mutilation.
Most significantly, the STOP FGM Act enables us to better address FGM
more comprehensively in the United States by requiring the Attorney
General, in consultation with other federal agencies, to submit an
annual report to Congress, to include the number of women and girls in
the United States at risk of FGM; the protections available and actions
taken; and the education and assistance provided to communities about
FGM.
Mr. Speaker, according to the World Health Organization (WHO) there
are no positive health benefits from practice of FGM and the procedure
can have severe long-term impacts on the physical, psychological,
sexual, and reproductive health of girls and women.
Earlier this year, on Sunday, March 8, we celebrated International
Women's Day, which is designed to help nations worldwide eliminate
discrimination against women.
International Women's Day focuses on helping women gain full and
equal participation in global development.
The practice of FGM violates girls' and women's rights to sexual and
reproductive health, security and physical integrity, their right to be
free from torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, and their
right to life when the procedure results in death.
In order for little girls to live their best lives as strong,
empowered women, we must protect them now as girls, to give them a
fighting chance.
The bipartisan STOP FGM Act takes a big and positive step in that
direction.
Mr. Speaker, in 2017, Dr. Nagarwala, a Michigan doctor performed this
brutal act on several minors.
The U.S. Department of Justice then prosecuted her and others for
violating the law.
It was the first federal case of its kind brought under the existing
statute.
Nagarwala challenged the law, and the district court agreed and found
that the statute was unconstitutional and that FGM is a `purely local
crime.'
However, according to the World Health Organization, it is estimated
that more than 200 million girls and women alive today have undergone
female genital mutilation.
Further, there are an estimated 3 million girls at risk of undergoing
female genital mutilation every year.
Because of the manner in which female genital mutilation is being
practiced in the United States, it affects interstate and foreign
commerce, the regulation of which the Constitution entrusts to the
Congress in Article I, section 8, clause 3.
Therefore, Congress has the authority under the Commerce Clause, as
well as Necessary and Proper Clause contained in Article I, section 8,
clause 17, to regulate, restrict, and even prohibit the practice of
FGM.
H.R. 6100 is a comprehensive response to addressing FGM more
effectively, and it includes input from a wide array of stakeholders,
including DOJ, anti-FGM advocates, clinicians, and CDC experts.
I strongly support this bipartisan legislation and ask my colleagues
to do the same.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 1600, the Stop FGM Act of
2020.
This bill outlaws a practice that is recognized internationally as a
human rights violation, and even torture. It is an extreme form of
discrimination against women and girls. Unfortunately, half a million
girls and women worldwide are subject to this torture or at risk for
it.
I am sure most people assumed that FGM was already illegal. It was.
In 1996, Congress prohibited the practice of FGM. But in 2018, a
Federal judge in Michigan dismissed charges against a doctor and others
from a local Indian Dawoodi Bohra community involved in the mutilation
of nine young girls. The judge ruled that the Federal Government does
not have the power to regulate FGM.
Since that time, the Justice Department has been able to stop these
acts of violence against America's young girls.
This bill will amend title 18 to make FGM that is performed for
nonmedical reasons a crime and overturn the judge's decision by
explicitly describing the constitutional basis for banning FGM under
the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution.
Mr. Speaker, I think all my colleagues can come together and support
this important bipartisan bill, and I urge my colleagues to join me in
supporting H.R. 6100.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I emphasize that the practice of FGM violates girls' and
women's rights to sexual and reproductive health, security, and
physical integrity, their right to be free from torture and cruel or
inhumane or degrading treatment, and their right to life when the
procedure results in death.
Let me be very clear: This is international, but it is happening in
the United States, and I think it is important for this Nation to stand
up to this dastardly act.
According to the World Health Organization, it is estimated that more
than 200 million girls and women alive today have undergone female
genital mutilation. Further, there are an estimated 3 million girls at
risk of undergoing female genital mutilation every year.
And because of the manner in which female genital mutilation is being
practiced in the United States, it affects interstate and foreign
commerce, the regulation which the Constitution entrusts in the
Constitution in Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3.
Mr. Speaker, I am very grateful to the Committee on the Judiciary's
staff for working together with me and my office, making this
legislation a real fix. Therefore, Congress has the authority under the
Commerce Clause, as well as the necessary and proper clause contained
in Article I, Section 8, to fix this, and that is what we have done.
Again, let me thank the chairman and ranking member of the full
committee and of the subcommittees, and all of the Members, for
supporting this legislation.
The STOP FGM Act is a critical measure to protect the health and
safety of girls in our communities and to ensure that those who would
engage in this horrific practice do not go unpunished.
This is bipartisan legislation, and I urge my colleagues to join me
in supporting this legislation and voting to stop these dastardly acts.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
{time}  1530
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 6100, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
____________________