[Congressional Record Volume 166, Number 163 (Monday, September 21, 2020)]
[House]
[Pages H4583-H4589]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
DOMESTIC TERRORISM PREVENTION ACT OF 2020
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 5602) to authorize dedicated domestic terrorism offices
within the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Justice,
and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to analyze and monitor domestic
terrorist activity and require the Federal Government to take steps to
prevent domestic terrorism, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 5602
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ``Domestic Terrorism
Prevention Act of 2020''.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Recent reports have demonstrated that White
supremacists and other far-right-wing extremists are the most
significant domestic terrorism threat facing the United
States, including--
(A) a February 22, 2019, New York Times op-ed, by a Trump
Administration United States Department of Justice official,
who wrote that ``white supremacy and far-right extremism are
among the greatest domestic-security threats facing the
United States. Regrettably, over the past 25 years, law
enforcement, at both the Federal and State levels, has been
slow to respond. . . . Killings committed by individuals and
groups associated with far-right extremist groups have risen
significantly.'';
(B) an April 2017 Government Accountability Office report
on the significant, lethal threat posed by domestic violent
extremists, which--
(i) explained that ``[s]ince September 12, 2001, the number
of fatalities caused by domestic violent extremists has
ranged from 1 to 49 in a given year.''; and
(ii) noted that ``[F]atalities resulting from attacks by
far right wing violent extremists have exceeded those caused
by radical Islamist violent extremists in 10 of the 15 years,
and were the same in 3 of the years since September 12, 2001.
Of the 85 violent extremist incidents that resulted in death
[[Page H4584]]
since September 12, 2001, far right wing violent extremist
groups were responsible for 62 (73 percent) while radical
Islamist violent extremists were responsible for 23 (27
percent).''; and
(C) an unclassified May 2017 joint intelligence bulletin
from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department
of Homeland Security, which found that ``white supremacist
extremism poses [a] persistent threat of lethal violence,''
and that White supremacists ``were responsible for 49
homicides in 26 attacks from 2000 to 2016 . . . more than any
other domestic extremist movement''.
(2) Recent domestic terrorist attacks include--
(A) the August 5, 2012, mass shooting at a Sikh gurdwara in
Oak Creek, Wisconsin, in which a White supremacist shot and
killed 6 members of the gurdwara;
(B) the April 13, 2014, mass shooting at a Jewish community
center and a Jewish assisted living facility in Overland
Park, Kansas, in which a neo-Nazi shot and killed 3
civilians, including a 14-year-old teenager;
(C) the June 8, 2014, ambush in Las Vegas, Nevada, in which
2 supporters of the far-right-wing ``patriot'' movement shot
and killed 2 police officers and a civilian;
(D) the June 17, 2015, mass shooting at the Emanuel AME
Church in Charleston, South Carolina, in which a White
supremacist shot and killed 9 members of the church;
(E) the November 27, 2015, mass shooting at a Planned
Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs, Colorado, in which an
anti-abortion extremist shot and killed a police officer and
2 civilians;
(F) the March 20, 2017, murder of an African-American man
in New York City, allegedly committed by a White supremacist
who reportedly traveled to New York ``for the purpose of
killing black men'';
(G) the May 26, 2017, attack in Portland, Oregon, in which
a White supremacist allegedly murdered 2 men and injured a
third after the men defended 2 young women whom the
individual had targeted with anti-Muslim hate speech;
(H) the August 12, 2017, attacks in Charlottesville,
Virginia, in which--
(i) a White supremacist killed one and injured nineteen
after driving his car through a crowd of individuals
protesting a neo-Nazi rally, and of which former Attorney
General Jeff Sessions said, ``It does meet the definition of
domestic terrorism in our statute.''; and
(ii) a group of 6 men linked to militia or White
supremacist groups assaulted an African-American man who had
been protesting the neo-Nazi rally in a downtown parking
garage;
(I) the July 2018 murder of an African-American woman from
Kansas City, Missouri, allegedly committed by a White
supremacist who reportedly bragged about being a member of
the Ku Klux Klan;
(J) the October 24, 2018, shooting in Jeffersontown,
Kentucky, in which a White man allegedly murdered 2 African
Americans at a grocery store after first attempting to enter
a church with a predominantly African-American congregation
during a service;
(K) the October 27, 2018, mass shooting at the Tree of Life
Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in which a White
nationalist allegedly shot and killed 11 members of the
congregation;
(L) the April 27, 2019, shooting at the Chabad of Poway
synagogue in California, in which a man yelling anti-Semitic
slurs allegedly killed a member of the congregation and
wounded 3 others;
(M) the August 3, 2019, mass shooting at a Walmart in El
Paso, Texas, in which a White supremacist with anti-immigrant
views killed 22 people and injured 26 others;
(N) the December 10, 2019, shooting at a Kosher supermarket
in Jersey City, New Jersey, in which 2 men with anti-Semitic
views killed 3 people in the store and a law enforcement
officer in an earlier encounter; and
(O) the December 28, 2019, machete attack at a Hanukkah
celebration in Monsey, New York, in which a man who had
expressed anti-Semitic views stabbed 5 individuals.
(3) In November 2019, the Federal Bureau of Investigation
released its annual hate crime incident report, which found
that in 2018, violent hate crimes reached a 16-year high.
Though the overall number of hate crimes decreased slightly
after three consecutive years of increases, the report found
a 4-percent increase in aggravated assaults, a 15-percent
increase in simple assaults, and a 13-percent increase in
intimidation. There was also a nearly 6-percent increase in
hate crimes directed at LGBTQ individuals and a 14-percent
increase in hate crimes directed at Hispanic and Latino
individuals. Nearly 60 percent of the religion-based hate
crimes reported targeted American Jews and Jewish
institutions. The previous year's report found that in 2017,
hate crimes increased by approximately 17 percent, including
a 23-percent increase in religion-based hate crimes, an 18-
percent increase in race-based crimes, and a 5-percent
increase in crimes directed against LGBTQ individuals. The
report analyzing 2016 data found that hate crimes increased
by almost 5 percent that year, including a 19-percent rise in
hate crimes against American Muslims. Similarly, the report
analyzing 2015 data found that hate crimes increased by 6
percent that year. Much of the 2015 increase came from a 66-
percent rise in attacks on American Muslims and a 9-percent
rise in attacks on American Jews. In all 4 reports, race-
based crimes were most numerous, and those crimes most often
targeted African Americans.
(4) On March 15, 2019, a White nationalist was arrested and
charged with murder after allegedly killing 50 Muslim
worshippers and injuring more than 40 in a massacre at the Al
Noor Mosque and Linwood Mosque in Christchurch, New Zealand.
The alleged shooter posted a hate-filled, xenophobic
manifesto that detailed his White nationalist ideology before
the massacre. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern labeled the
massacre a terrorist attack.
(5) In January 2017, a right-wing extremist who had
expressed anti-Muslim views was charged with murder for
allegedly killing 6 people and injuring 19 in a shooting
rampage at a mosque in Quebec City, Canada. It was the first-
ever mass shooting at a mosque in North America, and Prime
Minister Trudeau labeled it a terrorist attack.
(6) On February 15, 2019, Federal authorities arrested U.S.
Coast Guard Lieutenant Christopher Paul Hasson, who was
allegedly planning to kill a number of prominent journalists,
professors, judges, and ``leftists in general''. In court
filings, prosecutors described Lieutenant Hasson as a
``domestic terrorist'' who in an email ``identified himself
as a White Nationalist for over 30 years and advocated for
`focused violence' in order to establish a white homeland.''.
(7) On November 3rd, 2019 a 24 year old man who authorities
say was among masked Antifa supporters attacking
conservatives at a June Demonstration in Portland, Oregon,
was sentenced Friday to nearly six years in prison in
connection with brutal assault. Gage Halupowski pleaded
guilty to second-degree assault after authorities accused him
of using a weapon against a conservative demonstrator who
suffered blows to the head that the victim claims left him
with a concussion and cuts that required 25 staples to close.
(8) On December 12, 2019, an assailant involved in the
prolonged firefight in Jersey City, NJ, that left six people
dead, including one police officer, was linked on Wednesday
to the Black Hebrew Israelite movement, and had public anti-
Semitic posts online, a law enforcement official said.
(9) On February 8, 2020, A gunman stormed a NYPD precinct
after firing at police van, wounding 2. The police
commissioner called the Bronx rampage an ``assassination
attempt,'' on law enforcement.
(10) In August 2020, a juvenile armed with a semi-automatic
rifle heeded the online call posted by a self-proclaimed
militia group on Facebook to confront protestors in Kenosha,
Wisconsin. He allegedly shot and killed two protestors and
wounded a third. After the shootings, local police officers
waved the alleged murderer through their lines, even after
bystanders identified him as the shooter. The armed juvenile
then traveled across State lines to his home.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act--
(1) the term ``Director'' means the Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation;
(2) the term ``domestic terrorism'' has the meaning given
the term in section 2331 of title 18, United States Code,
except that it does not include acts perpetrated by
individuals associated with or inspired by--
(A) a foreign person or organization designated as a
foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189);
(B) an individual or organization designated under
Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); or
(C) a state sponsor of terrorism as determined by the
Secretary of State under section 6(j) of the Export
Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4605), section 40 of
the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780), or section 620A
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371);
(3) the term ``Domestic Terrorism Executive Committee''
means the committee within the Department of Justice tasked
with assessing and sharing information about ongoing domestic
terrorism threats;
(4) the term ``hate crime incident'' means an act described
in section 241, 245, 247, or 249 of title 18, United States
Code, or in section 901 of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 3631);
(5) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Homeland
Security; and
(6) the term ``uniformed services'' has the meaning given
the term in section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 4. OFFICES TO COMBAT DOMESTIC TERRORISM.
(a) Authorization of Offices To Monitor, Analyze,
Investigate, and Prosecute Domestic Terrorism.--
(1) Domestic terrorism unit.--There is authorized a
Domestic Terrorism Unit in the Office of Intelligence and
Analysis of the Department of Homeland Security, which shall
be responsible for monitoring and analyzing domestic
terrorism activity.
(2) Domestic terrorism office.--There is authorized a
Domestic Terrorism Office in the Counterterrorism Section of
the National Security Division of the Department of Justice--
(A) which shall be responsible for investigating and
prosecuting incidents of domestic terrorism; and
(B) which shall be headed by the Domestic Terrorism
Counsel.
(3) Domestic terrorism section of the fbi.--There is
authorized a Domestic Terrorism Section within the
Counterterrorism
[[Page H4585]]
Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which shall
be responsible for investigating domestic terrorism activity.
(4) Staffing.--The Secretary, the Attorney General, and the
Director shall each ensure that each office authorized under
this section in their respective agencies shall--
(A) have adequate number of employees to perform the
required duties;
(B) have not less than 1 employee dedicated to ensuring
compliance with civil rights and civil liberties laws and
regulations; and
(C) require that all employees undergo annual anti-bias
training.
(5) Sunset.--The offices authorized under this subsection
shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after the date
of enactment of this Act.
(b) Joint Report on Domestic Terrorism.--
(1) Biannual report required.--Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, and each 6 months
thereafter for the 10-year period beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
the Attorney General, and the Director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation shall submit a joint report authored by the
domestic terrorism offices authorized under paragraphs (1),
(2), and (3) of subsection (a) to--
(A) the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Select
Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on
Homeland Security, and the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
(2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1)
shall include--
(A) an assessment of the domestic terrorism threat posed by
White supremacists and neo-Nazis, including White supremacist
and neo-Nazi infiltration of Federal, State, and local law
enforcement agencies and the uniformed services; and
(B)(i) in the first report, an analysis of incidents or
attempted incidents of domestic terrorism that have occurred
in the United States since April 19, 1995, including any
White-supremacist-related incidents or attempted incidents;
and
(ii) in each subsequent report, an analysis of incidents or
attempted incidents of domestic terrorism that occurred in
the United States during the preceding 6 months, including
any White-supremacist-related incidents or attempted
incidents; and
(C) a quantitative analysis of domestic terrorism for the
preceding 6 months, including--
(i) the number of--
(I) domestic terrorism related assessments initiated by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, including the number of
assessments from each classification and subcategory, with a
specific classification or subcategory for those related to
White supremacism;
(II) domestic terrorism-related preliminary investigations
initiated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, including
the number of preliminary investigations from each
classification and subcategory, with a specific
classification or subcategory for those related to White
supremacism, and how many preliminary investigations resulted
from assessments;
(III) domestic terrorism-related full investigations
initiated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, including
the number of full investigations from each classification
and subcategory, with a specific classification or
subcategory for those related to White supremacism, and how
many full investigations resulted from preliminary
investigations and assessments;
(IV) domestic terrorism-related incidents, including the
number of incidents from each classification and subcategory,
with a specific classification or subcategory for those
related to White supremacism, the number of deaths and
injuries resulting from each incident, and a detailed
explanation of each incident;
(V) Federal domestic terrorism-related arrests, including
the number of arrests from each classification and
subcategory, with a specific classification or subcategory
for those related to White supremacism, and a detailed
explanation of each arrest;
(VI) Federal domestic terrorism-related indictments,
including the number of indictments from each classification
and subcategory, with a specific classification or
subcategory for those related to White supremacism, and a
detailed explanation of each indictment;
(VII) Federal domestic terrorism-related prosecutions,
including the number of incidents from each classification
and subcategory, with a specific classification or
subcategory for those related to White supremacism, and a
detailed explanation of each prosecution;
(VIII) Federal domestic terrorism-related convictions,
including the number of convictions from each classification
and subcategory, with a specific classification or
subcategory for those related to White supremacism, and a
detailed explanation of each conviction; and
(IX) Federal domestic terrorism-related weapons recoveries,
including the number of each type of weapon and the number of
weapons from each classification and subcategory, with a
specific classification or subcategory for those related to
White supremacism; and
(ii) an explanation of each individual case that progressed
through more than 1 of the stages described under clause (i),
including the specific classification or subcategory for each
case.
(3) Hate crimes.--In compiling a joint report under this
subsection, the domestic terrorism offices authorized under
paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a) shall, in
consultation with the Civil Rights Division of the Department
of Justice and the Civil Rights Unit of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, review each hate crime incident reported
during the preceding 6 months to determine whether the
incident also constitutes a domestic terrorism-related
incident.
(4) Classification and public release.--Each report
submitted under paragraph (1) shall be--
(A) unclassified, to the greatest extent possible, with a
classified annex only if necessary; and
(B) in the case of the unclassified portion of the report,
posted on the public websites of the Department of Homeland
Security, the Department of Justice, and the Federal Bureau
of Investigation.
(5) Nonduplication.--If two or more provisions of this
subsection or any other law impose requirements on an agency
to report or analyze information on domestic terrorism that
are substantially similar, the agency shall construe such
provisions as mutually supplemental, so as to provide for the
most extensive reporting or analysis, and shall comply with
each such requirement as fully as possible.
(c) Domestic Terrorism Executive Committee.--There is
authorized a Domestic Terrorism Executive Committee, which
shall--
(1) meet on a regular basis, and not less regularly than 4
times each year, to coordinate with United States Attorneys
and other key public safety officials across the country to
promote information sharing and ensure an effective,
responsive, and organized joint effort to combat domestic
terrorism; and
(2) be co-chaired by--
(A) the Domestic Terrorism Counsel authorized under
subsection (a)(2)(B);
(B) a United States Attorney or Assistant United States
Attorney;
(C) a member of the National Security Division of the
Department of Justice; and
(D) a member of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(d) Focus on Greatest Threats.--The domestic terrorism
offices authorized under paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of
subsection (a) shall focus their limited resources on the
most significant domestic terrorism threats, as determined by
the number of domestic terrorism-related incidents from each
category and subclassification in the joint report for the
preceding 6 months required under subsection (b).
SEC. 5. TRAINING TO COMBAT DOMESTIC TERRORISM.
(a) Required Training and Resources.--The Secretary, the
Attorney General, and the Director shall review the anti-
terrorism training and resource programs of their respective
agencies that are provided to Federal, State, local, and
Tribal law enforcement agencies, including the State and
Local Anti-Terrorism Program that is funded by the Bureau of
Justice Assistance of the Department of Justice, and ensure
that such programs include training and resources to assist
State, local, and Tribal law enforcement agencies in
understanding, detecting, deterring, and investigating acts
of domestic terrorism and White supremacist and neo-Nazi
infiltration of law enforcement and corrections agencies. The
domestic-terrorism training shall focus on the most
significant domestic terrorism threats, as determined by the
quantitative analysis in the joint report required under
section 4(b).
(b) Requirement.--Any individual who provides domestic
terrorism training required under this section shall have--
(1) expertise in domestic terrorism; and
(2) relevant academic, law enforcement, or other community-
based experience in matters related to domestic terrorism.
(c) Report.--
(1) In general.--Not later than 6 months after the date of
enactment of this Act and twice each year thereafter, the
Secretary, the Attorney General, and the Director shall each
submit a biannual report to the committees of Congress
described in section 4(b)(1) on the domestic terrorism
training implemented by their respective agencies under this
section, which shall include copies of all training materials
used and the names and qualifications of the individuals who
provide the training.
(2) Classification and public release.--Each report
submitted under paragraph (1) shall be--
(A) unclassified, to the greatest extent possible, with a
classified annex only if necessary; and
(B) in the case of the unclassified portion of each report,
posted on the public website of the Department of Homeland
Security, the Department of Justice, and the Federal Bureau
of Investigation.
SEC. 6. INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE.
(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Attorney General, the Director,
the Secretary, and the Secretary of Defense shall establish
an interagency task force to analyze and combat White
supremacist and neo-Nazi infiltration of the uniformed
services and Federal law enforcement agencies.
(b) Report.--
(1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the
interagency task force is established
[[Page H4586]]
under subsection (a), the Attorney General, the Director, the
Secretary, and the Secretary of Defense shall submit a joint
report on the findings of the task force and the response of
the Attorney General, the Director, the Secretary, and the
Secretary of Defense to such findings, to--
(A) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs of the Senate;
(C) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate;
(D) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
(E) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of
Representatives;
(F) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of
Representatives;
(G) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the
House of Representatives; and
(H) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of
Representatives.
(2) Classification and public release.--The report
submitted under paragraph (1) shall be--
(A) submitted in unclassified form, to the greatest extent
possible, with a classified annex only if necessary; and
(B) in the case of the unclassified portion of the report,
posted on the public website of the Department of Defense,
the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of
Justice, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
SEC. 7. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE SUPPORT FOR HATE CRIME
INCIDENTS WITH A NEXUS TO DOMESTIC TERRORISM.
(a) Community Relations Service.--The Community Relations
Service of the Department of Justice, authorized under
section 1001(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C.
2000g), may offer the support of the Service to communities
where the Department of Justice has brought charges in a hate
crime incident that has a nexus to domestic terrorism.
(b) Federal Bureau of Investigation.--Section 249 of title
18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
``(e) Federal Bureau of Investigation.--The Attorney
General, acting through the Director of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, shall assign a special agent or hate crimes
liaison to each field office of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation to investigate hate crimes incidents with a
nexus to domestic terrorism (as such term is defined in
section 3 of the Domestic Terrorism Prevention Act of
2020).''.
SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department
of Justice, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the
Department of Homeland Security, and the Department of
Defense such sums as may be necessary to carry out this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee) and the gentleman from North Dakota (Mr.
Armstrong) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Texas.
General Leave
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all
Members have 5 legislative days in which to revise and extend their
remarks and include extraneous material on the bill under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentlewoman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
First, I certainly want to thank all of the sponsors of this bill,
and I thank Mr. Schneider for all of the important work that has been
done on this legislation.
With the consideration of H.R. 5602, the Domestic Terrorism
Prevention Act, the House takes affirmative steps in this time to
address the rising menace of domestic terrorism and white supremacy.
This bill creates three offices, one each within the Department of
Homeland Security, the Department of Justice, and the Federal Bureau of
Investigation to monitor, investigate, and prosecute cases of domestic
terrorism.
These newly created offices would focus their resources based on data
collected on the most significant threats with specific emphasis on
white supremacist terrorism. Additionally, pursuant to this bill, DOJ
and DHS would issue joint biennial reports to Congress assessing the
state of domestic terrorism threats.
Let me say, Mr. Speaker, that this legislation is not based on a
whim. It is not based on someone's taste or distaste; likes or
dislikes. This is based on facts. And as we continue to view the
modeling of domestic terrorism, we will begin to continue to respond to
it legislatively. But now we have a solid base of information dealing
with the issues of growing white supremacy.
The creation of these offices and congressional reporting are much-
needed measures to refocus the Federal Government's domestic terrorism
efforts on the greatest threat to the American people: white supremacy
and white nationalism.
In April of last year, the Judiciary Committee held a hearing titled:
``Hate Crimes and the Rise of White Nationalism.'' Sadly, since then
there have been countless domestic terrorism attacks.
The shooting spree at a Walmart in El Paso, Texas, in August of 2019
was the deadliest attack in modern times against the Latino community
in the United States and the third deadliest act of violence by
domestic terrorism extremists in more than 50 years.
I joined my colleagues who represented that area, and the pain that
they experienced was without comparison. I went to a funeral. I went to
the memorial. I went to where the place was that had been set up as a
temporary place of honor. The pain was unceasing in that community. And
just a few months ago, they had to commemorate the bitterness of 1
year.
I also went to the hospital and visited individuals who had put
themselves in the line of fire to protect others. I think since that
time one person, in particular, has passed away.
This was a painful experience, and I can imagine that it will be
painful for a very long time.
In the last decade, places of worship, a Sikh temple in Milwaukee,
the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, Mother Emanuel, where
the victims who remained alive actually forgave the perpetrator who
came and sat down and prayed; sat among people who were praying, who
welcomed him. They lost a distinguished pastor and people who were so
kind. People could not understand why they lost their lives. Thousands
came to the memorial, and, of course, our President at that time,
President Obama. That is how painful it was for this Nation.
Then, of course, Pittsburgh's Tree of Life synagogue. I visited
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and met individuals who had been impacted by
this horrific tragedy. In the midst of Rosh Hashanah, to our friends
who are in the midst of their holiday, it is more than fitting that we
acknowledge how domestic terrorism can divide so many communities, so
many innocent communities, whether they happen to be of a particular
faith, a particular ethnicity, or a particular status.
We have seen all of this become tragic symbols of deadly threats a
white supremacist poses even to the faith community.
Just last Thursday in a committee that I participated in, FBI
Director Christopher Wray--the Homeland Security Committee--once again
stated that white supremacists constitute the largest portion of
racially motivated violent extremists.
In the same vein, before the House Homeland Security Committee,
Director Wray testified that antigovernment and antiauthority groups
have been responsible for the most lethal attacks this year. We know
that. So we want to be sure that we are protecting the American people.
None of us adhere to extremism or violence. We understand peaceful
protests, but we stand for the principles of democracy of this Nation
that has kept us a democracy for all of these many years.
Just a few weeks ago our Nation was reminded how dangerous violent
extremism can be. A rightwing militia boasting 3,000 members promoted
an event on Facebook calling for patriots willing to take up arms and
travel to Kenosha, Wisconsin, to confront protesters.
Tragically, hours later, a 17-year-old youth heeded the call,
traveled across State lines, and is alleged to have murdered two
protesters and injured a third. He has yet to be brought to justice
because he is still waiting on an extradition procedure.
Yet, local police allowed this young man to safely pass through their
lines and go home, despite the fact that bystanders had identified him
as the shooter. That was one incident.
We have seen law enforcement take up the issues of protecting our
neighbors across the Nation and in those instances, of course, we
recognize good policing and we thank them for it.
[[Page H4587]]
The tragic events in Kenosha are yet another example of how rightwing
militia groups continue to pose a present threat. Indeed, over the last
decade, rightwing extremists have been responsible for 76 percent of
all domestic extremist-related murders. The time for Congress to act is
now.
The key elements of the Domestic Terrorism Prevention Act seek to
address fundamental deficiencies highlighted at the April 2019
Judiciary Committee hearing in the Federal Government's response to
domestic terrorism and specifically white supremacy.
Let me be very clear. We want a comprehensive response to terrorism.
We want to rely upon our intelligence communities as it relates to
international terrorism.
{time}  1500
We have done so because I have been on the Homeland Security
Committee for a very long time and, as well, have seen the work of the
Judiciary Committee. But we must be comprehensive in looking at
terrorism; we must be responsive; and we must secure and make sure the
American people are safe.
Currently, the Federal Government has a number of statutory
authorities to bring charges against domestic terrorists, including
those who are white supremacists. Yet, it is clear that the Department
of Justice has not initiated a sufficient number of these prosecutions.
H.R. 5602 creates offices within the DOJ and DHS aimed at pooling the
resources from all parts of each respective Department to focus them on
the greatest threat of white supremacy.
The reporting elements of this bill aim to keep Congress better
informed of the domestic terrorism threats presented so that Congress
can more readily assess what resources and authorities are necessary to
protect the country against domestic terrorist activities.
I am well aware of the work that was done in the last administration
of trying to neutralize the idea of radicalizing individuals who were
dealing with ISIS, al-Qaida, and others. Unfortunately, even that has
been taken away from the work that we have been doing. This may be a
time that that work begins to rise up as it relates to white supremacy
and white nationalism.
This legislation is a necessary and measured response to the real
threats this country faces.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to support this legislation,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, at a time when violent extremists are destroying cities
nationwide, our Democratic colleagues here in the House continue to
ignore this violence. The chairman of the Judiciary Committee even
called Antifa violence a myth and imaginary. Instead of addressing
violent leftwing extremism head-on, my colleagues across the aisle only
want to use this bill for political purposes. They are not interested
in passing legislation that would make any real difference in rooting
out violence in our communities.
Democrats are unable to call out the violent anarchists who are
burning down cities all around the country. Instead, they seem to want
to paint a picture that ties only conservatives to domestic terrorism.
Not only is this bill blatantly political on its face, but it increases
our already bloated bureaucracy by adding three new separate offices to
do the exact same thing. That is the very definition of duplication and
government waste.
We already have dedicated law enforcement who fight domestic
terrorism every day, and we should recognize them, commend them, and
let them do their jobs. Unfortunately, my colleagues across the aisle
likely will not do that either.
Democrats must end the partisan charades. Democrats must stop
ignoring the leftwing violence and crime that has taken over American
cities. Instead of this biased approach in this bill, we should pass
legislation that roots out all kinds of domestic terrorism, not just
the type that is politically convenient for Democrats.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing H.R. 5602,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, just one point that I want to make as I
yield to the author and leader on this bill is that we are continuously
fighting a known, recognized domestic terrorism. This vital bill will
provide the reporting for a roadmap to do the right thing. That is what
the Federal Government is challenged and charged to do.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the distinguished gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. Schneider). Congressman Schneider is a member of the
Judiciary Committee and is the author of this legislation.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, the gentlewoman from
Texas, for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise in support of my bill, H.R. 5602, the
Domestic Terrorism Prevention Act of 2020.
White supremacists and other far-right extremists are the most
significant domestic terrorism threat facing the United States. Don't
take my word for it. Making that point last week in testimony to the
House Homeland Security Committee, FBI Director Christopher Wray stated
that domestic violence extremists, DVEs, ``pose a steady and evolving
threat of violence and economic harm to the United States.''
He notes in his next paragraph: ``The top threat we face from
domestic violent extremists stems from those we identify as racially/
ethnically motivated violent extremists (RMVE).''
RMVEs were the primary source of ideologically motivated lethal
incidents and violence in 2018 and 2019. From the Tree of Life
synagogue to Walmart in El Paso, Texas, we have all tragically seen the
deadly effect.
According to the Southern Poverty Law Center, the number of white
nationalist groups rose by 55 percent since 2017. Last November, the
FBI reported violent hate crimes reached a 16-year high in 2018, and
that number went up in 2019.
Groups like the boogaloos, Rise Above Movement, and white nationalist
militias across the country are organizing, and so must we. Therefore,
we need to equip our law enforcement officials, the FBI, and the
Departments of Justice and Homeland Security with the tools necessary
to identify, monitor, and prevent acts of violent terrorism.
The bill before us today does just that. It establishes offices
within the FBI, the Department of Justice, and the Department of
Homeland Security and empowers them to coordinate their efforts with
each other. It requires them to report to Congress twice a year on the
assessment of the threats, ranking them and allocating the resources
based on their assessed threats.
Congress must, with a single voice, definitively state that if you or
your group is plotting violence or taking weapons--be they guns or
knives or otherwise--into a crowd to intimidate or coerce others to
further your ideological goals, you are a terrorist and will be treated
as such.
This is not a partisan issue but one that affects all Americans'
personal and economic security. This bill passed out of committee with
bipartisan support overwhelmingly, 24-2.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my colleagues to vote ``yes.'' This bill
will make a real difference. Again, I thank the chairman and the
Speaker for bringing my bill to the House today.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he may consume to
the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. Jordan), the ranking member of the
Judiciary Committee.
Mr. JORDAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, Republicans denounce all violent extremism. Why won't
the Democrats?
Weeks ago in the committee, the Attorney General of the United States
asked the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, asked the Democrats, why
won't you speak out against the mob? Why won't you speak out against
the violence that is taking place in our great cities all across the
country this past summer?
Guess what he got. Total, total silence.
We have a bill on domestic terrorism, but a bill that barely mentions
Antifa, one reference.
Mr. Speaker, do you know why the one reference is in there? Because
Republicans on the committee, through
[[Page H4588]]
Mr. Steube, offered an amendment in the committee.
Not mentioned in the bill are two things that have happened in the
last 30 days. The cold-blooded murder of a Trump supporter by an Antifa
member was not mentioned in the resolution and is not mentioned in the
bill. Not mentioned in the bill is the assassination attempt on two
police officers sitting in their patrol car just 2 weeks ago.
Let's condemn all violent extremism. Maybe they won't do that
because, as my good friend from North Dakota said, the chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, the committee with that storied history of
defending the rule of law, maybe because that individual said that
Antifa is imaginary and that Antifa is a myth.
Ask Andy Ngo that, Mr. Speaker. Ask the journalist who was attacked
by Antifa a year ago. Ask the people in Portland, Oregon. For over 100
days, their city has been under siege. There has been a siege on the
Federal court building there by Antifa, but one reference only in their
legislation, and that is only there because Mr. Steube offered the
amendment in committee.
For over 100 days, this organization has been targeting the business
owners, the people, and the residents in Portland, Oregon, and in other
cities around our country. Democrats can call what has been happening
to our cities all summer peaceful protests, but calling rioting,
looting, and arson peaceful protests doesn't make it so.
Let's condemn all of it. We should speak out against all domestic
terrorism. We should denounce the violence--the rioting, the looting,
and the arson--that is taking place in our cities. We should not have
another political messaging bill, which is exactly what this is.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, would you share the time remaining,
please.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gentlewoman from Texas has 8 minutes
remaining. The gentleman from North Dakota has 16 minutes remaining.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, let me thank my good friend from Ohio for bringing to
our attention something that I think is very important. Then, it allows
me to say that I don't know one single person in this body who condones
violent protests. I have not run into anyone in the Judiciary
Committee, and I have not seen anyone on the floor on either side of
the aisle. That is why this legislation is so crucial because it
generated bipartisan support on the work that the Congress should do.
What is it that the Congress should do? Find a way for our agencies
to work together.
In the Judiciary Committee, we had a hearing with the Attorney
General on the question of domestic terrorism. In the Homeland Security
Committee, we had a hearing on the question of domestic terrorism. I
think we found some, if you will, collegiality in recognizing that
white supremacy and white nationalism were the greatest threat to
domestic security.
I remember in this legislation the generosity of Mr. Schneider and my
commitment when the committee added Mr. Steube's--a Republican's--
amendment at markup that included findings that addressed
antigovernment actors and violence against police. We passed that in a
bipartisan way. I want to remind my colleagues that the legislation
itself was passed in a bipartisan manner.
We have seen what happens when we undermine coordination. We see what
happens when the pandemic office was dismissed out of the White House
that was coordinating with agencies on COVID-19 or other pandemics. We
see the confusion that we have.
This legislation is simply trying to make sure that our very fine
public servants who are fighting domestic terrorism are fighting it
with the best informational tools they can get.
How do they do that? With this very fine legislation that allows us
to be able to get the right kind of data.
I want to just indicate a lot of things have been happening. I have
watched peaceful protesters be subjected to violence. My heart goes
out. Those are someone's children; they are young people; and they have
a right to be protesting. They have a right, as our dear beloved
colleague has always said, to speak up. John Robert Lewis always said
to speak up and get into good trouble to make this Nation better.
I have not heard any Member of this body not condemn, in the
strongest terms, the shooting of Los Angeles deputies and are pleased
to hear that they are recovering.
I would just indicate that we need to adhere to what is right. This
legislation is laying us on a pathway of getting facts and information
so that we can do what is right to secure the American people.
Mr. Speaker, I have no further speakers, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I was in the committee when we did this
and when we accepted Republican amendments and garnered some support
from people on my side of the aisle in committee. I have no doubt that
my friends on the other side of the aisle condemn all kinds of
violence, but somewhere between committee and here things got added to
the bill.
Mr. Speaker, do you know what didn't get added? Not one mention of
the horrific attack against two police officers shot at pointblank
range in their patrol car. The bill did not mention the murder of a
Trump supporter in Portland. But we did manage to mention the juvenile
from Kenosha.
So, while the gentlewoman says she supports a certain thing or nobody
condones certain things, their actions on how this occurs show us where
their priorities are. The priorities are political because we could
have added all of these things.
I find it interesting and odd on the same day that we are talking
about due process, rights to effective assistance of counsel, justice
for juveniles, and all the election integrity and voting, we don't
condemn the burning down of the post office in Minneapolis. We don't
talk about these other things, but we will make sure we mention a
juvenile offender in Kenosha prior to any of his court hearings being
held.
We can talk about delaying justice and the administration of justice,
but that is not how it reads in the bill, and that is not how it was
spoken to on the floor.
Mr. Speaker, if we are going to do this, all I ask is that we are
consistent. The gentlewoman can stand here and say that we condemn all
forms of violence, but only one made it into the bill after committee.
That is because it fits a particular political narrative, and we have
no interest in actually rooting out domestic terrorism wherever it
exists. We want to make sure it fits a particular narrative. That is
what this bill is about, and that is why we should oppose it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
{time}  1515
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
I thank the gentleman for his commentary, but I am going to rise and
ask my colleagues to support this legislation in a bipartisan manner.
As indicated--I would correct my friend's interpretation--Mr.
Steube's amendment was added in the markup and the findings at that
time addressed antigovernment actors and violence against police. We
made it very clear, and it was bipartisan, that we condemn violence of
any kind.
But what I would say as well is that the simple addition as it
relates to Kenosha was in sharp contrast to the visual, the video, of a
direct skin contact shooting of an individual whose back was turned,
and then the call across the Nation for white supremacists and white
nationalists to come and defend.
Defend what?
There was law enforcement there. I think the governor had even asked
for the Wisconsin National Guard to safeguard everyone.
But here was someone that came--a teenager. I am grateful that he
remained alive; grateful. But he walked with guns, and is alleged to
have killed, harmed, three people at least, never was confronted by
officers, of course, to our knowledge, and got home to sleep in his
bed.
On the other hand, Jacob Blake, whose father I met, wound up in ICU,
wound up paralyzed, a victim in the Kenosha shootings.
And so it is crucial that we get the facts of what this legislation
wants to
[[Page H4589]]
do, and that we don't get a young man from Illinois versus another
young man from Ohio, who was 12 years old--Tamir Rice--who didn't get
to go home. We want to make sure that we have fairness.
Mr. Speaker, as I said, I am very concerned about the shootings of
these individuals, the Los Angeles deputies. We don't know the motives
of the assailants. It remains unknown. But we continue to seek justice
for them, and we want to make sure that the threat of white
supremacists and domestic terrorism is known.
Mr. Speaker, this bill directs that directly and I think it will
provide for a very important tool for our law enforcement--unbiased--
without any effort to try and stigmatize anyone.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, domestic terrorism is a serious threat to
our country. We must take real action to address the rise of hate
crimes and white supremacy. This legislation would address the rising
tide of white supremacy without impinging on constitutional rights.
It reflects a careful balance between empowering the investigatory
agencies of the Federal Government to curb hateful and dangerous
incidents of domestic terrorism and protecting the rights of free
speech and assembly.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative Brad Schneider for his leadership
and his diligent work on this important legislation during this
Congress. We will be better for the passage of this legislation. The
Nation will be better. It is critical that we adopt this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to support this bipartisan
legislation, passed out of the Committee on the Judiciary in a
bipartisan vote, and I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. Jackson Lee) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 5602, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
____________________