[Congressional Record Volume 170, Number 108 (Thursday, June 27, 2024)]
[House]
[Pages H4354-H4389]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2025
General Leave
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on H.R. 8774, and that I may include
tabular material on the same.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. Ellzey). Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from California?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to House Resolution 1316 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union for the consideration of the bill, H.R. 8774.
The Chair appoints the gentleman from North Dakota (Mr. Armstrong) to
preside over the Committee of the Whole.
{time}  1304
In the Committee of the Whole
Accordingly, the House resolved itself into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for the consideration of the bill
(H.R. 8774) making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2025, and for other purposes, with Mr.
Armstrong in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the bill is considered read the
first time. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not
exceed 1 hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations.
The gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert) and the gentlewoman from
Minnesota (Ms. McCollum) each will control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I rise today to offer H.R. 8774, the 2025 Department of Defense
Appropriations Act. I want to start by thanking Chairman Cole for his
leadership in this process. I also thank the Defense Subcommittee
ranking member, Ms. McCollum, for her friendship and partnership
through this. Finally, I thank the Defense Subcommittee staff for their
tireless work on this year's bill.
H.R. 8774 provides $833 billion for the Department of Defense and the
intelligence community. Consistent with the Fiscal Responsibility Act,
this is 1 percent, or $8.5 billion, above fiscal year 2024 enacted
levels.
While $833 billion is the discretionary cap, the subcommittee has
little discretion over 62 percent of this bill. The funding goes toward
must-pay bills, including troop and civilian pay; military benefits,
medical care, and family services; sustainment of current weapons
systems; fuel, utilities, IT, basic supplies; and training and
education. This is to say nothing of necessary investments in major
weapons systems to keep our military dominant in an intensifying threat
environment.
These factors are why I believe the current defense top line is too
low for today's needs.
Present and emerging threats mandate a robust U.S. military, which,
as former Secretary of Defense James Mattis said, requires at least 3
to 5 percent real growth above inflation.
Finally, due to the decision to consolidate our defense industry over
30 years ago, America's defense industrial base is brittle and unable
to mobilize without significant investment.
While the defense allocation under the FRA is too low to meet
America's national security needs, it is the law of the land. This bill
is written to be consistent with this law.
[[Page H4355]]
Today's threats mandate a resolute United States made credible with a
capable, lethal, and ready military.
The Appropriations Defense Subcommittee scrutinized the fiscal year
2025 budget request line by line and conducted rigorous oversight. This
resulted in $18 billion in cuts of requests that were unnecessary or
unjustified. This bill provides no blank checks.
Instead, this bill builds on the priorities from fiscal year 2024.
These include prioritizing the fight against China, promoting
innovation and modernization, supporting our servicemembers and their
families, optimizing the Pentagon's civilian workforce, increasing the
Department's role in countering the flow of illicit fentanyl and
synthetic opioids, supporting America's close ally, Israel, and
ensuring the Department focuses on its core mission of training and
equipping our warfighters and not culture wars.
Time is not on our side. President Xi is planning to invade Taiwan
potentially by 2027, if not sooner. The only way to prevent Chinese
aggression is by fielding and operating capabilities that demonstrate
America's military advantage.
To this end, the bill increases investments in fifth- and sixth-
generation aircraft, procures deliverable capability including several
INDOPACOM unfunded priorities. It prohibits the divestment of certain
naval and air assets that are still combat-credible. It provides $200
million for Taiwan security cooperation programs while prioritizing
defense articles and services to the threatened island.
The bill also continues investments in the reawakening and
acceleration of American defense innovation. Our defense industrial
base is fragile, and competition is stifled. Almost every major defense
acquisition program is plagued by persistent inflation, an aging
workforce, costly infrastructure, weak supply chains, overly optimistic
schedules, unrealistic budgets, and ultimately overpromised results.
We can trace this back to then-Secretary of Defense Aspin's defense
contractor version of the Last Supper back in 1993 when the defense
industrial base consolidated from two dozen defense prime contractors
to the five that we have today. The consequences of this decision
mandate action, which must be achieved through an innovation
intervention. America's legacy of innovation and entrepreneurs gives us
an asymmetric advantage our competitors could never replicate.
This bill seeks to tap into that opportunity with over $1.3 billion
for the Department of Defense Innovation Unit and related innovation
efforts, including $400 million for the highly successful APFIT
program.
Modern and innovative practices are needed in more than just our
defense capability. The Pentagon workforce and business practices also
need to enter into the 21st century. This bill cuts $916 million in
unjustified civilian workforce requests and finds more efficient ways
to do business.
Recognizing the national security threat posed by China's supply of
fentanyl-based chemicals to Mexican drug cartels, this bill maintains
high levels of funding for DOD's drug interdiction and counterdrug
activities with $1.14 billion. This includes an increase for the
National Guard Counterdrug Program and the National Guard Youth
Challenge Program, empowering States to take a more active role in the
defense of their communities from our number one foreign adversary.
This bill also transfers Mexico from NORTHCOM to SOUTHCOM for
improved coordination and prioritization.
As I mentioned at the outset, this bill focuses the Department on its
warfighting mission. The bill includes multiple general provisions from
the House fiscal year 2024 bill that pivot the Pentagon away from
divisive partisan policies and toward military readiness.
Finally, underpinning all of these priorities funded in the bill is
the imperative to support our servicemembers and their families. The
bill includes a 4.5 percent pay raise for all military personnel plus
$2.5 billion toward an additional 15 percent pay raise for junior
enlisted servicemembers. This will have a positive effect on
recruitment and retention and will improve the quality of life for our
servicemembers and their families serving with them.
I am proud of this year's Defense appropriations bill, which adheres
to the fiscal year constraints while providing a strong military to
defend America, our allies, and our partners.
This bill procures where we can, trains where we must, and invests in
capability that will make our adversaries wake up every day and say:
Today is not the day to provoke the United States of America.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
I rise today in opposition to H.R. 8774, the Department of Defense
Appropriations Act, 2025, but I want to start by recognizing the
outstanding work of the staff: Jennifer Chartrand and Jason Gray on the
minority side here with me, Ben Peterson and my Defense fellow, Patrick
Carr, in my personal office. I also acknowledge the great work of the
majority staff, with a big shout-out to Johnnie Kaberle. I thank them
for their hard work.
I thank Chairman Calvert as well for his leadership on the
subcommittee and for his warm friendship.
I recognize three Members particularly because this will be their
last Defense bill. First and foremost is Chairwoman Kay Granger, the
very first woman to lead this subcommittee, and on my side of the aisle
are Dutch Ruppersberger and Derek Kilmer. We will miss them greatly. I
thank each and every one of them for their years of work on our
subcommittee and for their commitment to America's national security.
Turning to the bill, the fiscal year 2025 Defense Appropriations Act
totals $833 billion, slightly over President Biden's budget request. I
appreciate that the bill conforms to the Fiscal Responsibility Act,
however, I do have deep concerns with this bill on how it will impact
our military's readiness and unit cohesion.
To honor the sacrifice of those who have fought for freedom, we need
to foster a climate in our military that appreciates and supports all
Americans who choose to take the oath to serve. Unfortunately, at this
time, this bill does not reflect that sentiment.
In 1948, in a speech to the British House of Commons, Winston
Churchill said: ``Those that fail to learn from history are doomed to
repeat it.''
The bill before us repeats the same mistakes as the FY24 House
proposal. Once again, this bill includes partisan social riders that
led to continuing resolutions spanning over 5 months of this fiscal
year. All these riders were just rejected in the FY24 conference
committee agreement we passed in March.
{time}  1315
Now, we all understand we are in a new geopolitical era where our
Nation faces grave threats that we must respond to swiftly, but once
again, the majority has included riders that they know will not become
law. This will only serve to repeat a process that nearly ended in a
full-year continuing resolution.
If that is not enough, there are provisions in this bill that are
simply outside the jurisdiction of the Defense Subcommittee. That
includes prohibiting funds for the United Nations Relief and Works
Agency, an organization the Department of Defense has never funded, or
a provision related to the IRS tax treatment of individuals who hold a
belief that marriage is a union between one man and one woman only.
These provisions, and some of the amendments yet to be considered,
are just not germane to this bill. This subcommittee, I believe, must
stop wasting valuable time on issues outside of our jurisdiction
because our national security cannot afford to waste another 5 months
as we did last year.
These provisions, again, only create division in Congress, which will
impact our Armed Forces. I will address a few of them.
This bill, once again, prohibits the Department of Defense's policy
to ensure that servicemembers and their families have access to leave
and travel allowances for basic reproductive healthcare.
I am extremely disappointed that the Rules Committee failed to make
my amendment in order, which would have struck down this outrageous
provision from the bill. We know that the Department's policy is legal
under Federal law. The Justice Department has
[[Page H4356]]
concluded that fact. In fact, the Department of Justice stated: ``The
Department of Defense may lawfully expend funds to pay for
servicemembers and their dependents to travel to obtain abortions that
DOD cannot itself perform due to statutory requirements.''
The statutory requirement that they are talking about is the Hyde
amendment, Mr. Chair.
To be clear, I do not support the Hyde amendment. Like last year, I
think it is important to address it and for America to understand what
the provision in this bill does to the services that would be legally
provided under the Hyde amendment.
Hyde prohibits the DOD from using funds or facilities to perform
abortions except in the case of rape, incest, or when the life of the
mother is in danger.
Eighteen States have enacted total or 6-week abortion bans. Some of
these States do not even have an exception for rape or for incest. This
bill interprets the Hyde amendment in a way that it was never intended.
If your assigned duty station is one of these 18 States, you have no
access to the Hyde amendment exceptions. You must travel for your
healthcare, and you are entitled to do that.
Those living in the 18 States comprise 80,000 servicewomen and
170,000 spouses. That is a total of 250,000 women in military
communities without access to reproductive healthcare.
This language is a de facto national abortion ban for women who serve
alongside and in the military. Women will exit the force because of
this. Husbands and fathers will not want to serve in States where their
families could be negatively impacted.
I only wish the majority would have had the courage to bring my
amendment to the floor. Our servicemembers and their families deserve
that debate.
Once again, there are provisions in this bill that disenfranchise
lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender servicemembers, rather than
making our military a welcoming and inclusive place for all of those
who wish to serve this country. There are approximately 79,000 LGBTQ+
Americans that serve in our Armed Forces, yet these provisions included
in this bill needlessly attack the inclusion efforts and the diversity
efforts by the Department.
Our military is the only institution in our country that most broadly
reflects the entire American population, and that includes over one-
third of Active-Duty servicemembers who identify with a minority group.
We know we are facing recruitment challenges in the service, but we
did hear from the Army and the Navy this year that they are seeing
improvements in their recruitment numbers. That is great news. Why
would this Congress want to include provisions that might dissuade any
American, regardless of their background, from taking the oath of
service?
Beyond the contentious social policies, there are other elements of
this bill I cannot support. First, the bill continues to treat climate
change as if it is not happening and it is not a national security
threat. We know for a fact that it is.
We have seen the impacts of severe weather events on installations
year after year. Just look at Guam as a recent example. Over $50
billion in repairs will be needed for the installations on Guam which
were damaged by a typhoon last year. With all of the military
construction funding going to Guam, the infrastructure vulnerability on
this island is very clear, and we must address it.
Then there is Alaska. Alaska continues to experience melting
permafrost, which damages runways and radar stations all across the
State.
We are spending sustainment and research dollars to protect these
installations in the best way we can. By cutting climate programs, we
harm resiliency, and, Mr. Chair, we are going to pay for it on the back
end.
Second, the bill cuts the security funding for the Ukraine Security
Assistance Initiative. I recently met with President Zelenskyy, and he
expressed how grateful the Ukrainian people were that the United States
had finally delivered additional ammunition to help Ukraine repel
Putin's invasion.
We know this bill should include the long-term assistance that
Ukraine needs. This funding has been in the base bill, in fact, since
2016. The funding that we put in the base bill signals that the West
stands with them in their fight for their own self-determination. It is
assistance that will continue to enhance Ukraine's military ability to
work with NATO forces.
Failure to continue funding that has been a longstanding, bipartisan
initiative to support Ukraine sends a terrible signal that will only
embolden Putin.
Third, the bill again limits the ability of our government to address
disinformation. Our foreign adversaries use social media to spread
disinformation here at home in the United States.
Just look at what Russia did leading up to the invasion in Ukraine.
Russia used social media to spread harmful lies about nonexistent
Ukrainian-American chemical and biological weapons programs. None of it
was true. None of it existed.
What was true is that Russia had an active chemical weapons program
of their own. They were in violation of the international obligations
under the Chemical Weapons Convention.
This bill deprives the Department of their responsibility to set the
facts straight. It would let bad actors like Russia continue to spread
disinformation unchallenged, and that is downright dangerous.
Mr. Chair, regrettably, at this time I will be unable to vote for
passage of this bill, and I cannot recommend to my colleagues that they
support it.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. Ellzey), a member of the Defense Subcommittee.
Mr. ELLZEY. Mr. Chair, today, I rise in strong support of this bill
as a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee.
I commend Chairman Calvert and his team behind us for legislation
that makes investments in our national defense. This bill invests in
technology, innovation, and people with an eye on tomorrow while
sustaining today's important platforms, such as the F-35 strike
fighter.
If we prioritize social issues over lethality, our enemies will take
note. Our colleagues across the aisle seem to prioritize shaking a fist
at Mother Nature over standing strong against our enemies.
Make no mistake: This bill comes at a time of global conflict. Today
seems a lot more like June 1938 than June 2024.
In the Middle East, Iran is sponsoring Houthis to shut down commerce
in the Red Sea, which directly affects prices here at home. They are
sponsoring, training, funding, and directing Hamas and Hezbollah in
conflict with our good friends in Israel.
On the European Continent, for the first time since World War II and
the formation of both NATO and the U.N., Russia's full-scale invasion
of Ukraine foreshadows more imperial expansion and the desire to
reconstitute the Soviet Union.
On the Korean Peninsula, we are technically still at war.
Finally, China is waging cyber warfare and chemical warfare here in
our own homes and on our own border. Through the proliferation of
fentanyl, all of the compounds which come from China, they are killing
our future cops, teachers, servicemembers, and welders at numbers not
seen since World War II, to the tune of 300 Americans every day.
They aspire to control the entire South China Sea, the maritime
highway for one-third of the world's commerce. If they shut that down,
imagine what happens to prices here at home and indeed world trade.
With a jealous eye on Taiwan, they are watching our every move to
understand how the U.S. responds, or more importantly doesn't respond,
to unprovoked attacks on our allies.
This bill counters those threats in a sensible way, and that is why I
am proud to support it.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentleman from Texas.
Mr. ELLZEY. Mr. Chair, it contains important investments that I
supported in satellite technology, advanced manufacturing, autonomous
air and surface vehicles, tankers and fighting aircraft, cutting-edge
software, and advanced projectiles.
[[Page H4357]]
I am proud of the work of the Appropriations Committee. Through this
bill, we will maintain our edge and we will win, if necessary.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I yield 6 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Connecticut (Ms. DeLauro), the distinguished ranking member of the
Appropriations Committee, who is a great mentor.
Ms. DeLAURO. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to the Republican
majority's Defense appropriations bill.
First, I would also like to thank the majority and minority staff,
particularly Jennifer Chartrand and Jason Gray for their efforts, and I
extend my deep thanks to Chairman Calvert and Ranking Member McCollum
for their work on this bill. Unfortunately, I cannot support this bill
at this time.
With this bill, Congress has the unique and solemn responsibility of
appropriating the funds necessary to defend and to protect our Nation.
I come from a defense-dependent State. I understand the importance of
making investments and the kinds of investments we make in this bill,
but this bill still does not advance our national defense capabilities.
There is a path laid out for us to responsibly strengthen America's
national security and support our armed servicemembers. Instead, under
the majority's partisan process, we are considering a bill that
promotes chaos in Congress over prioritizing our national security,
which sows division instead of supporting our servicemembers' morale
and unity. This bill undermines democracy here and around the world,
and it disarms our military in the face of the climate crisis.
Especially in an election year, we should not consider legislation
that would neutralize the Department of Defense's ability to counter
disinformation campaigns when we know foreign actors and our
adversaries are seeking to meddle in our elections and our democratic
processes.
Why, after this Congress has repeatedly demonstrated broad bipartisan
support for Ukraine in its fight against Russian tyranny, are we
considering a bill that fails to fund the Ukraine Security Assistance
Initiative, rewarding Russia? In addition to fighting Russian
aggression, USAI helps Ukraine integrate with NATO and Western forces,
directly supporting our broader national security and defense
objectives.
Recklessly, this bill ignores our military leaders. Even under
President Trump, our military acknowledged and warned about the dangers
of climate change, what it poses to our national security, our military
assets, and our servicemembers around the world.
Secretary Mattis said in testimony to the Senate Armed Services
Committee: ``Climate change is impacting stability in areas of the
world where our troops are operating today. It is appropriate for the
Combatant Commands to incorporate drivers of instability that impact
the security environment in their areas into their planning.''
{time}  1330
We ought to be ensuring our military's readiness and adaptability in
the face of a changing climate and worsening disasters, not denying the
scientific and strategic reality of the threats that we face.
Finally, this bill contains a laundry list of partisan proposals that
divide Americans and divide the Congress, including provisions that
hurt women and LGBTQ+ servicemembers and obstruct diversity efforts.
It furthers Republicans' goal of making abortion illegal nationally
by making it harder for women in our military to obtain reproductive
care. No woman deserves to have her healthcare and family planning
decisions made by politicians, but especially those who have put their
lives on the line to protect Americans' rights and freedoms.
Every servicemember who wears our Nation's flag is a critical piece
of our national defense. American servicemembers come from all over the
country and the world. The sum of their skills, their determination,
their experiences, and their perspectives is the greatest asset our
military has.
Fostering an environment where every American, who would willingly
put their lives on the line to protect and serve this Nation, feels
that they are welcome and supported should not be controversial.
These policy riders do not belong in appropriations bills, and like
last year, we will defeat them, but it is disappointing that we are
going through this charade again just months after Republicans and
Democrats voted for the 2024 appropriations bills.
Looking across all 12 appropriations bills, the majority is failing
to meet the agreement signed into law. The Democrats will accept
nothing less than a 1 percent increase over 2024 in defense and
nondefense funding. That is what the law provides for.
I cannot support this bill. I urge my colleagues to focus on the end
goal of funding our government and preserving America's military
strength rather than pushing messaging bills that have no future.
Please join us at the table to protect our national security and our
military readiness. It is time to govern.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentlewoman from Missouri
(Mrs. Wagner) for the purpose of engaging in a colloquy.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Chairman, I thank the chairman very, very much for
engaging me in this colloquy and for his work on this very important
piece of legislation.
Last year's National Defense Authorization Act, which passed on an
overwhelmingly bipartisan basis, expressed serious concern that our
Nation's tactical fighter capacity is not sufficient to meet combatant
commander warfighting requirements. Yet, the Air Force is proposing the
premature closure of one of the United States' two major fighter
manufacturing lines, the F-15EX.
The F-15EX is a critical asset, particularly for the National Guard.
The National Guard's unfunded priorities list included a request for
additional EX production.
If this line shuts down in the fiscal year 2025, as proposed in the
President's budget, the U.S. will be down to a single tactical aviation
manufacturing line, and this is unacceptably risky.
Over 44 Members of Congress, Republicans and Democrats, supported the
additional funding to keep the important F-15EX program going.
I understand that top-line constraints this year present tough
challenges, Mr. Chairman, but this manufacturing line is in my home
State of Missouri, and it is a strategic asset and a national security
imperative.
May I have your commitment, sir, to work with me on the issue as the
process continues?
Mr. CALVERT. This committee recognizes the importance and the role of
the F-15EX. I thank the gentlewoman from Missouri for raising this
issue, and I look forward to working with her as we move forward with
this bill.
Mrs. WAGNER. I thank the chairman for agreeing to work with me on
this critically important issue and for his leadership on this
legislation and in so many other important things that come before this
body.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
Hawaii (Mr. Case).
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chairman, I rise in opposition to this measure as
currently drafted. I do so with true regret because hidden inside all
of the rhetoric and surplusage of this measure as drafted is, in fact,
the foundation of a solid and responsible bill to fund our national
defense as our chair and ranking member have both highlighted.
This is very regrettable overall since our national defense funding
measure has largely escaped these diversions and focused on national
defense. However, instead, we have before us today, in reality, a
proposal that is crippled by avoidance of inconvenient realities,
sacrifice of long-term goals for short-term expediency, pandering to
extreme viewpoints, and to my friend and colleague, the chair's
comments in opening statements, too narrow, I believe, a definition of
warfighting and military readiness.
Especially telling in all of this is that in virtually all of these
categories, our military disagrees with the deletions, with the cuts,
and with the initiatives.
Our military has a broader view. Our military, I believe, does have
the proper perspective on the panoply of efforts that are required for
true warfighting and military readiness.
[[Page H4358]]
There are many, many examples. We are going to hear about them. We
already have. We are debating them in amendments, but I want to
highlight two that are perhaps small in the big picture but that I
think illustrate exactly what the issue is that we face with this
particular measure.
First of all, I would highlight environmental remediation. Our
military is, obviously, out there in our country and in our world, and
their activities have consequences to our environment. They are charged
with avoiding those consequences and with remediating where there are
consequences. Yet, this particular bill would slash the environmental
remediation and restoration activities budget, which is a small part in
the big picture of the Defense Department's budget, by somewhere around
10 percent. This is of great concern to all of us because this is part
of warfighting and military readiness.
I would just cite a small example of this to make the point. In my
home State of Hawaii, a major center of our military activities on the
island of Maui, on the top of Mount Haleakala, the largest mountain,
there is an effort by the U.S. Space Force to build seven small
telescopes that are critical to the national defense, as anybody who
knows this knows. In the vicinity is an Air Force facility at which
there was a fuel spill. That fuel spill is being remediated by the Air
Force right now. It is critical. The Air Force is committed to
remediating it. It obviously needs the funding to do so.
Whether the military, through the Air Force, does, in fact, remediate
fully, fairly, and completely is a major issue to the community in
whether they will support critically important Space Force telescopes.
There is, obviously, a direct line in terms of the efforts to remediate
to a national security interest, which I think we would all agree is
truly in the range of military readiness.
Another small example is the Readiness and Environmental Protection
Integration program, or REPI, which includes the acquisition of real
property interest in land from willing landowners to prevent
development and encroachment around our military facilities. It
fulfills the military's own desire to protect native habitat and
improve our military installation resilience to climate change and
extreme weather.
This program is also the subject of the budget cutting knife under
this program. The military wants REPI. They realize the benefit of REPI
to their military readiness, to their warfighting capability. These,
again, are very, very small examples, but I hope that they illustrate
the basic point that when we take a look at the larger Defense budget,
if we allow ourselves to get distracted, to exercise on denial
tendencies, to focus on the short term without contemplating the long
term, by taking extreme viewpoints into these areas, and, again, by
constructing too narrow a definition of warfighting and military
readiness, then we are going to miss the mark on this Defense budget.
Mr. Chair, I believe in this draft we, unfortunately, have.
Luckily we are early in this process. I think there is plenty of room
for us to debate and discuss these issues. I very much hope that we
correct these deficiencies and that we produce a bill, as I hope and
believe we have in the past and will again, that I can support.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Louisiana (Mr. Higgins).
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the work that
has been done on the underlying bill.
I rise on behalf of my amendment No. 60 to H.R. 8774, the Department
of Defense Appropriations Act for 2025.
My amendment specifies that the United States Navy shall use $19.44
million to procure 40-foot patrol boats. The Navy has a stated need for
these new boats to replace the aging feet, the old 38-foot boats. In
today's battle environment, it is essential that we have the most
advanced technology and capabilities.
It is well understood the 40-foot patrol boats are essential to the
Navy's mission, and the Navy requires the shipyards by contract to be
capable of producing one boat every 45 days in order to sustain maximum
efficiency. Yet, the Navy does not fully fund the program through the
President's budget request year after year to ensure this objective is
accomplished.
My amendment does not increase the actual cost of the 40-foot patrol
boat program. Instead, the amendment simply specifies within
appropriations the funds needed for the efficiency of the Navy and the
shipyards working together to build these vessels.
Overall efficiency requires that the rate of funding match the rate
of vessel production, and any pause in the delivery of funding leads to
a loss of the existing workforce, the supply chain, the vendors, the
materials, et cetera. Coordinating funding with production is
essential, and we should support this commonsense funding delivery
adjustment which is essentially what my amendment calls for.
It is critical that we ensure our Armed Forces have the vessels and
technology required to secure America. I will always advocate for a
strong maritime industry that bolsters our national security and
supports thousands of American jobs.
I am grateful for this opportunity to speak on behalf of my
amendment, Mr. Chairman.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr.  Mike Garcia), who is a member of the Defense
Subcommittee.
Mr. MIKE GARCIA of California. Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman of the
subcommittee,   Ken Calvert, who has been a true leader on the bill.
Mr. Chair, I rise in support of the bill.
The minority will talk about environmentalism and social justice
messaging, but the reality is that this bill goes beyond those. We must
remember that the goal of the military is to deter a war, and if unable
to deter a war, then to win a war.
Today, especially, the pacing threat is China.
This bill does just that. It helps us not only accelerate programs
but keep pace with China in a budget constrained environment of only
$833 billion. We are trying to gain efficiency so that it behaves like
$1 trillion.
It supports all the weapons systems from high to low, B-21s, as well
as supporting and protecting U-2 classified programs.
In my opinion, the most important thing is a 20 percent pay raise for
E-1s through E-4s.
I strongly urge support of the Defense appropriations bill, and I
applaud Chairman Calvert's leadership on this issue as we try to make
the world a safer place.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, this bill is a good bill. It moves the
country in the right direction. I encourage all our Members to support
the bill.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from Iowa (Mr. Nunn).
{time}  1345
Mr. NUNN of Iowa. Mr. Chair, I thank my colleagues for their work on
H.R. 8774.
Mr. Chairman, as a counterintelligence officer who operated against
China, I have witnessed firsthand how the Chinese Communist Party can
threaten our national security. Therefore, this bill is critical to our
Nation's security.
The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2025, will fight
against Communist China by strengthening our military deterrence
efforts and investing in the next generation of military technology,
innovation, and our workforce.
I thank Chairman Calvert for including my amendment to increase
research and development of cutting-edge drone technology. Wireless
power transfer for U.S.-made drones allows for providing endurance,
long-range capabilities, and dual-use technology to help protect
America both at home and abroad. This includes our border security,
counter-drug operations, extensive terrain mapping in the case of
natural disasters, even air-to-air refueling, and, certainly, extending
communications networks in contested environments. Most importantly,
they are highly effective, low-cost capabilities with a high-yield
impact when it comes to kinetic conflict.
I appreciate the work and leadership of the chairman and the work of
the committee, and I urge Members on both sides of the aisle to
continue to
[[Page H4359]]
support our advance in drone technology made domestically, independent
of China, for a safer, stronger America.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, may I inquire if the majority has additional
speakers.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I have no additional speakers.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, the fiscal year 2024 appropriations process
was plagued by continuing resolutions and a wasted 5 months of this
fiscal year.
I know Chairman Cole and Chairman Calvert agree with me that we live
in an increasingly dangerous world, and I look forward to working with
Chairman Calvert to improve this bill.
We know how this process ends. The partisan riders will come out,
just like they did in 2024. We have a blueprint on how to write these
bills, and I am ready to get this appropriations process back on track
and not waste time as we did last year.
Let's give our servicemembers and their families the bipartisan
Defense bill they deserve.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill at this time, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this bill. I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania). All time for general
debate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be considered for amendment
under the 5-minute rule.
An amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee print 118-40 shall be considered as adopted and the
bill, as amended, shall be considered as an original bill for the
purpose of further amendment under the 5-minute rule and shall be
considered as read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as follows:
H.R. 8774
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the
following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2025, for military functions
administered by the Department of Defense and for other
purposes, namely:
TITLE I
MILITARY PERSONNEL
Military Personnel, Army
For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence,
interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station
travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational
movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between
permanent duty stations, for members of the Army on active
duty (except members of reserve components provided for
elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of the
Reserve Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant
to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C.
402 note), and to the Department of Defense Military
Retirement Fund, $51,485,904,000.
Military Personnel, Navy
For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence,
interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station
travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational
movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between
permanent duty stations, for members of the Navy on active
duty (except members of the Reserve provided for elsewhere),
midshipmen, and aviation cadets; for members of the Reserve
Officers' Training Corps; and for payments pursuant to
section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402
note), and to the Department of Defense Military Retirement
Fund, $39,103,278,000.
Military Personnel, Marine Corps
For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence,
interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station
travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational
movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between
permanent duty stations, for members of the Marine Corps on
active duty (except members of the Reserve provided for
elsewhere); and for payments pursuant to section 156 of
Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to
the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund,
$16,261,321,000.
Military Personnel, Air Force
For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence,
interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station
travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational
movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between
permanent duty stations, for members of the Air Force on
active duty (except members of reserve components provided
for elsewhere), cadets, and aviation cadets; for members of
the Reserve Officers' Training Corps; and for payments
pursuant to section 156 of Public Law 97-377, as amended (42
U.S.C. 402 note), and to the Department of Defense Military
Retirement Fund, $37,376,591,000.
Military Personnel, Space Force
For pay, allowances, individual clothing, subsistence,
interest on deposits, gratuities, permanent change of station
travel (including all expenses thereof for organizational
movements), and expenses of temporary duty travel between
permanent duty stations, for members of the Space Force on
active duty and cadets; for members of the Reserve Officers'
Training Corps; and for payments pursuant to section 156 of
Public Law 97-377, as amended (42 U.S.C. 402 note), and to
the Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund,
$1,308,675,000.
Reserve Personnel, Army
For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities,
travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Army
Reserve on active duty under sections 10211, 10302, and 7038
of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on active
duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code,
in connection with performing duty specified in section
12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing
reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent
duty or other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131
of title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund,
$5,584,691,000.
Reserve Personnel, Navy
For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities,
travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Navy
Reserve on active duty under section 10211 of title 10,
United States Code, or while serving on active duty under
section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, in
connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a)
of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty, and
expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United
States Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense
Military Retirement Fund, $2,607,677,000.
Reserve Personnel, Marine Corps
For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities,
travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Marine
Corps Reserve on active duty under section 10211 of title 10,
United States Code, or while serving on active duty under
section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code, in
connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a)
of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing reserve
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty, and
for members of the Marine Corps platoon leaders class, and
expenses authorized by section 16131 of title 10, United
States Code; and for payments to the Department of Defense
Military Retirement Fund, $948,708,000.
Reserve Personnel, Air Force
For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities,
travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Air Force
Reserve on active duty under sections 10211, 10305, and 9038
of title 10, United States Code, or while serving on active
duty under section 12301(d) of title 10, United States Code,
in connection with performing duty specified in section
12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing
reserve training, or while performing drills or equivalent
duty or other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131
of title 10, United States Code; and for payments to the
Department of Defense Military Retirement Fund,
$2,619,717,000.
National Guard Personnel, Army
For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities,
travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Army
National Guard while on duty under sections 10211, 10302, or
12402 of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, United States
Code, or while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of
title 10 or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code,
in connection with performing duty specified in section
12310(a) of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or
other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title
10, United States Code; and for payments to the Department of
Defense Military Retirement Fund, $9,975,860,000.
National Guard Personnel, Air Force
For pay, allowances, clothing, subsistence, gratuities,
travel, and related expenses for personnel of the Air
National Guard on duty under sections 10211, 10305, or 12402
of title 10 or section 708 of title 32, United States Code,
or while serving on duty under section 12301(d) of title 10
or section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, in
connection with performing duty specified in section 12310(a)
of title 10, United States Code, or while undergoing
training, or while performing drills or equivalent duty or
other duty, and expenses authorized by section 16131 of title
10, United States Code; and for payments to the Department of
Defense Military Retirement Fund, $5,383,100,000.
TITLE II
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
Operation and Maintenance, Army
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the
operation and maintenance of the Army, as authorized by law,
$59,178,129,000:  Provided, That not to exceed $7,000,000 may
be used for emergencies and extraordinary expenses, to be
expended upon the approval or authority of the Secretary of
the Army, and payments may be made upon the Secretary's
certificate of necessity for confidential military purposes.
Operation and Maintenance, Navy
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the
operation and maintenance of the Navy and the Marine Corps,
as authorized by law, $74,754,688,000:  Provided, That not to
exceed $7,000,000 may be used for emergencies and
extraordinary expenses, to be expended upon the approval or
authority of the Secretary of the Navy, and payments may be
made upon the Secretary's certificate of necessity for
confidential military purposes.
[[Page H4360]]
Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the
operation and maintenance of the Marine Corps, as authorized
by law, $10,454,504,000.
Operation and Maintenance, Air Force
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the
operation and maintenance of the Air Force, as authorized by
law, $64,560,558,000:  Provided, That not to exceed
$7,000,000 may be used for emergencies and extraordinary
expenses, to be expended upon the approval or authority of
the Secretary of the Air Force, and payments may be made upon
the Secretary's certificate of necessity for confidential
military purposes.
Operation and Maintenance, Space Force
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the
operation and maintenance of the Space Force, as authorized
by law, $5,146,272,000.
Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide
(including transfer of funds)
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the
operation and maintenance of activities and agencies of the
Department of Defense (other than the military departments),
as authorized by law, $53,074,990,000:  Provided, That not
more than $2,981,000 may be used for the Combatant Commander
Initiative Fund authorized under section 166a of title 10,
United States Code:  Provided further, That not to exceed
$10,000,000 may be used for emergencies and extraordinary
expenses, to be expended upon the approval or authority of
the Secretary of Defense, and payments may be made upon the
Secretary's certificate of necessity for confidential
military purposes:  Provided further, That of the funds
provided under this heading, not less than $22,738,000 shall
be made available for the Procurement Technical Assistance
Cooperative Agreement Program, of which not less than
$5,000,000 shall be available for centers with eligible
entities defined in 10 U.S.C. 4951(1)(D):  Provided further,
That none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made
available by this Act may be used to plan or implement the
consolidation of a budget or appropriations liaison office of
the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the office of the
Secretary of a military department, or the service
headquarters of one of the Armed Forces into a legislative
affairs or legislative liaison office:  Provided further,
That of the funds provided under this heading, $3,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2026, shall be available
only for expenses relating to certain classified activities:
Provided further, That of the funds provided under this
heading, $26,777,000, to remain available until expended,
shall be available only for expenses relating to certain
classified activities, and may be transferred as necessary by
the Secretary of Defense to operation and maintenance
appropriations or research, development, test and evaluation
appropriations, to be merged with and to be available for the
same time period as the appropriations to which transferred:
Provided further, That any ceiling on the investment item
unit cost of items that may be purchased with operation and
maintenance funds shall not apply to the funds described in
the preceding proviso:  Provided further, That of the funds
provided under this heading, $2,107,432,000, of which
$1,423,630,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026,
shall be available to provide support and assistance to
foreign security forces or other groups or individuals to
conduct, support or facilitate counterterrorism, crisis
response, or other Department of Defense security cooperation
programs:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense
shall provide quarterly reports to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate
on the use and status of funds made available in this
paragraph:  Provided further, That the transfer authority
provided under this heading is in addition to any other
transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.
Counter-ISIS Train and Equip Fund
For the ``Counter-Islamic State of Iraq and Syria Train and
Equip Fund'', $528,699,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2026:  Provided, That such funds shall be
available to the Secretary of Defense in coordination with
the Secretary of State, to provide assistance, including
training; equipment; logistics support, supplies, and
services; stipends; infrastructure repair and renovation;
construction for facility fortification and humane treatment;
and sustainment, to foreign security forces, irregular
forces, groups, or individuals participating, or preparing to
participate in activities to counter the Islamic State of
Iraq and Syria, and their affiliated or associated groups:
Provided further, That amounts made available under this
heading shall be available to provide assistance only for
activities in a country designated by the Secretary of
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, as
having a security mission to counter the Islamic State of
Iraq and Syria, and following written notification to the
congressional defense committees of such designation:
Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall ensure
that prior to providing assistance to elements of any forces
or individuals, such elements or individuals are
appropriately vetted, including at a minimum, assessing such
elements for associations with terrorist groups or groups
associated with the Government of Iran; and receiving
commitments from such elements to promote respect for human
rights and the rule of law:  Provided further, That the
Secretary of Defense shall, not fewer than 15 days prior to
obligating from this appropriation account, notify the
congressional defense committees in writing of the details of
any such obligation:  Provided further, That the Secretary of
Defense may accept and retain contributions, including
assistance in-kind, from foreign governments, including the
Government of Iraq and other entities, to carry out
assistance authorized under this heading:  Provided further,
That contributions of funds for the purposes provided herein
from any foreign government or other entity may be credited
to this Fund, to remain available until expended, and used
for such purposes:  Provided further, That the Secretary of
Defense shall prioritize such contributions when providing
any assistance for construction for facility fortification:
Provided further, That the United States may accept equipment
procured using funds provided under this heading that was
transferred to security forces, irregular forces, or groups
participating, or preparing to participate in activities to
counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria and returned by
such forces or groups to the United States, and such
equipment may be treated as stocks of the Department of
Defense upon written notification to the congressional
defense committees:  Provided further, That equipment
procured using funds provided under this heading and not yet
transferred to security forces, irregular forces, or groups
participating, or preparing to participate in activities to
counter the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria may be treated as
stocks of the Department of Defense when determined by the
Secretary to no longer be required for transfer to such
forces or groups and upon written notification to the
congressional defense committees:  Provided further, That
stipend support for the Kurdish Peshmerga may only be reduced
commensurate with support provided from other sources,
including Iraqi national funds:  Provided further, That none
of the funds made available under this heading may be used to
procure or transfer man-portable air defense systems:
Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense shall provide
quarterly reports to the congressional defense committees on
the use of funds provided under this heading, including, but
not limited to, the number of individuals trained, the nature
and scope of support and sustainment provided to each group
or individual, the area of operations for each group, and the
contributions of other countries, groups, or individuals.
Operation and Maintenance, Army Reserve
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the
operation and maintenance, including training, organization,
and administration, of the Army Reserve; repair of facilities
and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and
transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of
services, supplies, and equipment; and communications,
$3,279,177,000.
Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the
operation and maintenance, including training, organization,
and administration, of the Navy Reserve; repair of facilities
and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and
transportation; care of the dead; recruiting; procurement of
services, supplies, and equipment; and communications,
$1,333,993,000.
Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps Reserve
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the
operation and maintenance, including training, organization,
and administration, of the Marine Corps Reserve; repair of
facilities and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles;
travel and transportation; care of the dead; recruiting;
procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and
communications, $338,080,000.
Operation and Maintenance, Air Force Reserve
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the
operation and maintenance, including training, organization,
and administration, of the Air Force Reserve; repair of
facilities and equipment; hire of passenger motor vehicles;
travel and transportation; care of the dead; recruiting;
procurement of services, supplies, and equipment; and
communications, $4,062,711,000.
Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard
For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the
Army National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment
and related expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance,
operation, and repairs to structures and facilities; hire of
passenger motor vehicles; personnel services in the National
Guard Bureau; travel expenses (other than mileage), as
authorized by law for Army personnel on active duty, for Army
National Guard division, regimental, and battalion commanders
while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard
Bureau regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief,
National Guard Bureau; supplying and equipping the Army
National Guard as authorized by law; and expenses of repair,
modification, maintenance, and issue of supplies and
equipment (including aircraft), $8,591,745,000.
Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard
For expenses of training, organizing, and administering the
Air National Guard, including medical and hospital treatment
and related expenses in non-Federal hospitals; maintenance,
operation, and repairs to structures and facilities;
transportation of things, hire of passenger motor vehicles;
supplying and equipping the Air National Guard, as authorized
by law; expenses for repair, modification, maintenance, and
issue of supplies and equipment, including those furnished
from stocks under the control of agencies of the Department
of Defense; travel expenses (other than mileage) on the same
basis as authorized by law for Air National Guard personnel
on active Federal duty, for Air National Guard commanders
while inspecting units in compliance with National Guard
Bureau regulations when specifically authorized by the Chief,
National Guard Bureau, $7,270,145,000.
[[Page H4361]]
United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces
For salaries and expenses necessary for the United States
Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, $21,035,000, of which
not to exceed $10,000 may be used for official representation
purposes.
Environmental Restoration, Army
(including transfer of funds)
For the Department of the Army, $268,069,000, to remain
available until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of
the Army shall, upon determining that such funds are required
for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of
the Department of the Army, or for similar purposes, transfer
the funds made available by this appropriation to other
appropriations made available to the Department of the Army,
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes
and for the same time period as the appropriations to which
transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination
that all or part of the funds transferred from this
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided
herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this
appropriation, to be merged with and to be available for the
same purposes and for the same time period as this
appropriation: Provided further, That amounts transferred
back under the preceding proviso, and amounts credited to
appropriations made under this heading pursuant to section
2703(e) of title 10, United States Code, are available until
transferred under conditions set forth in the preceding
provisos:  Provided further, That the transfer authority
provided under this heading is in addition to any other
transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.
Environmental Restoration, Navy
(including transfer of funds)
For the Department of the Navy, $343,591,000, to remain
available until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of
the Navy shall, upon determining that such funds are required
for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of
the Department of the Navy, or for similar purposes, transfer
the funds made available by this appropriation to other
appropriations made available to the Department of the Navy,
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes
and for the same time period as the appropriations to which
transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination
that all or part of the funds transferred from this
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided
herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this
appropriation, to be merged with and to be available for the
same purposes and for the same time period as this
appropriation: Provided further, That amounts transferred
back under the preceding proviso, and amounts credited to
appropriations made under this heading pursuant to section
2703(e) of title 10, United States Code, are available until
transferred under conditions set forth in the preceding
provisos:  Provided further, That the transfer authority
provided under this heading is in addition to any other
transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.
Environmental Restoration, Air Force
(including transfer of funds)
For the Department of the Air Force, $320,256,000, to
remain available until transferred:  Provided, That the
Secretary of the Air Force shall, upon determining that such
funds are required for environmental restoration, reduction
and recycling of hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings
and debris of the Department of the Air Force, or for similar
purposes, transfer the funds made available by this
appropriation to other appropriations made available to the
Department of the Air Force, to be merged with and to be
available for the same purposes and for the same time period
as the appropriations to which transferred:  Provided
further, That upon a determination that all or part of the
funds transferred from this appropriation are not necessary
for the purposes provided herein, such amounts may be
transferred back to this appropriation, to be merged with and
to be available for the same purposes and for the same time
period as this appropriation: Provided further, That amounts
transferred back under the preceding proviso, and amounts
credited to appropriations made under this heading pursuant
to section 2703(e) of title 10, United States Code, are
available until transferred under conditions set forth in the
preceding provisos:  Provided further, That the transfer
authority provided under this heading is in addition to any
other transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.
Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide
(including transfer of funds)
For the Department of Defense, $8,800,000, to remain
available until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of
Defense shall, upon determining that such funds are required
for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris of
the Department of Defense, or for similar purposes, transfer
the funds made available by this appropriation to other
appropriations made available to the Department of Defense,
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes
and for the same time period as the appropriations to which
transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination
that all or part of the funds transferred from this
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided
herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this
appropriation, to be merged with and to be available for the
same purposes and for the same time period as this
appropriation: Provided further, That amounts transferred
back under the preceding proviso, and amounts credited to
appropriations made under this heading pursuant to section
2703(e) of title 10, United States Code, are available until
transferred under conditions set forth in the preceding
provisos:  Provided further, That the transfer authority
provided under this heading is in addition to any other
transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.
Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense Sites
(including transfer of funds)
For the Department of the Army, $234,475,000, to remain
available until transferred:  Provided, That the Secretary of
the Army shall, upon determining that such funds are required
for environmental restoration, reduction and recycling of
hazardous waste, removal of unsafe buildings and debris at
sites formerly used by the Department of Defense, transfer
the funds made available by this appropriation to other
appropriations made available to the Department of the Army,
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes
and for the same time period as the appropriations to which
transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination
that all or part of the funds transferred from this
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided
herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this
appropriation, to be merged with and to be available for the
same purposes and for the same time period as this
appropriation: Provided further, That amounts transferred
back under the preceding proviso, and amounts credited to
appropriations made under this heading pursuant to section
2703(e) of title 10, United States Code, are available until
transferred under conditions set forth in the preceding
provisos:  Provided further, That the transfer authority
provided under this heading is in addition to any other
transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act.
Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid
For expenses relating to the Overseas Humanitarian,
Disaster, and Civic Aid programs of the Department of Defense
(consisting of the programs provided under sections 401, 402,
404, 407, 2557, and 2561 of title 10, United States Code),
$115,335,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026.
Cooperative Threat Reduction Account
For assistance, including assistance provided by contract
or by grants, under programs and activities of the Department
of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program authorized
under the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction
Act, $246,876,000, to remain available until September 30,
2027.
Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Account
For the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce
Development Account, $56,176,000:  Provided, That no other
amounts may be otherwise credited or transferred to the
Account, or deposited into the Account, in fiscal year 2025
pursuant to section 1705(d) of title 10, United States Code.
TITLE III
PROCUREMENT
Aircraft Procurement, Army
For construction, procurement, production, modification,
and modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance,
ground handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories
therefor; specialized equipment and training devices;
expansion of public and private plants, including the land
necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title;
and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances,
and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant
and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and
other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes,
$3,518,727,000, to remain available for obligation until
September 30, 2027.
Missile Procurement, Army
For construction, procurement, production, modification,
and modernization of missiles, equipment, including ordnance,
ground handling equipment, spare parts, and accessories
therefor; specialized equipment and training devices;
expansion of public and private plants, including the land
necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title;
and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances,
and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant
and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and
other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes,
$5,175,541,000, to remain available for obligation until
September 30, 2027.
Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army
For construction, procurement, production, and modification
of weapons and tracked combat vehicles, equipment, including
ordnance, spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and
private plants, including the land necessary therefor, for
the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein,
may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to
approval of title; and procurement and installation of
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-
owned equipment layaway; and other expenses necessary for the
foregoing purposes, $3,624,159,000, to remain available for
obligation until September 30, 2027.
[[Page H4362]]
Procurement of Ammunition, Army
For construction, procurement, production, and modification
of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and
private plants, including ammunition facilities, authorized
by section 2854 of title 10, United States Code, and the land
necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title;
and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances,
and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant
and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and
other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes,
$2,675,456,000, to remain available for obligation until
September 30, 2027.
Other Procurement, Army
For construction, procurement, production, and modification
of vehicles, including tactical, support, and non-tracked
combat vehicles; the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for
replacement only; communications and electronic equipment;
other support equipment; spare parts, ordnance, and
accessories therefor; specialized equipment and training
devices; expansion of public and private plants, including
the land necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title;
and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances,
and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant
and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and
other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes,
$8,460,305,000, to remain available for obligation until
September 30, 2027.
Aircraft Procurement, Navy
For construction, procurement, production, modification,
and modernization of aircraft, equipment, including ordnance,
spare parts, and accessories therefor; specialized equipment;
expansion of public and private plants, including the land
necessary therefor, and such lands and interests therein, may
be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to
approval of title; and procurement and installation of
equipment, appliances, and machine tools in public and
private plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-
owned equipment layaway, $17,073,401,000, to remain available
for obligation until September 30, 2027.
Weapons Procurement, Navy
For construction, procurement, production, modification,
and modernization of missiles, torpedoes, other weapons, and
related support equipment including spare parts, and
accessories therefor; expansion of public and private plants,
including the land necessary therefor, and such lands and
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title; and
procurement and installation of equipment, appliances, and
machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant and
Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway,
$6,049,095,000, to remain available for obligation until
September 30, 2027.
Procurement of Ammunition, Navy and Marine Corps
For construction, procurement, production, and modification
of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and
private plants, including ammunition facilities, authorized
by section 2854 of title 10, United States Code, and the land
necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title;
and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances,
and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant
and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and
other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes,
$1,599,221,000, to remain available for obligation until
September 30, 2027.
Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy
For expenses necessary for the construction, acquisition,
or conversion of vessels as authorized by law, including
armor and armament thereof, plant equipment, appliances, and
machine tools and installation thereof in public and private
plants; reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned
equipment layaway; procurement of critical, long lead time
components and designs for vessels to be constructed or
converted in the future; and expansion of public and private
plants, including land necessary therefor, and such lands and
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title, as follows:
Columbia Class Submarine, $3,346,235,000;
Columbia Class Submarine (AP), $6,215,939,000;
Carrier Replacement Program (CVN-80), $1,123,124,000;
Carrier Replacement Program (CVN-81), 674,930,000;
Virginia Class Submarine, $3,615,904,000;
Virginia Class Submarine (AP), $3,720,303,000;
CVN Refueling Overhauls, $1,061,143,000;
DDG-1000 Program, $61,100,000;
DDG-51 Destroyer, $6,409,190,000;
DDG-51 Destroyer (AP), $41,724,000;
LPD Flight II, $1,561,963,000;
LHA Replacement (AP), $61,118,000;
TAO Fleet Oiler (AP), $334,461,000;
Towing, Salvage, and Rescue Ship, $60,000,000;
Medium Landing Ship, $29,668,000;
Ship to Shore Connector, $417,000,000;
Service Craft, $41,426,000;
Auxiliary Personnel Lighter, $76,168,000;
LCAC SLEP, $45,087,000;
Auxiliary Vessels, $204,939,000;
For outfitting, post delivery, conversions, and first
destination transportation, $585,967,000; and
Completion of Prior Year Shipbuilding Programs,
$1,930,024,000.
In all: $31,617,413,000, to remain available for obligation
until September 30, 2029:  Provided, That additional
obligations may be incurred after September 30, 2029, for
engineering services, tests, evaluations, and other such
budgeted work that must be performed in the final stage of
ship construction:  Provided further, That none of the funds
provided under this heading for the construction or
conversion of any naval vessel to be constructed in shipyards
in the United States shall be expended in foreign facilities
for the construction of major components of such vessel:
Provided further, That none of the funds provided under this
heading shall be used for the construction of any naval
vessel in foreign shipyards:  Provided further, That funds
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act for
Columbia Class Submarine (AP) may be available for the
purposes authorized by subsections (f), (g), (h) or (i) of
section 2218a of title 10, United States Code, only in
accordance with the provisions of the applicable subsection.
Other Procurement, Navy
For procurement, production, and modernization of support
equipment and materials not otherwise provided for, Navy
ordnance (except ordnance for new aircraft, new ships, and
ships authorized for conversion); the purchase of passenger
motor vehicles for replacement only; expansion of public and
private plants, including the land necessary therefor, and
such lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title;
and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances,
and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant
and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway,
$15,510,478,000, to remain available for obligation until
September 30, 2027:  Provided, That such funds are also
available for the maintenance, repair, and modernization of
ships under a pilot program established for such purposes.
Procurement, Marine Corps
For expenses necessary for the procurement, manufacture,
and modification of missiles, armament, military equipment,
spare parts, and accessories therefor; plant equipment,
appliances, and machine tools, and installation thereof in
public and private plants; reserve plant and Government and
contractor-owned equipment layaway; vehicles for the Marine
Corps, including the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for
replacement only; and expansion of public and private plants,
including land necessary therefor, and such lands and
interests therein, may be acquired, and construction
prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title,
$3,804,948,000, to remain available for obligation until
September 30, 2027.
Aircraft Procurement, Air Force
For construction, procurement, and modification of aircraft
and equipment, including armor and armament, specialized
ground handling equipment, and training devices, spare parts,
and accessories therefor; specialized equipment; expansion of
public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and
installation thereof in such plants, erection of structures,
and acquisition of land, for the foregoing purposes, and such
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title;
reserve plant and Government and contractor-owned equipment
layaway; and other expenses necessary for the foregoing
purposes including rents and transportation of things,
$20,842,652,000, to remain available for obligation until
September 30, 2027.
Missile Procurement, Air Force
For construction, procurement, and modification of
missiles, rockets, and related equipment, including spare
parts and accessories therefor; ground handling equipment,
and training devices; expansion of public and private plants,
Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such
plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for
the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein,
may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to
approval of title; reserve plant and Government and
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses
necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and
transportation of things, $4,016,939,000, to remain available
for obligation until September 30, 2027.
Procurement of Ammunition, Air Force
For construction, procurement, production, and modification
of ammunition, and accessories therefor; specialized
equipment and training devices; expansion of public and
private plants, including ammunition facilities, authorized
by section 2854 of title 10, United States Code, and the land
necessary therefor, for the foregoing purposes, and such
lands and interests therein, may be acquired, and
construction prosecuted thereon prior to approval of title;
and procurement and installation of equipment, appliances,
and machine tools in public and private plants; reserve plant
and Government and contractor-owned equipment layaway; and
other expenses necessary for the foregoing purposes,
$629,930,000, to remain available for obligation until
September 30, 2027.
Other Procurement, Air Force
For procurement and modification of equipment (including
ground guidance and electronic control equipment, and ground
electronic and communication equipment), and supplies,
materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise provided
for; the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for replacement
only; lease of passenger motor vehicles; and expansion of
public and private plants, Government-owned equipment and
installation thereof in such plants, erection of
[[Page H4363]]
structures, and acquisition of land, for the foregoing
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon, prior to
approval of title; reserve plant and Government and
contractor-owned equipment layaway, $29,865,521,000, to
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2027.
Procurement, Space Force
For construction, procurement, and modification of
spacecraft, rockets, and related equipment, including spare
parts and accessories therefor; ground handling equipment,
and training devices; expansion of public and private plants,
Government-owned equipment and installation thereof in such
plants, erection of structures, and acquisition of land, for
the foregoing purposes, and such lands and interests therein,
may be acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to
approval of title; reserve plant and Government and
contractor-owned equipment layaway; and other expenses
necessary for the foregoing purposes including rents and
transportation of things, $3,933,719,000, to remain available
for obligation until September 30, 2027.
Procurement, Defense-Wide
For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department
of Defense (other than the military departments) necessary
for procurement, production, and modification of equipment,
supplies, materials, and spare parts therefor, not otherwise
provided for; the purchase of passenger motor vehicles for
replacement only; expansion of public and private plants,
equipment, and installation thereof in such plants, erection
of structures, and acquisition of land for the foregoing
purposes, and such lands and interests therein, may be
acquired, and construction prosecuted thereon prior to
approval of title; reserve plant and Government and
contractor-owned equipment layaway, $5,691,355,000, to remain
available for obligation until September 30, 2027.
Defense Production Act Purchases
For activities by the Department of Defense pursuant to
sections 108, 301, 302, and 303 of the Defense Production Act
of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 4518, 4531, 4532, and 4533), $446,377,000,
to remain available for obligation until expended, which
shall be obligated and expended by the Secretary of Defense
as if delegated the necessary authorities conferred by the
Defense Production Act of 1950.
National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account
For procurement of rotary-wing aircraft; combat, tactical
and support vehicles; other weapons; and other procurement
items for the reserve components of the Armed Forces,
$800,000,000, to remain available for obligation until
September 30, 2027:  Provided, That the Chiefs of National
Guard and Reserve components shall, not later than 30 days
after enactment of this Act, individually submit to the
congressional defense committees the modernization priority
assessment for their respective National Guard or Reserve
component:  Provided further, That none of the funds made
available by this paragraph may be used to procure manned
fixed wing aircraft, or procure or modify missiles,
munitions, or ammunition.
TITLE IV
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army
For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific
research, development, test and evaluation, including
maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of
facilities and equipment, $15,335,703,000, to remain
available for obligation until September 30, 2026.
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy
For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific
research, development, test and evaluation, including
maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of
facilities and equipment, $26,668,304,000, to remain
available for obligation until September 30, 2026:  Provided,
That funds appropriated in this paragraph which are available
for the V-22 may be used to meet unique operational
requirements of the Special Operations Forces.
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force
For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific
research, development, test and evaluation, including
maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of
facilities and equipment, $48,648,586,000, to remain
available for obligation until September 30, 2026.
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Space Force
For expenses necessary for basic and applied scientific
research, development, test and evaluation, including
maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and operation of
facilities and equipment, $18,279,469,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2026.
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide
For expenses of activities and agencies of the Department
of Defense (other than the military departments), necessary
for basic and applied scientific research, development, test
and evaluation; advanced research projects as may be
designated and determined by the Secretary of Defense,
pursuant to law; maintenance, rehabilitation, lease, and
operation of facilities and equipment, $36,742,144,000, to
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2026.
Operational Test and Evaluation, Defense
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the
independent activities of the Director, Operational Test and
Evaluation, in the direction and supervision of operational
test and evaluation, including initial operational test and
evaluation which is conducted prior to, and in support of,
production decisions; joint operational testing and
evaluation; and administrative expenses in connection
therewith, $348,709,000, to remain available for obligation
until September 30, 2026.
TITLE V
REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS
Defense Working Capital Funds
For the Defense Working Capital Funds, $1,712,921,000.
National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund
For the National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund,
$7,629,000, for activities pursuant to the Strategic and
Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98 et seq.).
TITLE VI
OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS
Defense Health Program
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, for medical and
health care programs of the Department of Defense as
authorized by law, $41,159,039,000; of which $38,521,736,000
shall be for operation and maintenance, of which not to
exceed one percent shall remain available for obligation
until September 30, 2026, and of which up to $20,299,477,000
may be available for contracts entered into under the TRICARE
program; of which $398,867,000, to remain available for
obligation until September 30, 2027, shall be for
procurement; and of which $2,238,436,000, to remain available
for obligation until September 30, 2026, shall be for
research, development, test and evaluation:  Provided, That
of the funds provided under this heading for research,
development, test and evaluation, not less than
$1,164,000,000 shall be made available to the Defense Health
Agency to carry out the congressionally directed medical
research programs:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding
any other provision of law, of the amount made available
under this heading for research, development, test and
evaluation, not less than $12,000,000 shall be available for
HIV prevention educational activities undertaken in
connection with United States military training, exercises,
and humanitarian assistance activities conducted primarily in
African nations:  Provided further, That the Secretary of
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees
quarterly reports on the current status of the electronic
health record program:  Provided further, That the
Comptroller General of the United States shall perform
quarterly performance reviews of the electronic health record
program.
Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense
For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary for the
destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal chemical
agents and munitions in accordance with the provisions of
section 1412 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act,
1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), $775,507,000, of which $20,745,000
shall be for operation and maintenance for the Chemical
Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program, consisting of
$13,945,000 for activities on military installations and
$6,800,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026, to
assist State and local governments; and of which
$754,762,000, to remain available until September 30, 2026,
shall be for research, development, test and evaluation and
shall only be for the Assembled Chemical Weapons Alternatives
program.
Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense
(including transfer of funds)
For drug interdiction and counter-drug activities of the
Department of Defense, for transfer to appropriations
available to the Department of Defense for military personnel
of the reserve components serving under the provisions of
title 10 and title 32, United States Code; for operation and
maintenance; for procurement; and for research, development,
test and evaluation, $1,143,269,000, of which $673,702,000
shall be for counter-narcotics support; $139,567,000 shall be
for the drug demand reduction program; $305,000,000 shall be
for the National Guard counter-drug program; and $25,000,000
shall be for the National Guard counter-drug schools program:
Provided, That the funds appropriated under this heading
shall be available for obligation for the same time period
and for the same purpose as the appropriation to which
transferred:  Provided further, That upon a determination
that all or part of the funds transferred from this
appropriation are not necessary for the purposes provided
herein, such amounts may be transferred back to this
appropriation:  Provided further, That the transfer authority
provided under this heading is in addition to any other
transfer authority provided elsewhere in this Act:  Provided
further, That funds appropriated under this heading may be
used to support a new start program or project only after
written prior notification to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the
Senate.
Office of the Inspector General
For expenses and activities of the Office of the Inspector
General in carrying out the provisions of the Inspector
General Act of 1978, $539,769,000, of which $536,533,000
shall be for operation and maintenance, of which not to
exceed $700,000 is available for emergencies and
extraordinary expenses to be expended upon the approval or
authority of the Inspector General, and payments may be made
upon the Inspector
[[Page H4364]]
General's certificate of necessity for confidential military
purposes; of which $1,336,000, to remain available for
obligation until September 30, 2027, shall be for
procurement; and of which $1,900,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2026, shall be for research, development,
test and evaluation.
TITLE VII
RELATED AGENCIES
Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System Fund
For payment to the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
and Disability System Fund, to maintain the proper funding
level for continuing the operation of the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System,
$514,000,000.
Intelligence Community Management Account
For necessary expenses of the Intelligence Community
Management Account, $641,585,000.
TITLE VIII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 8001.  No part of any appropriation contained in this
Act shall be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not
authorized by the Congress.
Sec. 8002.  During the current fiscal year, provisions of
law prohibiting the payment of compensation to, or employment
of, any person not a citizen of the United States shall not
apply to personnel of the Department of Defense:  Provided,
That salary increases granted to direct and indirect hire
foreign national employees of the Department of Defense
funded by this Act shall not be at a rate in excess of the
percentage increase authorized by law for civilian employees
of the Department of Defense whose pay is computed under the
provisions of section 5332 of title 5, United States Code, or
at a rate in excess of the percentage increase provided by
the appropriate host nation to its own employees, whichever
is higher:  Provided further, That this section shall not
apply to Department of Defense foreign service national
employees serving at United States diplomatic missions whose
pay is set by the Department of State under the Foreign
Service Act of 1980:  Provided further, That the limitations
of this provision shall not apply to foreign national
employees of the Department of Defense in the Republic of
Turkey.
Sec. 8003.  No part of any appropriation contained in this
Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current
fiscal year, unless expressly so provided herein.
Sec. 8004.  No more than 20 percent of the appropriations
in this Act which are limited for obligation during the
current fiscal year shall be obligated during the last 2
months of the fiscal year:  Provided, That this section shall
not apply to obligations for support of active duty training
of reserve components or summer camp training of the Reserve
Officers' Training Corps.
(transfer of funds)
Sec. 8005.  Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense
that such action is necessary in the national interest, the
Secretary may, with the approval of the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget, transfer not to exceed
$6,000,000,000 of working capital funds of the Department of
Defense or funds made available in this Act to the Department
of Defense for military functions (except military
construction) between such appropriations or funds or any
subdivision thereof, to be merged with and to be available
for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the
appropriation or fund to which transferred:  Provided, That
such authority to transfer may not be used unless for higher
priority items, based on unforeseen military requirements,
than those for which originally appropriated and in no case
where the item for which funds are requested has been denied
by the Congress:  Provided further, That the Secretary of
Defense shall notify the Congress promptly of all transfers
made pursuant to this authority or any other authority in
this Act:  Provided further, That no part of the funds in
this Act shall be available to prepare or present a request
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate for reprogramming of funds,
unless for higher priority items, based on unforeseen
military requirements, than those for which originally
appropriated and in no case where the item for which
reprogramming is requested has been denied by the Congress:
Provided further, That a request for multiple reprogrammings
of funds using authority provided in this section shall be
made prior to June 30, 2025:  Provided further, That
transfers among military personnel appropriations shall not
be taken into account for purposes of the limitation on the
amount of funds that may be transferred under this section.
Sec. 8006. (a) With regard to the list of specific
programs, projects, and activities (and the dollar amounts
and adjustments to budget activities corresponding to such
programs, projects, and activities) contained in the tables
titled Explanation of Project Level Adjustments in the
explanatory statement regarding this Act and the tables
contained in the classified annex accompanying this Act, the
obligation and expenditure of amounts appropriated or
otherwise made available in this Act for those programs,
projects, and activities are hereby required by law to be
carried out in the manner provided by such tables to the same
extent as if the tables were included in the text of this
Act.
(b) Amounts specified in the referenced tables described in
subsection (a) shall not be treated as subdivisions of
appropriations for purposes of section 8005 of this Act:
Provided, That section 8005 of this Act shall apply when
transfers of the amounts described in subsection (a) occur
between appropriation accounts, subject to the limitation in
subsection (c):  Provided further, That the transfer amount
limitation provided in section 8005 of this Act shall not
apply to transfers of amounts described in subsection (a) if
such transfers are necessary for the proper execution of such
funds.
(c) During the current fiscal year, amounts specified in
the referenced tables in titles III and IV of this Act
described in subsection (a) may not be transferred pursuant
to section 8005 of this Act other than for proper execution
of such amounts, as provided in subsection (b).
Sec. 8007. (a) Not later than 60 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Department of Defense shall submit
a report to the congressional defense committees to establish
the baseline for application of reprogramming and transfer
authorities for fiscal year 2025:  Provided, That the report
shall include--
(1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column
to display the President's budget request, adjustments made
by Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if
appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
(2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation both
by budget activity and program, project, and activity as
detailed in the Budget Appendix; and
(3) an identification of items of special congressional
interest.
(b) Notwithstanding section 8005 of this Act, none of the
funds provided in this Act shall be available for
reprogramming or transfer until the report identified in
subsection (a) is submitted to the congressional defense
committees, unless the Secretary of Defense certifies in
writing to the congressional defense committees that such
reprogramming or transfer is necessary as an emergency
requirement:  Provided, That this subsection shall not apply
to transfers from the following appropriations accounts:
(1) ``Environmental Restoration, Army'';
(2) ``Environmental Restoration, Navy'';
(3) ``Environmental Restoration, Air Force'';
(4) ``Environmental Restoration, Defense-Wide'';
(5) ``Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense
Sites''; and
(6) ``Drug Interdiction and Counter-drug Activities,
Defense''.
(transfer of funds)
Sec. 8008.  During the current fiscal year, cash balances
in working capital funds of the Department of Defense
established pursuant to section 2208 of title 10, United
States Code, may be maintained in only such amounts as are
necessary at any time for cash disbursements to be made from
such funds:  Provided, That transfers may be made between
such funds:  Provided further, That transfers may be made
between working capital funds and the ``Foreign Currency
Fluctuations, Defense'' appropriation and the ``Operation and
Maintenance'' appropriation accounts in such amounts as may
be determined by the Secretary of Defense, with the approval
of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget,
except that such transfers may not be made unless the
Secretary of Defense has notified the Congress of the
proposed transfer:  Provided further, That except in amounts
equal to the amounts appropriated to working capital funds in
this Act, no obligations may be made against a working
capital fund to procure or increase the value of war reserve
material inventory, unless the Secretary of Defense has
notified the Congress prior to any such obligation.
Sec. 8009.  Funds appropriated by this Act may not be used
to initiate a special access program without prior
notification 30 calendar days in advance to the congressional
defense committees.
Sec. 8010.  None of the funds provided by this Act shall be
available to initiate: (1) a multiyear contract that employs
economic order quantity procurement in excess of $20,000,000
in any one year of the contract or that includes an unfunded
contingent liability in excess of $20,000,000; or (2) a
contract for advance procurement leading to a multiyear
contract that employs economic order quantity procurement in
excess of $20,000,000 in any one year, unless the
congressional defense committees have been notified at least
30 days in advance of the proposed contract award:  Provided,
That no part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall
be available to initiate a multiyear contract for which the
economic order quantity advance procurement is not funded at
least to the limits of the Government's liability:  Provided
further, That no part of any appropriation contained in this
Act shall be available to initiate multiyear procurement
contracts for any systems or component thereof if the value
of the multiyear contract would exceed $500,000,000 unless
specifically provided in this Act:  Provided further, That no
multiyear procurement contract can be terminated without 30-
day prior notification to the congressional defense
committees:  Provided further, That the execution of
multiyear authority shall require the use of a present value
analysis to determine lowest cost compared to an annual
procurement:  Provided further, That none of the funds
provided by this Act may be used for a multiyear contract
executed after the date of the enactment of this Act unless
in the case of any such contract--
(1) the Secretary of Defense has submitted to Congress a
budget request for full funding of units to be procured
through the contract and, in the case of a contract for
procurement of aircraft, that includes, for any aircraft unit
to be procured through the contract for which procurement
funds are requested in that budget request for production
beyond advance procurement activities in the fiscal year
covered by the budget, full funding of procurement of such
unit in that fiscal year;
(2) cancellation provisions in the contract do not include
consideration of recurring manufacturing costs of the
contractor associated with the production of unfunded units
to be delivered under the contract;
(3) the contract provides that payments to the contractor
under the contract shall not be made
[[Page H4365]]
in advance of incurred costs on funded units; and
(4) the contract does not provide for a price adjustment
based on a failure to award a follow-on contract.
Funds appropriated in title III of this Act may be used for
multiyear procurement contracts for CH-53K Heavy Lift
helicopters, and USS Virginia Class (SSN-774).
Sec. 8011.  Within the funds appropriated for the operation
and maintenance of the Armed Forces, funds are hereby
appropriated pursuant to section 401 of title 10, United
States Code, for humanitarian and civic assistance costs
under chapter 20 of title 10, United States Code:  Provided,
That such funds may also be obligated for humanitarian and
civic assistance costs incidental to authorized operations
and pursuant to authority granted in section 401 of title 10,
United States Code, and these obligations shall be reported
as required by section 401(d) of title 10, United States
Code:  Provided further, That funds available for operation
and maintenance shall be available for providing humanitarian
and similar assistance by using Civic Action Teams in the
Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands and freely
associated states of Micronesia, pursuant to the Compact of
Free Association as authorized by Public Law 99-239:
Provided further, That upon a determination by the Secretary
of the Army that such action is beneficial for graduate
medical education programs conducted at Army medical
facilities located in Hawaii, the Secretary of the Army may
authorize the provision of medical services at such
facilities and transportation to such facilities, on a
nonreimbursable basis, for civilian patients from American
Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the
Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau,
and Guam.
Sec. 8012. (a) Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate a report on excessive
contractor payments that exceed the thresholds established in
10 U.S.C. chapter 271 ``Truthful Cost or Pricing Data (Truth
in Negotiations)'' or 41 U.S.C. chapter 35 ``Truthful Cost or
Pricing Data'' and with respect to which none of the
exceptions to certified cost or pricing data requirements
apply.
(b) The report required by subsection (a) shall also
include the following:
(1) The amounts collected, adjusted, or offset from
contractors as a result of providing defective cost and
pricing data;
(2) The mechanisms used to identify violations of 10 U.S.C.
chapter 271 or 41 U.S.C. chapter 35;
(3) Disciplinary actions taken by the Department of Defense
when violations of 10 U.S.C. chapter 271 or 41 U.S.C. chapter
35 are identified, regardless of whether they are included in
the System for Award Management; and
(4) Any referrals made to the Department of Justice.
Sec. 8013.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act shall be used in any way, directly
or indirectly, to influence congressional action on any
legislation or appropriation matters pending before the
Congress.
Sec. 8014.  None of the funds available in this Act to the
Department of Defense, other than appropriations made for
necessary or routine refurbishments, upgrades, or maintenance
activities, shall be used to reduce or to prepare to reduce
the number of deployed and non-deployed strategic delivery
vehicles and launchers below the levels set forth in the
report submitted to Congress in accordance with section 1042
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2012.
(transfer of funds)
Sec. 8015. (a) Funds appropriated in title III of this Act
for the Department of Defense Pilot Mentor-Protege Program
may be transferred to any other appropriation contained in
this Act solely for the purpose of implementing a Mentor-
Protege Program developmental assistance agreement pursuant
to section 4902 of title 10, United States Code, under the
authority of this provision or any other transfer authority
contained in this Act.
(b) The Secretary of Defense shall include with the budget
justification documents in support of the budget for fiscal
year 2026 (as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105
of title 31, United States Code) a description of each
transfer under this section that occurred during the last
fiscal year before the fiscal year in which such budget is
submitted.
Sec. 8016.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be available for the purchase
by the Department of Defense (and its departments and
agencies) of welded shipboard anchor and mooring chain unless
the anchor and mooring chain are manufactured in the United
States from components which are substantially manufactured
in the United States:  Provided, That for the purpose of this
section, the term ``manufactured'' shall include cutting,
heat treating, quality control, and testing of chain and
welding (including the forging and shot blasting process):
Provided further, That for the purpose of this section
substantially all of the components of anchor and mooring
chain shall be considered to be produced or manufactured in
the United States if the aggregate cost of the components
produced or manufactured in the United States exceeds the
aggregate cost of the components produced or manufactured
outside the United States:  Provided further, That when
adequate domestic supplies are not available to meet
Department of Defense requirements on a timely basis, the
Secretary of the Service responsible for the procurement may
waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying
in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate that such an acquisition
must be made in order to acquire capability for national
security purposes.
Sec. 8017.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act shall be used for the support of
any nonappropriated funds activity of the Department of
Defense that procures malt beverages and wine with
nonappropriated funds for resale (including such alcoholic
beverages sold by the drink) on a military installation
located in the United States unless such malt beverages and
wine are procured within that State, or in the case of the
District of Columbia, within the District of Columbia, in
which the military installation is located:  Provided, That,
in a case in which the military installation is located in
more than one State, purchases may be made in any State in
which the installation is located:  Provided further, That
such local procurement requirements for malt beverages and
wine shall apply to all alcoholic beverages only for military
installations in States which are not contiguous with another
State:  Provided further, That alcoholic beverages other than
wine and malt beverages, in contiguous States and the
District of Columbia shall be procured from the most
competitive source, price and other factors considered.
Sec. 8018.  None of the funds available to the Department
of Defense may be used to demilitarize or dispose of M-1
Carbines, M-1 Garand rifles, M-14 rifles, .22 caliber rifles,
.30 caliber rifles, or M-1911 pistols, or to demilitarize or
destroy small arms ammunition or ammunition components that
are not otherwise prohibited from commercial sale under
Federal law, unless the small arms ammunition or ammunition
components are certified by the Secretary of the Army or
designee as unserviceable or unsafe for further use.
Sec. 8019.  No more than $500,000 of the funds appropriated
or made available in this Act shall be used during a single
fiscal year for any single relocation of an organization,
unit, activity or function of the Department of Defense into
or within the National Capital Region:  Provided, That the
Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-
case basis by certifying in writing to the congressional
defense committees that such a relocation is required in the
best interest of the Government.
Sec. 8020.  Of the funds made available in this Act under
the heading ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', $25,169,000 shall
be available only for incentive payments authorized by
section 504 of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C.
1544):  Provided, That a prime contractor or a subcontractor
at any tier that makes a subcontract award to any
subcontractor or supplier as defined in section 1544 of title
25, United States Code, or a small business owned and
controlled by an individual or individuals defined under
section 4221(9) of title 25, United States Code, shall be
considered a contractor for the purposes of being allowed
additional compensation under section 504 of the Indian
Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1544) whenever the prime
contract or subcontract amount is over $500,000 and involves
the expenditure of funds appropriated by an Act making
appropriations for the Department of Defense with respect to
any fiscal year:  Provided further, That notwithstanding
section 1906 of title 41, United States Code, this section
shall be applicable to any Department of Defense acquisition
of supplies or services, including any contract and any
subcontract at any tier for acquisition of commercial items
produced or manufactured, in whole or in part, by any
subcontractor or supplier defined in section 1544 of title
25, United States Code, or a small business owned and
controlled by an individual or individuals defined under
section 4221(9) of title 25, United States Code.
Sec. 8021. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
the Secretary of the Air Force may convey at no cost to the
Air Force, without consideration, to Indian tribes located in
the States of Nevada, Idaho, North Dakota, South Dakota,
Montana, Oregon, Minnesota, and Washington relocatable
military housing units located at Grand Forks Air Force Base,
Malmstrom Air Force Base, Mountain Home Air Force Base,
Ellsworth Air Force Base, and Minot Air Force Base that are
excess to the needs of the Air Force.
(b) The Secretary of the Air Force shall convey, at no cost
to the Air Force, military housing units under subsection (a)
in accordance with the request for such units that are
submitted to the Secretary by the Operation Walking Shield
Program on behalf of Indian tribes located in the States of
Nevada, Idaho, North Dakota, South Dakota, Montana, Oregon,
Minnesota, and Washington. Any such conveyance shall be
subject to the condition that the housing units shall be
removed within a reasonable period of time, as determined by
the Secretary.
(c) The Operation Walking Shield Program shall resolve any
conflicts among requests of Indian tribes for housing units
under subsection (a) before submitting requests to the
Secretary of the Air Force under subsection (b).
(d) In this section, the term ``Indian tribe'' means any
recognized Indian tribe included on the current list
published by the Secretary of the Interior under section 104
of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe Act of 1994 (Public
Law 103-454; 108 Stat. 4792; 25 U.S.C. 5131).
Sec. 8022.  Of the funds appropriated to the Department of
Defense under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance,
Defense-Wide'', not less than $19,861,000 may be made
available only for the mitigation of environmental impacts,
including training and technical assistance to tribes,
related administrative support, the gathering of information,
documenting of environmental damage, and developing a system
for prioritization of mitigation and cost to complete
estimates for mitigation, on Indian lands resulting from
Department of Defense activities.
Sec. 8023.  Funds appropriated by this Act for the Defense
Media Activity may not be used for
[[Page H4366]]
any national or international political or psychological
activities.
Sec. 8024. (a) Of the funds made available in this Act, not
less than $73,500,000 shall be available for the Civil Air
Patrol Corporation, of which--
(1) $56,500,000 shall be available from ``Operation and
Maintenance, Air Force'' to support Civil Air Patrol
Corporation operation and maintenance, readiness, counter-
drug activities, and drug demand reduction activities
involving youth programs;
(2) $15,000,000 shall be available from ``Aircraft
Procurement, Air Force''; and
(3) $2,000,000 shall be available from ``Other Procurement,
Air Force'' for vehicle procurement.
(b) The Secretary of the Air Force should waive
reimbursement for any funds used by the Civil Air Patrol for
counter-drug activities in support of Federal, State, and
local government agencies.
Sec. 8025. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to establish a new
Department of Defense (department) federally funded research
and development center (FFRDC), either as a new entity, or as
a separate entity administrated by an organization managing
another FFRDC, or as a nonprofit membership corporation
consisting of a consortium of other FFRDCs and other
nonprofit entities.
(b) Except when acting in a technical advisory capacity, no
member of a Board of Directors, Trustees, Overseers, Advisory
Group, Special Issues Panel, Visiting Committee, or any
similar entity of a defense FFRDC, or any entity that
contracts with the Federal government to manage or operate
one or more FFRDCs, or any paid consultant to a defense FFRDC
shall receive funds appropriated by this Act as compensation
for services as a member of such entity:  Provided, That a
member of any such entity shall be allowed travel expenses
and per diem as authorized under the Federal Joint Travel
Regulations, when engaged in the performance of membership
duties:  Provided further, That except when acting in a
technical advisory capacity, no paid consultant shall receive
funds appropriated by this Act as compensation by more than
one FFRDC in a calendar year.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the
funds available to the department from any source during the
current fiscal year may be used by a defense FFRDC, through a
fee or other payment mechanism, for construction of new
buildings not located on a military installation, for payment
of cost sharing for projects funded by Government grants, for
absorption of contract overruns, or for certain charitable
contributions, not to include employee participation in
community service and/or development.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the
funds available to the department during fiscal year 2025,
not more than $2,886,300,000 may be funded for professional
technical staff-related costs of the defense FFRDCs:
Provided, That within such funds, not more than $461,300,000
shall be available for the defense studies and analysis
FFRDCs:  Provided further, That this subsection shall not
apply to staff years funded in the National Intelligence
Program and the Military Intelligence Program:  Provided
further, That the Secretary of Defense shall, with the
submission of the department's fiscal year 2026 budget
request, submit a report presenting the specific amounts of
staff years of technical effort to be allocated for each
defense FFRDC by program during that fiscal year and the
associated budget estimates, by appropriation account and
program.
Sec. 8026.  For the purposes of this Act, the term
``congressional defense committees'' means the Armed Services
Committee of the House of Representatives, the Armed Services
Committee of the Senate, the Subcommittee on Defense of the
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives,
and the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate.
Sec. 8027.  For the purposes of this Act, the term
``congressional intelligence committees'' means the Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of
Representatives, the Select Committee on Intelligence of the
Senate, the Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the
Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate.
Sec. 8028.  During the current fiscal year, the Department
of Defense may acquire the modification, depot maintenance
and repair of aircraft, vehicles and vessels as well as the
production of components and other Defense-related articles,
through competition between Department of Defense depot
maintenance activities and private firms:  Provided, That the
Senior Acquisition Executive of the military department or
Defense Agency concerned, with power of delegation, shall
certify that successful bids include comparable estimates of
all direct and indirect costs for both public and private
bids:  Provided further, That Office of Management and Budget
Circular A-76 shall not apply to competitions conducted under
this section.
Sec. 8029. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act
may be expended by an entity of the Department of Defense
unless the entity, in expending the funds, complies with the
Buy American Act. For purposes of this subsection, the term
``Buy American Act'' means chapter 83 of title 41, United
States Code.
(b) If the Secretary of Defense determines that a person
has been convicted of intentionally affixing a label bearing
a ``Made in America'' inscription to any product sold in or
shipped to the United States that is not made in America, the
Secretary shall determine, in accordance with section 4658 of
title 10, United States Code, whether the person should be
debarred from contracting with the Department of Defense.
(c) In the case of any equipment or products purchased with
appropriations provided under this Act, it is the sense of
the Congress that any entity of the Department of Defense, in
expending the appropriation, purchase only American-made
equipment and products, provided that American-made equipment
and products are cost-competitive, quality competitive, and
available in a timely fashion.
Sec. 8030.  None of the funds appropriated or made
available in this Act shall be used to procure carbon, alloy,
or armor steel plate for use in any Government-owned facility
or property under the control of the Department of Defense
which were not melted and rolled in the United States or
Canada:  Provided, That these procurement restrictions shall
apply to any and all Federal Supply Class 9515, American
Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) or American Iron and
Steel Institute (AISI) specifications of carbon, alloy or
armor steel plate:  Provided further, That the Secretary of
the military department responsible for the procurement may
waive this restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying
in writing to the Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate that adequate domestic
supplies are not available to meet Department of Defense
requirements on a timely basis and that such an acquisition
must be made in order to acquire capability for national
security purposes:  Provided further, That these restrictions
shall not apply to contracts which are in being as of the
date of the enactment of this Act.
Sec. 8031. (a)(1) If the Secretary of Defense, after
consultation with the United States Trade Representative,
determines that a foreign country which is party to an
agreement described in paragraph (2) has violated the terms
of the agreement by discriminating against certain types of
products produced in the United States that are covered by
the agreement, the Secretary of Defense shall rescind the
Secretary's blanket waiver of the Buy American Act with
respect to such types of products produced in that foreign
country.
(2) An agreement referred to in paragraph (1) is any
reciprocal defense procurement memorandum of understanding,
between the United States and a foreign country pursuant to
which the Secretary of Defense has prospectively waived the
Buy American Act for certain products in that country.
(b) The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Congress a
report on the amount of Department of Defense purchases from
foreign entities in fiscal year 2025. Such report shall
separately indicate the dollar value of items for which the
Buy American Act was waived pursuant to any agreement
described in subsection (a)(2), the Trade Agreements Act of
1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), or any international agreement
to which the United States is a party.
(c) For purposes of this section, the term ``Buy American
Act'' means chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
Sec. 8032.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may
be used for the procurement of ball and roller bearings other
than those produced by a domestic source and of domestic
origin:  Provided, That the Secretary of the military
department responsible for such procurement may waive this
restriction on a case-by-case basis by certifying in writing
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate, that adequate domestic
supplies are not available to meet Department of Defense
requirements on a timely basis and that such an acquisition
must be made in order to acquire capability for national
security purposes:  Provided further, That this restriction
shall not apply to the purchase of ``commercial products'',
as defined by section 103 of title 41, United States Code,
except that the restriction shall apply to ball or roller
bearings purchased as end items.
Sec. 8033.  None of the funds in this Act may be used to
purchase any supercomputer which is not manufactured in the
United States, unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to
the congressional defense committees that such an acquisition
must be made in order to acquire capability for national
security purposes that is not available from United States
manufacturers.
Sec. 8034. (a) The Secretary of Defense may, on a case-by-
case basis, waive with respect to a foreign country each
limitation on the procurement of defense items from foreign
sources provided in law if the Secretary determines that the
application of the limitation with respect to that country
would invalidate cooperative programs entered into between
the Department of Defense and the foreign country, or would
invalidate reciprocal trade agreements for the procurement of
defense items entered into under section 4851 of title 10,
United States Code, and the country does not discriminate
against the same or similar defense items produced in the
United States for that country.
(b) Subsection (a) applies with respect to--
(1) contracts and subcontracts entered into on or after the
date of the enactment of this Act; and
(2) options for the procurement of items that are exercised
after such date under contracts that are entered into before
such date if the option prices are adjusted for any reason
other than the application of a waiver granted under
subsection (a).
(c) Subsection (a) does not apply to a limitation regarding
construction of public vessels, ball and roller bearings,
food, and clothing or textile materials as defined by section
XI (chapters 50-65) of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the
United States and products classified under headings 4010,
4202, 4203, 6401 through 6406, 6505, 7019, 7218 through 7229,
7304.41 through 7304.49, 7306.40, 7502 through 7508, 8105,
8108, 8109, 8211, 8215, and 9404.
Sec. 8035.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used for the purchase or
manufacture of a flag
[[Page H4367]]
of the United States unless such flags are treated as covered
items under section 4862(b) of title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 8036.  During the current fiscal year, amounts
contained in the Department of Defense Overseas Military
Facility Investment Recovery Account shall be available until
expended for the payments specified by section 2687a(b)(2) of
title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 8037.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations
which are available to the Department of Defense for
operation and maintenance may be used to purchase items
having an investment item unit cost of not more than
$350,000:  Provided, That upon determination by the Secretary
of Defense that such action is necessary to meet the
operational requirements of a Commander of a Combatant
Command engaged in a named contingency operation overseas,
such funds may be used to purchase items having an investment
item unit cost of not more than $500,000.
Sec. 8038.  Up to $8,132,000 of the funds appropriated
under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'' may be
made available for the Asia Pacific Regional Initiative
Program for the purpose of enabling the United States Indo-
Pacific Command to execute Theater Security Cooperation
activities such as humanitarian assistance, and payment of
incremental and personnel costs of training and exercising
with foreign security forces:  Provided, That funds made
available for this purpose may be used, notwithstanding any
other funding authorities for humanitarian assistance,
security assistance or combined exercise expenses:  Provided
further, That funds may not be obligated to provide
assistance to any foreign country that is otherwise
prohibited from receiving such type of assistance under any
other provision of law.
Sec. 8039.  The Secretary of Defense shall issue
regulations to prohibit the sale of any tobacco or tobacco-
related products in military resale outlets in the United
States, its territories and possessions at a price below the
most competitive price in the local community:  Provided,
That such regulations shall direct that the prices of tobacco
or tobacco-related products in overseas military retail
outlets shall be within the range of prices established for
military retail system stores located in the United States.
Sec. 8040. (a) During the current fiscal year, none of the
appropriations or funds available to the Department of
Defense Working Capital Funds shall be used for the purchase
of an investment item for the purpose of acquiring a new
inventory item for sale or anticipated sale during the
current fiscal year or a subsequent fiscal year to customers
of the Department of Defense Working Capital Funds if such an
item would not have been chargeable to the Department of
Defense Business Operations Fund during fiscal year 1994 and
if the purchase of such an investment item would be
chargeable during the current fiscal year to appropriations
made to the Department of Defense for procurement.
(b) The fiscal year 2026 budget request for the Department
of Defense as well as all justification material and other
documentation supporting the fiscal year 2026 Department of
Defense budget shall be prepared and submitted to the
Congress on the basis that any equipment which was classified
as an end item and funded in a procurement appropriation
contained in this Act shall be budgeted for in a proposed
fiscal year 2026 procurement appropriation and not in the
supply management business area or any other area or category
of the Department of Defense Working Capital Funds.
Sec. 8041.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for
programs of the Central Intelligence Agency shall remain
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year,
except for funds appropriated for the Reserve for
Contingencies, which shall remain available until September
30, 2026:  Provided, That funds appropriated, transferred, or
otherwise credited to the Central Intelligence Agency Central
Services Working Capital Fund during this or any prior fiscal
year shall remain available until expended:  Provided
further, That any funds appropriated or transferred to the
Central Intelligence Agency for advanced research and
development acquisition, for agent operations, and for covert
action programs authorized by the President under section 503
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3093) shall
remain available until September 30, 2026:  Provided further,
That any funds appropriated or transferred to the Central
Intelligence Agency for the construction, improvement, or
alteration of facilities, including leased facilities, to be
used primarily by personnel of the intelligence community,
shall remain available until September 30, 2027.
Sec. 8042. (a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and
(c), none of the funds made available by this Act may be
used--
(1) to establish a field operating agency; or
(2) to pay the basic pay of a member of the Armed Forces or
civilian employee of the Department of Defense who is
transferred or reassigned from a headquarters activity if the
member or employee's place of duty remains at the location of
that headquarters.
(b) The Secretary of Defense or Secretary of a military
department may waive the limitations in subsection (a), on a
case-by-case basis, if the Secretary determines, and
certifies to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate that the granting of the
waiver will reduce the personnel requirements or the
financial requirements of the department.
(c) This section does not apply to--
(1) field operating agencies funded within the National
Intelligence Program;
(2) an Army field operating agency established to
eliminate, mitigate, or counter the effects of improvised
explosive devices, and, as determined by the Secretary of the
Army, other similar threats;
(3) an Army field operating agency established to improve
the effectiveness and efficiencies of biometric activities
and to integrate common biometric technologies throughout the
Department of Defense; or
(4) an Air Force field operating agency established to
administer the Air Force Mortuary Affairs Program and
Mortuary Operations for the Department of Defense and
authorized Federal entities.
Sec. 8043. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act shall be available to convert to
contractor performance an activity or function of the
Department of Defense that, on or after the date of the
enactment of this Act, is performed by Department of Defense
civilian employees unless--
(1) the conversion is based on the result of a public-
private competition that includes a most efficient and cost
effective organization plan developed by such activity or
function;
(2) the Competitive Sourcing Official determines that, over
all performance periods stated in the solicitation of offers
for performance of the activity or function, the cost of
performance of the activity or function by a contractor would
be less costly to the Department of Defense by an amount that
equals or exceeds the lesser of--
(A) 10 percent of the most efficient organization's
personnel-related costs for performance of that activity or
function by Federal employees; or
(B) $10,000,000; and
(3) the contractor does not receive an advantage for a
proposal that would reduce costs for the Department of
Defense by--
(A) not making an employer-sponsored health insurance plan
available to the workers who are to be employed in the
performance of that activity or function under the contract;
or
(B) offering to such workers an employer-sponsored health
benefits plan that requires the employer to contribute less
towards the premium or subscription share than the amount
that is paid by the Department of Defense for health benefits
for civilian employees under chapter 89 of title 5, United
States Code.
(b)(1) The Department of Defense, without regard to
subsection (a) of this section or subsection (a), (b), or (c)
of section 2461 of title 10, United States Code, and
notwithstanding any administrative regulation, requirement,
or policy to the contrary shall have full authority to enter
into a contract for the performance of any commercial or
industrial type function of the Department of Defense that--
(A) is included on the procurement list established
pursuant to section 2 of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (section
8503 of title 41, United States Code);
(B) is planned to be converted to performance by a
qualified nonprofit agency for the blind or by a qualified
nonprofit agency for other severely handicapped individuals
in accordance with that Act; or
(C) is planned to be converted to performance by a
qualified firm under at least 51 percent ownership by an
Indian tribe, as defined in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C.
450b(e)), or a Native Hawaiian Organization, as defined in
section 8(a)(15) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
637(a)(15)).
(2) This section shall not apply to depot contracts or
contracts for depot maintenance as provided in sections 2469
and 2474 of title 10, United States Code.
(c) The conversion of any activity or function of the
Department of Defense under the authority provided by this
section shall be credited toward any competitive or
outsourcing goal, target, or measurement that may be
established by statute, regulation, or policy and is deemed
to be awarded under the authority of, and in compliance with,
subsection (h) of section 2304 of title 10, United States
Code, for the competition or outsourcing of commercial
activities.
(rescissions)
Sec. 8044.  Of the funds appropriated in Department of
Defense Appropriations Acts, the following funds are hereby
rescinded from the following accounts and programs in the
specified amounts:  Provided, That no amounts may be
rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress
as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent
resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985:
``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 2023/2025, $49,963,000;
``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2023/2025,
$201,420,000;
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', 2024/2025,
$50,000,000;
``Counter-ISIS Train and Equip Fund'', 2024/2025,
$50,000,000;
``Cooperative Threat Reduction Account'', 2024/2026,
$91,000,000;
``Aircraft Procurement, Navy'', 2024/2026, $17,468,000;
``Other Procurement, Navy'', 2024/2026, $22,872,000
``Procurement, Marine Corps'', 2024/2026, $71,257,000;
``Aircraft Procurement, Air Force'', 2024/2026,
$90,000,000;
``Other Procurement, Air Force'', 2024/2026, $532,994,000;
``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 2024/2026, $6,077,000; and
``Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Navy'', 2024/
2025, $25,000,000.
Sec. 8045.  None of the funds available in this Act may be
used to reduce the authorized positions for military
technicians (dual status) of the Army National Guard, Air
National Guard, Army Reserve and Air Force Reserve for the
purpose of applying any administratively imposed civilian
personnel ceiling, freeze, or reduction on military
technicians (dual status), unless such reductions are a
direct result of a reduction in military force structure.
[[Page H4368]]
Sec. 8046.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available in this Act may be obligated or expended for
assistance to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea
unless specifically appropriated for that purpose:  Provided,
That this restriction shall not apply to any activities
incidental to the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency mission
to recover and identify the remains of United States Armed
Forces personnel from the Democratic People's Republic of
Korea.
Sec. 8047.  In this fiscal year and each fiscal year
thereafter, funds appropriated for operation and maintenance
of the Military Departments, Combatant Commands and Defense
Agencies shall be available for reimbursement of pay,
allowances and other expenses which would otherwise be
incurred against appropriations for the National Guard and
Reserve when members of the National Guard and Reserve
provide intelligence or counterintelligence support to
Combatant Commands, Defense Agencies and Joint Intelligence
Activities, including the activities and programs included
within the National Intelligence Program and the Military
Intelligence Program:  Provided, That nothing in this section
authorizes deviation from established Reserve and National
Guard personnel and training procedures.
Sec. 8048. (a) None of the funds available to the
Department of Defense for any fiscal year for drug
interdiction or counter-drug activities may be transferred to
any other department or agency of the United States except as
specifically provided in an appropriations law.
(b) None of the funds available to the Central Intelligence
Agency for any fiscal year for drug interdiction or counter-
drug activities may be transferred to any other department or
agency of the United States except as specifically provided
in an appropriations law.
Sec. 8049.  In addition to the amounts appropriated or
otherwise made available elsewhere in this Act, $49,000,000
is hereby appropriated to the Department of Defense:
Provided, That upon the determination of the Secretary of
Defense that it shall serve the national interest, the
Secretary shall make grants in the amounts specified as
follows: $24,000,000 to the United Service Organizations and
$25,000,000 to the Red Cross.
Sec. 8050.  Notwithstanding any other provision in this
Act, the Small Business Innovation Research program and the
Small Business Technology Transfer program set-asides shall
be taken proportionally from all programs, projects, or
activities to the extent they contribute to the extramural
budget. The Secretary of each military department, the
Director of each Defense Agency, and the head of each other
relevant component of the Department of Defense shall submit
to the congressional defense committees, concurrent with
submission of the budget justification documents to Congress
pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, a
report with a detailed accounting of the Small Business
Innovation Research program and the Small Business Technology
Transfer program set-asides taken from programs, projects, or
activities within such department, agency, or component
during the most recently completed fiscal year.
Sec. 8051.  None of the funds available to the Department
of Defense under this Act may be obligated or expended to pay
a contractor under a contract with the Department of Defense
for costs of any amount paid by the contractor to an employee
when--
(1) such costs are for a bonus or otherwise in excess of
the normal salary paid by the contractor to the employee; and
(2) such bonus is part of restructuring costs associated
with a business combination.
(including transfer of funds)
Sec. 8052.  During the current fiscal year, no more than
$30,000,000 of appropriations made in this Act under the
heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'' may be
transferred to appropriations available for the pay of
military personnel, to be merged with, and to be available
for the same time period as the appropriations to which
transferred, to be used in support of such personnel in
connection with support and services for eligible
organizations and activities outside the Department of
Defense pursuant to section 2012 of title 10, United States
Code.
Sec. 8053. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
the Chief of the National Guard Bureau may permit the use of
equipment of the National Guard Distance Learning Project by
any person or entity on a space-available, reimbursable
basis. The Chief of the National Guard Bureau shall establish
the amount of reimbursement for such use on a case-by-case
basis.
(b) Amounts collected under subsection (a) shall be
credited to funds available for the National Guard Distance
Learning Project and be available to defray the costs
associated with the use of equipment of the project under
that subsection. Such funds shall be available for such
purposes without fiscal year limitation.
Sec. 8054. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this or prior Acts may be obligated or
expended to retire, prepare to retire, or place in storage or
on backup aircraft inventory status any C-40 aircraft.
(b) The limitation under subsection (a) shall not apply to
an individual C-40 aircraft that the Secretary of the Air
Force determines, on a case-by-case basis, to be no longer
mission capable due to a Class A mishap.
(c) If the Secretary determines under subsection (b) that
an aircraft is no longer mission capable, the Secretary shall
submit to the congressional defense committees a
certification in writing that the status of such aircraft is
due to a Class A mishap and not due to lack of maintenance,
repairs, or other reasons.
(d) Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the
congressional defense committees a report on the necessary
steps taken by the Department of Defense to meet the travel
requirements for official or representational duties of
members of Congress and the Cabinet in fiscal years 2025 and
2026.
Sec. 8055. (a) None of the funds appropriated in title IV
of this Act may be used to procure end-items for delivery to
military forces for operational training, operational use, or
inventory requirements:  Provided, That this restriction does
not apply to end-items used in development, prototyping in
accordance with an approved test strategy, and test
activities preceding and leading to acceptance for
operational use.
(b) If the number of end-items budgeted with funds
appropriated in title IV of this Act exceeds the number
required in an approved test strategy, the Under Secretary of
Defense (Research and Engineering) and the Under Secretary of
Defense (Acquisition and Sustainment), in coordination with
the responsible Service Acquisition Executive, shall certify
in writing to the congressional defense committees that there
is a bonafide need for the additional end-items at the time
of submittal to Congress of the budget of the President for
fiscal year 2026 pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United
States Code:  Provided, That this restriction does not apply
to programs funded within the National Intelligence Program.
(c) The Secretary of Defense shall, at the time of the
submittal to Congress of the budget of the President for
fiscal year 2026 pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United
States Code, submit to the congressional defense committees a
report detailing the use of funds requested in research,
development, test and evaluation accounts for end-items used
in development, prototyping and test activities preceding and
leading to acceptance for operational use:  Provided, That
the report shall set forth, for each end item covered by the
preceding proviso, a detailed list of the statutory
authorities under which amounts in the accounts described in
that proviso were used for such item:  Provided further, That
the Secretary of Defense shall, at the time of the submittal
to Congress of the budget of the President for fiscal year
2026 pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States
Code, submit to the congressional defense committees a
certification that funds requested for fiscal year 2026 in
research, development, test and evaluation accounts are in
compliance with this section:  Provided further, That the
Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-
case basis by certifying in writing to the Subcommittees on
Defense of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate that it is in the national
security interest to do so.
Sec. 8056.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this or other Department of Defense
Appropriations Acts may be obligated or expended for the
purpose of performing repairs or maintenance to military
family housing units of the Department of Defense, including
areas in such military family housing units that may be used
for the purpose of conducting official Department of Defense
business.
Sec. 8057.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
funds appropriated in this Act under the heading ``Research,
Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' for any new
start defense innovation acceleration or rapid prototyping
program demonstration project with a value of more than
$5,000,000 may only be obligated 15 days after a report,
including a description of the project, the planned
acquisition and transition strategy and its estimated annual
and total cost, has been provided in writing to the
congressional defense committees:  Provided, That the
Secretary of Defense may waive this restriction on a case-by-
case basis by certifying to the congressional defense
committees that it is in the national interest to do so.
Sec. 8058.  The Secretary of Defense shall continue to
provide a classified quarterly report to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the
Senate, Subcommittees on Defense on certain matters as
directed in the classified annex accompanying this Act.
Sec. 8059.  Notwithstanding section 12310(b) of title 10,
United States Code, a servicemember who is a member of the
National Guard serving on full-time National Guard duty under
section 502(f) of title 32, United States Code, may perform
duties in support of the ground-based elements of the
National Ballistic Missile Defense System.
Sec. 8060.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be
used to transfer to any nongovernmental entity ammunition
held by the Department of Defense that has a center-fire
cartridge and a United States military nomenclature
designation of ``armor penetrator'', ``armor piercing (AP)'',
``armor piercing incendiary (API)'', or ``armor-piercing
incendiary tracer (API-T)'', except to an entity performing
demilitarization services for the Department of Defense under
a contract that requires the entity to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Department of Defense that armor piercing
projectiles are either: (1) rendered incapable of reuse by
the demilitarization process; or (2) used to manufacture
ammunition pursuant to a contract with the Department of
Defense or the manufacture of ammunition for export pursuant
to a License for Permanent Export of Unclassified Military
Articles issued by the Department of State.
Sec. 8061.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
Chief of the National Guard Bureau, or their designee, may
waive payment of all or part of the consideration that
otherwise would be required under section 2667 of title 10,
United States Code, in the case of a lease of personal
property for a period not in excess of 1 year to any
organization specified in section 508(d) of title 32, United
States Code, or any other youth, social, or fraternal
nonprofit organization as may be approved by the Chief of the
[[Page H4369]]
National Guard Bureau, or their designee, on a case-by-case
basis.
(including transfer of funds)
Sec. 8062.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under
the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $194,452,598
shall remain available until expended:  Provided, That,
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of
Defense is authorized to transfer such funds to other
activities of the Federal Government:  Provided further, That
the Secretary of Defense is authorized to enter into and
carry out contracts for the acquisition of real property,
construction, personal services, and operations related to
projects carrying out the purposes of this section:  Provided
further, That contracts entered into under the authority of
this section may provide for such indemnification as the
Secretary determines to be necessary:  Provided further, That
projects authorized by this section shall comply with
applicable Federal, State, and local law to the maximum
extent consistent with the national security, as determined
by the Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 8063. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this or
any other Act may be used to take any action to modify--
(1) the appropriations account structure for the National
Intelligence Program budget, including through the creation
of a new appropriation or new appropriation account;
(2) how the National Intelligence Program budget request is
presented in the unclassified P-1, R-1, and O-1 documents
supporting the Department of Defense budget request;
(3) the process by which the National Intelligence Program
appropriations are apportioned to the executing agencies; or
(4) the process by which the National Intelligence Program
appropriations are allotted, obligated and disbursed.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall be construed to
prohibit the merger of programs or changes to the National
Intelligence Program budget at or below the Expenditure
Center level, provided such change is otherwise in accordance
with paragraphs (1)-(3) of subsection (a).
(c) The Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary
of Defense may jointly, only for the purposes of achieving
auditable financial statements and improving fiscal
reporting, study and develop detailed proposals for
alternative financial management processes. Such study shall
include a comprehensive counterintelligence risk assessment
to ensure that none of the alternative processes will
adversely affect counterintelligence.
(d) Upon development of the detailed proposals defined
under subsection (c), the Director of National Intelligence
and the Secretary of Defense shall--
(1) provide the proposed alternatives to all affected
agencies;
(2) receive certification from all affected agencies
attesting that the proposed alternatives will help achieve
auditability, improve fiscal reporting, and will not
adversely affect counterintelligence; and
(3) not later than 30 days after receiving all necessary
certifications under paragraph (2), present the proposed
alternatives and certifications to the congressional defense
and intelligence committees.
(including transfer of funds)
Sec. 8064.  During the current fiscal year, not to exceed
$11,000,000 from each of the appropriations made in title II
of this Act for ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'',
``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', and ``Operation and
Maintenance, Air Force'' may be transferred by the military
department concerned to its central fund established for
Fisher Houses and Suites pursuant to section 2493(d) of title
10, United States Code.
(including transfer of funds)
Sec. 8065.  In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in
this Act, $5,000,000 is hereby appropriated to the Department
of Defense, to remain available for obligation until
expended:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision
of law, that upon the determination of the Secretary of
Defense that it shall serve the national interest, these
funds shall be available only for a grant to the Fisher House
Foundation, Inc., only for the construction and furnishing of
additional Fisher Houses to meet the needs of military family
members when confronted with the illness or hospitalization
of an eligible military beneficiary.
(including transfer of funds)
Sec. 8066.  Of the amounts appropriated for ``Operation and
Maintenance, Navy'', up to $1,000,000 shall be available for
transfer to the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service
Development Trust Fund established under section 116 of the
John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Training and
Development Act (2 U.S.C. 1105).
Sec. 8067.  None of the funds available to the Department
of Defense may be obligated to modify command and control
relationships to give Fleet Forces Command operational and
administrative control of United States Navy forces assigned
to the Pacific fleet:  Provided, That the command and control
relationships which existed on October 1, 2004, shall remain
in force until a written modification has been proposed to
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate:  Provided further, That the
proposed modification may be implemented 30 days after the
notification unless an objection is received from either the
House or Senate Appropriations Committees:  Provided further,
That any proposed modification shall not preclude the ability
of the commander of United States Indo-Pacific Command to
meet operational requirements.
Sec. 8068.  Any notice that is required to be submitted to
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate under section 3601 of title
10, United States Code, as added by section 804(a) of the
James M. Inhofe National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2023 shall be submitted pursuant to that requirement
concurrently to the Subcommittees on Defense of the
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate.
Sec. 8069.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under
the headings ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'' and ``Research,
Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'',
$500,000,000 shall be for the Israeli Cooperative Programs:
Provided, That of this amount, $110,000,000 shall be for the
Secretary of Defense to provide to the Government of Israel
for the procurement of the Iron Dome defense system to
counter short-range rocket threats, subject to the U.S.-
Israel Iron Dome Procurement Agreement, as amended;
$127,000,000 shall be for the Short Range Ballistic Missile
Defense (SRBMD) program, including cruise missile defense
research and development under the SRBMD program; $40,000,000
shall be for co-production activities of SRBMD systems in the
United States and in Israel to meet Israel's defense
requirements consistent with each nation's laws, regulations,
and procedures, subject to the U.S.-Israeli co-production
agreement for SRBMD, as amended; $50,000,000 shall be for an
upper-tier component to the Israeli Missile Defense
Architecture, of which $50,000,000 shall be for co-production
activities of Arrow 3 Upper Tier systems in the United States
and in Israel to meet Israel's defense requirements
consistent with each nation's laws, regulations, and
procedures, subject to the U.S.-Israeli co-production
agreement for Arrow 3 Upper Tier, as amended; and
$173,000,000 shall be for the Arrow System Improvement
Program including development of a long range, ground and
airborne, detection suite.
Sec. 8070.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under
the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'',
$1,930,024,000 shall be available until September 30, 2025,
to fund prior year shipbuilding cost increases for the
following programs:
(1) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2013/2025: Carrier Replacement Program, $236,000,000;
(2) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2016/2025 DDG 51 Program, $10,509,000;
(3) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2017/2025 Virginia Class Submarine Program,
$219,370,000;
(4) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2017/2025 DDG 51 Program, $115,600,000;
(5) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2017/2025 Littoral Combat Ship Program, $8,100,000;
(6) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2017/2025 LHA Replacement Program, $115,397,000;
(7) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2018/2025 Virginia Class Submarine Program,
$73,634,000;
(8) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2018/2025 DDG 51 Program, $107,405,000;
(9) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2018/2025 Littoral Combat Ship Program, $12,000,000;
(10) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2018/2025 LPD17 (Flight II) Amphibious Transport Dock
Program, $19,158,000;
(11) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2018/2025 Oceanographic Ships Program, $18,000,000;
(12) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2018/2025 Ship to Shore Connector Program,
$14,694,000;
(13) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2019/2025 Littoral Combat Ship Program, $27,900,000;
(14) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2019/2025 T-AO Fleet Oiler Program, $49,995,000;
(15) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2019/2025 Ship to Shore Connector Program,
$33,345,000;
(16) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2020/2025 CVN Refueling Overhauls, $669,171,000;
(17) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2020/2025 T-AO Fleet Oiler Program, $151,837,000;
(18) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2020/2025 Towing, Salvage, and Rescue Ship Program,
$978,000;
(19) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2021/2025 Towing, Salvage, and Rescue Ship Program,
$17,375,000;
(20) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2022/2025 T-AO Fleet Oiler Program, $13,222,000;
(21) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2022/2025 Towing, Salvage, and Rescue Ship Program,
$4,234,000; and
(22) Under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'', 2023/2025 T-AO Fleet Oiler Program, $12,100,000.
Sec. 8071.  Funds appropriated by this Act for intelligence
and intelligence-related activities are deemed to be
specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of
section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3094(a)(1)) until the enactment of the Intelligence
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2025.
Sec. 8072.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be
available for obligation or expenditure through a
reprogramming of funds that creates or initiates a new
program, project, or activity unless such program, project,
or activity must be undertaken immediately in the interest of
national security and only after written prior notification
to the congressional defense committees.
Sec. 8073.  None of the funds in this Act may be used for
research, development, test, evaluation, procurement or
deployment of nuclear armed interceptors of a missile defense
system.
[[Page H4370]]
Sec. 8074.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be obligated or expended for
the purpose of decommissioning any Littoral Combat Ship or
the U.S.S. Lake Erie.
Sec. 8075.  For purposes of section 1553(b) of title 31,
United States Code, any subdivision of appropriations made in
this Act under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'' shall be considered to be for the same purpose as any
subdivision under the heading ``Shipbuilding and Conversion,
Navy'' appropriations in any prior fiscal year, and the 1
percent limitation shall apply to the total amount of the
appropriation.
Sec. 8076.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act shall be used to reduce or
disestablish the operation of the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance
Squadron of the Air Force Reserve, if such action would
reduce the WC-130 Weather Reconnaissance mission below the
levels funded in this Act:  Provided, That the Air Force
shall allow the 53rd Weather Reconnaissance Squadron to
perform other missions in support of national defense
requirements during the non-hurricane season.
Sec. 8077.  None of the funds provided in this Act shall be
available for integration of foreign intelligence information
unless the information has been lawfully collected and
processed during the conduct of authorized foreign
intelligence activities:  Provided, That information
pertaining to United States persons shall only be handled in
accordance with protections provided in the Fourth Amendment
of the United States Constitution as implemented through
Executive Order No. 12333.
Sec. 8078.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act for
programs of the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence shall remain available for obligation beyond the
current fiscal year, except for funds appropriated for
research and technology, which shall remain available until
September 30, 2026.
Sec. 8079. (a) Not later than 60 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence
shall submit a report to the congressional intelligence
committees to establish the baseline for application of
reprogramming and transfer authorities for fiscal year 2025:
Provided, That the report shall include--
(1) a table for each appropriation with a separate column
to display the President's budget request, adjustments made
by Congress, adjustments due to enacted rescissions, if
appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level;
(2) a delineation in the table for each appropriation by
Expenditure Center and project; and
(3) an identification of items of special congressional
interest.
(b) None of the funds provided for the National
Intelligence Program in this Act shall be available for
reprogramming or transfer until the report identified in
subsection (a) is submitted to the congressional intelligence
committees, unless the Director of National Intelligence
certifies in writing to the congressional intelligence
committees that such reprogramming or transfer is necessary
as an emergency requirement.
Sec. 8080.  Any transfer of amounts appropriated to the
Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development
Account in or for fiscal year 2025 to a military department
or Defense Agency pursuant to section 1705(e)(1) of title 10,
United States Code, shall be covered by and subject to
section 8005 of this Act.
Sec. 8081. (a) None of the funds provided for the National
Intelligence Program in this or any prior appropriations Act
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a
reprogramming or transfer of funds in accordance with section
102A(d) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3024(d)) that--
(1) creates a new start effort;
(2) terminates a program with appropriated funding of
$10,000,000 or more;
(3) transfers funding into or out of the National
Intelligence Program; or
(4) transfers funding between appropriations, unless the
congressional intelligence committees are notified 30 days in
advance of such reprogramming of funds; this notification
period may be reduced for urgent national security
requirements.
(b) None of the funds provided for the National
Intelligence Program in this or any prior appropriations Act
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a
reprogramming or transfer of funds in accordance with section
102A(d) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3024(d)) that results in a cumulative increase or decrease of
the levels specified in the classified annex accompanying the
Act unless the congressional intelligence committees are
notified 30 days in advance of such reprogramming of funds;
this notification period may be reduced for urgent national
security requirements.
Sec. 8082. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in
this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on
the public website of that agency any report required to be
submitted by the Congress in this or any other Act, upon the
determination by the head of the agency that it shall serve
the national interest.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
(1) the public posting of the report compromises national
security; or
(2) the report contains proprietary information.
(c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so
only after such report has been made available to the
requesting Committee or Committees of Congress for no less
than 45 days.
Sec. 8083. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be expended for any Federal
contract for an amount in excess of $1,000,000, unless the
contractor agrees not to--
(1) enter into any agreement with any of its employees or
independent contractors that requires, as a condition of
employment, that the employee or independent contractor agree
to resolve through arbitration any claim under title VII of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 or any tort related to or
arising out of sexual assault or harassment, including
assault and battery, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, false imprisonment, or negligent hiring,
supervision, or retention; or
(2) take any action to enforce any provision of an existing
agreement with an employee or independent contractor that
mandates that the employee or independent contractor resolve
through arbitration any claim under title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 or any tort related to or arising out of
sexual assault or harassment, including assault and battery,
intentional infliction of emotional distress, false
imprisonment, or negligent hiring, supervision, or retention.
(b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made
available by this Act may be expended for any Federal
contract unless the contractor certifies that it requires
each covered subcontractor to agree not to enter into, and
not to take any action to enforce any provision of, any
agreement as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
subsection (a), with respect to any employee or independent
contractor performing work related to such subcontract. For
purposes of this subsection, a ``covered subcontractor'' is
an entity that has a subcontract in excess of $1,000,000 on a
contract subject to subsection (a).
(c) The prohibitions in this section do not apply with
respect to a contractor's or subcontractor's agreements with
employees or independent contractors that may not be enforced
in a court of the United States.
(d) The Secretary of Defense may waive the application of
subsection (a) or (b) to a particular contractor or
subcontractor for the purposes of a particular contract or
subcontract if the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary
personally determines that the waiver is necessary to avoid
harm to national security interests of the United States, and
that the term of the contract or subcontract is not longer
than necessary to avoid such harm. The determination shall
set forth with specificity the grounds for the waiver and for
the contract or subcontract term selected, and shall state
any alternatives considered in lieu of a waiver and the
reasons each such alternative would not avoid harm to
national security interests of the United States. The
Secretary of Defense shall transmit to Congress, and
simultaneously make public, any determination under this
subsection not less than 15 business days before the contract
or subcontract addressed in the determination may be awarded.
(including transfer of funds)
Sec. 8084.  From within the funds appropriated for
operation and maintenance for the Defense Health Program in
this Act, up to $162,500,000, shall be available for transfer
to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund in accordance
with the provisions of section 1704 of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, Public Law 111-84:
Provided, That for purposes of section 1704(b), the facility
operations funded are operations of the integrated Captain
James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the
North Chicago Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy
Ambulatory Care Center, and supporting facilities designated
as a combined Federal medical facility as described by
section 706 of Public Law 110-417:  Provided further, That
additional funds may be transferred from funds appropriated
for operation and maintenance for the Defense Health Program
to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund upon written
notification by the Secretary of Defense to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the
Senate.
Sec. 8085.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used by the Department of
Defense or a component thereof in contravention of the
provisions of section 130h of title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 8086.  Notwithstanding price or other limitations
applicable to the purchase of passenger carrying vehicles,
appropriations available to the Department of Defense may be
used for the purchase of: (1) heavy and light armored
vehicles for the physical security of personnel or for force
protection purposes up to a limit of $450,000 per vehicle;
and (2) passenger motor vehicles up to a limit of $75,000 per
vehicle for use by military and civilian employees of the
Department of Defense in the United States Central Command
area of responsibility.
(including transfer of funds)
Sec. 8087.  Upon a determination by the Director of
National Intelligence that such action is necessary and in
the national interest, the Director may, with the approval of
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, transfer
not to exceed $1,500,000,000 of the funds made available in
this Act for the National Intelligence Program:  Provided,
That such authority to transfer may not be used unless for
higher priority items, based on unforeseen intelligence
requirements, than those for which originally appropriated
and in no case where the item for which funds are requested
has been denied by the Congress:  Provided further, That a
request for multiple reprogrammings of funds using authority
provided in this section shall be made prior to June 30,
2025.
Sec. 8088.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act for
``Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy'', $204,939,000, to
remain available for obligation until September 30, 2029, may
be used for the purchase of two used sealift vessels for the
National Defense Reserve Fleet, established under section 11
of the Merchant Ship Sales Act of
[[Page H4371]]
1946 (46 U.S.C. 57100):  Provided, That such amounts are
available for reimbursements to the Ready Reserve Force,
Maritime Administration account of the United States
Department of Transportation for programs, projects,
activities, and expenses related to the National Defense
Reserve Fleet:  Provided further, That notwithstanding
section 2218 of title 10, United States Code, none of these
funds shall be transferred to the National Defense Sealift
Fund for execution.
Sec. 8089.  The Secretary of Defense shall post grant
awards on a public website in a searchable format.
Sec. 8090.  None of the funds made available by this Act
may be used by the National Security Agency to--
(1) conduct an acquisition pursuant to section 702 of the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 for the purpose
of targeting a United States person; or
(2) acquire, monitor, or store the contents (as such term
is defined in section 2510(8) of title 18, United States
Code) of any electronic communication of a United States
person from a provider of electronic communication services
to the public pursuant to section 501 of the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978.
Sec. 8091.  None of the funds made available in this or any
other Act may be used to pay the salary of any officer or
employee of any agency funded by this Act who approves or
implements the transfer of administrative responsibilities or
budgetary resources of any program, project, or activity
financed by this Act to the jurisdiction of another Federal
agency not financed by this Act without the express
authorization of Congress:  Provided, That this limitation
shall not apply to transfers of funds expressly provided for
in Department of Defense Appropriations Acts, or provisions
of Acts providing supplemental appropriations for the
Department of Defense.
Sec. 8092.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act for
``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $769,047,000, to remain
available until expended, may be used for any purposes
related to the National Defense Reserve Fleet established
under section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (46
U.S.C. 57100):  Provided, That such amounts are available for
reimbursements to the Ready Reserve Force, Maritime
Administration account of the United States Department of
Transportation for programs, projects, activities, and
expenses related to the National Defense Reserve Fleet.
Sec. 8093. (a) None of the funds provided in this Act for
the TAO Fleet Oiler program shall be used to award a new
contract that provides for the acquisition of the following
components unless those components are manufactured in the
United States: Auxiliary equipment (including pumps) for
shipboard services; propulsion equipment (including engines,
reduction gears, and propellers); shipboard cranes; spreaders
for shipboard cranes; and anchor chains, specifically for the
seventh and subsequent ships of the fleet.
(b) None of the funds provided in this Act for the FFG(X)
Frigate program shall be used to award a new contract that
provides for the acquisition of the following components
unless those components are manufactured in the United
States: Air circuit breakers; gyrocompasses; electronic
navigation chart systems; steering controls; pumps;
propulsion and machinery control systems; totally enclosed
lifeboats; auxiliary equipment pumps; shipboard cranes;
auxiliary chill water systems; and propulsion propellers:
Provided, That the Secretary of the Navy shall incorporate
United States manufactured propulsion engines and propulsion
reduction gears into the FFG(X) Frigate program beginning not
later than with the eleventh ship of the program.
Sec. 8094.  None of the funds provided in this Act for
requirements development, performance specification
development, concept design and development, ship
configuration development, systems engineering, naval
architecture, marine engineering, operations research
analysis, industry studies, preliminary design, development
of the Detailed Design and Construction Request for Proposals
solicitation package, or related activities for the T-ARC(X)
Cable Laying and Repair Ship or the T-AGOS(X) Oceanographic
Surveillance Ship may be used to award a new contract for
such activities unless these contracts include specifications
that all auxiliary equipment, including pumps and propulsion
shafts, are manufactured in the United States.
Sec. 8095.  No amounts credited or otherwise made available
in this or any other Act to the Department of Defense
Acquisition Workforce Development Account may be transferred
to:
(1) the Rapid Prototyping Fund established under section
804(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2016 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note); or
(2) credited to a military-department specific fund
established under section 804(d)(2) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (as amended by section
897 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2017).
Sec. 8096.  None of the funds made available by this Act
may be used for Government Travel Charge Card expenses by
military or civilian personnel of the Department of Defense
for gaming, or for entertainment that includes topless or
nude entertainers or participants, as prohibited by
Department of Defense Instruction 1015.10 (enclosures 3 and
14b).
Sec. 8097. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such network is designed
to block access to pornography websites.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law
enforcement agency or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication activities, or
for any activity necessary for the national defense,
including intelligence activities.
Sec. 8098.  None of the funds provided for, or otherwise
made available, in this or any other Act, may be obligated or
expended by the Secretary of Defense to provide motorized
vehicles, aviation platforms, munitions other than small arms
and munitions appropriate for customary ceremonial honors,
operational military units, or operational military platforms
if the Secretary determines that providing such units,
platforms, or equipment would undermine the readiness of such
units, platforms, or equipment.
Sec. 8099. (a) None of the funds made available by this or
any other Act may be used to enter into a contract,
memorandum of understanding, or cooperative agreement with,
make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to any
corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that
has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative
remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not
being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with
the authority responsible for collecting such tax liability,
provided that the applicable Federal agency is aware of the
unpaid Federal tax liability.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply if the applicable
Federal agency has considered suspension or debarment of the
corporation described in such subsection and has made a
determination that such suspension or debarment is not
necessary to protect the interests of the Federal Government.
Sec. 8100. (a) Amounts appropriated under title IV of this
Act, as detailed in budget activity eight in the tables
titled Explanation of Project Level Adjustments in the
explanatory statement regarding this Act, may be used for
expenses for the agile research, development, test and
evaluation, procurement, production, modification, and
operation and maintenance, only for the following Software
and Digital Technology Pilot programs--
(1) Defensive CYBER (PE 0608041A);
(2) Risk Management Information (PE 0608013N);
(3) Maritime Tactical Command and Control (PE 0608231N);
(4) Space Domain Awareness/Planning/Tasking SW (PE
1208248SF);
(5) Global Command and Control System (PE 0303150K);
(6) Acquisition Visibility (PE 0608648D8Z); and
(7) Cyber Operations Technology Support (PE 0306250JCY).
(b) None of the funds appropriated by this or prior
Department of Defense Appropriations Acts may be obligated or
expended to initiate additional Software and Digital
Technology Pilot Programs in fiscal year 2025.
Sec. 8101.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to transfer the
National Reconnaissance Office to the Space Force:  Provided,
That nothing in this Act shall be construed to limit or
prohibit cooperation, collaboration, and coordination between
the National Reconnaissance Office and the Space Force or any
other elements of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 8102.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to transfer any
Federal mission, covered member of the National Guard (as
defined in section 1733(g) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-31)),
or covered space function of the National Guard (as defined
in section 924(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-31)), from the National
Guard to the United States Space Force in contravention of
section 104 of title 32, United States Code, or section 18238
of title 10, United States Code.
Sec. 8103.  None of the funds made available in this Act
may be used in contravention of the following laws enacted or
regulations promulgated to implement the United Nations
Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or
Degrading Treatment or Punishment (done at New York on
December 10, 1984):
(1) Section 2340A of title 18, United States Code.
(2) Section 2242 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and
Restructuring Act of 1998 (division G of Public Law 105-277;
112 Stat. 2681-822; 8 U.S.C. 1231 note) and regulations
prescribed thereto, including regulations under part 208 of
title 8, Code of Federal Regulations, and part 95 of title
22, Code of Federal Regulations.
(3) Sections 1002 and 1003 of the Department of Defense,
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations to Address Hurricanes
in the Gulf of Mexico, and Pandemic Influenza Act, 2006
(Public Law 109-148).
Sec. 8104.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to provide arms,
training, intelligence, or other assistance to the Azov
Battalion, the Third Separate Assault Brigade, or any
successor organization.
Sec. 8105.  During the current fiscal year, the Department
of Defense is authorized to incur obligations of not to
exceed $350,000,000 for purposes specified in section
2350j(c) of title 10, United States Code, in anticipation of
receipt of contributions, only from the Government of Kuwait,
under that section:  Provided, That, such contributions
shall, upon receipt, be credited to the appropriations or
fund which incurred such obligations.
Sec. 8106.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under
the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', for
the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, $1,423,630,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2026, shall be available
for International Security Cooperation Programs and other
programs to provide support and assistance to foreign
security forces or other
[[Page H4372]]
groups or individuals to conduct, support or facilitate
counterterrorism, crisis response, or building partner
capacity programs:  Provided, That the Secretary of Defense
shall, not less than 15 days prior to obligating funds made
available in this section, notify the congressional defense
committees in writing of the details of any planned
obligation:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense
shall provide quarterly reports to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate
on the use and status of funds made available in this
section.
Sec. 8107.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under
the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', for
the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, $61,406,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2026, shall be for
payments to reimburse key cooperating nations for logistical,
military, and other support, including access, provided to
United States military and stability operations to counter
the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria:  Provided, That such
reimbursement payments may be made in such amounts as the
Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary
of State, and in consultation with the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget, may determine, based on
documentation determined by the Secretary of Defense to
adequately account for the support provided, and such
determination is final and conclusive upon the accounting
officers of the United States, and 15 days following written
notification to the appropriate congressional committees:
Provided further, That these funds may be used for the
purpose of providing specialized training and procuring
supplies and specialized equipment and providing such
supplies and loaning such equipment on a non-reimbursable
basis to coalition forces supporting United States military
and stability operations to counter the Islamic State of Iraq
and Syria, and 15 days following written notification to the
appropriate congressional committees:  Provided further, That
the Secretary of Defense shall provide quarterly reports to
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate on the use and status of funds
made available in this section.
Sec. 8108.  Of the amounts appropriated in this Act under
the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', for
the Defense Security Cooperation Agency, $380,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2026, shall be available
for support authorized by subparagraphs (A) through (E) of
section 1226(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2016 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note), of which not less
than $150,000,000 shall be for support authorized by
subparagraph (A) of such section:  Provided, That the
Secretary of Defense shall, not less than 15 days prior to
obligating funds made available in this section, notify the
congressional defense committees in writing of the details of
any planned obligation and the nature of the expenses
incurred:  Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense
shall provide quarterly reports to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate
on the use and status of funds made available in this
section.
Sec. 8109.  The Secretary of Defense shall, not less than
15 days prior to taking any action to pause, suspend, or
eliminate assistance to a country made available by this Act
or prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of
Defense, notify the Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate.
Sec. 8110.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used in contravention of
the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.).
Sec. 8111.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act for excess defense articles,
assistance under section 333 of title 10, United States Code,
or peacekeeping operations for the countries designated
annually to be in violation of the standards of the Child
Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-457; 22
U.S.C. 2370c-1) may be used to support any military training
or operation that includes child soldiers, as defined by the
Child Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008, unless such assistance
is otherwise permitted under section 404 of the Child
Soldiers Prevention Act of 2008.
Sec. 8112.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be made available for any
member of Hamas, Hezbollah, the Houthis, or the Taliban.
Sec. 8113.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be made available for the
United Nations Relief and Works Agency.
Sec. 8114.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any
transfer of funds, appropriated or otherwise made available
by this Act, for support to friendly foreign countries in
connection with the conduct of operations in which the United
States is not participating, pursuant to section 331(d) of
title 10, United States Code, shall be made in accordance
with section 8005 of this Act.
Sec. 8115. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this or any other Act may be used by the
Secretary of Defense, or any other official or officer of the
Department of Defense, to enter into a contract, memorandum
of understanding, or cooperative agreement with, or make a
grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to
Rosoboronexport or any subsidiary of Rosoboronexport.
(b) The Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation in
subsection (a) if the Secretary, in consultation with the
Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence,
determines that it is in the vital national security interest
of the United States to do so, and certifies in writing to
the congressional defense committees that--
(1) Rosoboronexport has ceased the transfer of lethal
military equipment to, and the maintenance of existing lethal
military equipment for, the Government of the Syrian Arab
Republic;
(2) the armed forces of the Russian Federation have
withdrawn from Ukraine; and
(3) agents of the Russian Federation have ceased taking
active measures to destabilize the control of the Government
of Ukraine over eastern Ukraine.
(c) The Inspector General of the Department of Defense
shall conduct a review of any action involving
Rosoboronexport with respect to a waiver issued by the
Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (b), and not
later than 90 days after the date on which such a waiver is
issued by the Secretary of Defense, the Inspector General
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report
containing the results of the review conducted with respect
to such waiver.
Sec. 8116.  The Secretary of Defense shall notify the
congressional defense committees in writing not more than 30
days after the receipt of any contribution of funds received
from the government of a foreign country for any purpose
relating to the stationing or operations of the United States
Armed Forces:  Provided, That such notification shall include
the amount of the contribution; the purpose for which such
contribution was made; and the authority under which such
contribution was accepted by the Secretary of Defense:
Provided further, That not fewer than 15 days prior to
obligating such funds, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
to the congressional defense committees in writing a
notification of the planned use of such contributions,
including whether such contributions would support existing
or new stationing or operations of the United States Armed
Forces.
Sec. 8117. (a) The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, in
coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments
and the Chiefs of the Armed Forces, shall submit to the
congressional defense committees, not later than 30 days
after the last day of each quarter of the fiscal year, a
report on the use of operation and maintenance funds for
activities or exercises in excess of $5,000,000 that have
been designated by the Secretary of Defense as unplanned
activities for fiscal year 2025.
(b) Each report required by subsection (a) shall also
include--
(1) the title, date, and location, of each activity and
exercise covered by the report;
(2) an identification of the military department and units
that participated in each such activity or exercise
(including an estimate of the number of participants);
(3) the total cost of the activity or exercise, by budget
line item (with a breakdown by cost element such as
transportation); and
(4) a short explanation of the objective of the activity or
exercise.
(c) The report required by subsection (a) shall be
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified
annex.
Sec. 8118.  Concurrent with any exercise of the drawdown
authority provided by Section 506 of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2318), the Secretary of Defense shall
submit a written report to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Senate that contains
a description of the defense articles and defense services to
be furnished, including the quantity, approximate value, and
a timeline for the delivery of such defense articles and
defense services, as well as an estimate of the cost to
replace such article or an equivalent capability.
Sec. 8119.  Not later than 15 days after the date on which
any foreign base that involves the stationing or operations
of the United States Armed Forces, including a temporary
base, permanent base, or base owned and operated by a foreign
country, is opened or closed, the Secretary of Defense shall
notify the congressional defense committees in writing of the
opening or closing of such base:  Provided, That such
notification shall also include information on any personnel
changes, costs, and savings associated with the opening or
closing of such base.
Sec. 8120.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this or any other Act shall be obligated or
expended by the United States Government for any of the
following purposes:
(1) To establish any military installation or base for the
purpose of providing for the permanent stationing of United
States Armed Forces in Iraq.
(2) To exercise United States control over any oil resource
of Iraq or Syria.
Sec. 8121.  Up to $500,000,000 of the funds appropriated by
this Act under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance,
Defense-Wide'' for the Defense Security Cooperation Agency
may be used to support the armed forces of Jordan.
Sec. 8122.  Not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, United States Southern Command shall
assume combatant command responsibility for activities
related to Mexico.
Sec. 8123.  The total amount appropriated or otherwise made
available in title II of this Act is hereby reduced by
$500,000,000 to limit excessive growth in the procurement of
advisory and assistance services, as follows:
``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $138,000,000;
``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $68,000,000;
``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', $52,000,000;
``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', $77,000,000;
``Operation and Maintenance, Space Force'', $9,500,000;
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', $143,000,000;
and
``Operation and Maintenance, Army National Guard'',
$12,500,000:
Provided, That this section shall not apply to
appropriations for the National Intelligence Program and
Military Intelligence Program.
[[Page H4373]]
Sec. 8124.  The total amount appropriated or otherwise made
available in title II of this Act is hereby reduced by
$100,000,000 to reflect savings attributable to efficiencies
and management improvements in the funding of miscellaneous
or other contracts in the military departments, as follows:
``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $21,000,000;
``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $25,000,000;
``Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps'', $3,500,000;
``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'', $22,000,000;
``Operation and Maintenance, Space Force'', $1,700,000; and
``Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide'', $26,800,000:
Provided, That this section shall not apply to
appropriations for the National Intelligence Program and
Military Intelligence Program.
Sec. 8125.  The amounts appropriated in title II of this
Act are hereby reduced by $300,000,000 to reflect excess cash
balances in Department of Defense Working Capital Funds, as
follows:
(1) From ``Operation and Maintenance, Army'', $150,000,000;
and
(2) From ``Operation and Maintenance, Navy'', $150,000,000.
Sec. 8126.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Act, to reflect savings due to favorable foreign exchange
rates, the total amount appropriated in this Act is hereby
reduced by $250,000,000.
Sec. 8127. (a) Within 45 days of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense shall allocate amounts made available
from the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce
Semiconductors (CHIPS) for America Defense Fund for fiscal
year 2025 pursuant to the transfer authority in section
102(b)(1) of the CHIPS Act of 2022 (division A of Public Law
117-167), to the account specified, in the amounts specified,
and for the projects and activities specified, in the table
titled ``Department of Defense Allocation of Funds: CHIPS and
Science Act Fiscal Year 2025'' in the explanatory statement
regarding this Act.
(b) Neither the President nor his designee may allocate any
amounts that are made available for any fiscal year under
section 102(b)(2) of the CHIPS Act of 2022 if there is in
effect an Act making or continuing appropriations for part of
a fiscal year for the Department of Defense:  Provided, That
in any fiscal year, the matter preceding this proviso shall
not apply to the allocation, apportionment, or allotment of
amounts for continuing administration of programs allocated
using funds transferred from the CHIPS for America Defense
Fund, which may be allocated pursuant to the transfer
authority in section 102(b)(1) of the CHIPS Act of 2022 only
in amounts that are no more than the allocation for such
purposes in subsection (a) of this section.
(c) The Secretary of Defense may reallocate funds allocated
by subsection (a) of this section, subject to the terms and
conditions contained in the provisos in section 8005 of this
Act:  Provided, That amounts may be reallocated pursuant to
this subsection only for those requirements necessary to
carry out section 9903(b) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021
(Public Law 116-283).
(d) Concurrent with the annual budget submission of the
President for fiscal year 2026, the Secretary of Defense
shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate proposed allocations by
account and by program, project, or activity, with detailed
justifications, for amounts made available under section
102(b)(2) of the CHIPS Act of 2022 for fiscal year 2026.
(e) The Department of Defense shall provide the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate
quarterly reports on the status of balances of projects and
activities funded by the CHIPS for America Defense Fund for
amounts allocated pursuant to subsection (a) of this section,
including all uncommitted, committed, and unobligated funds.
Sec. 8128.  In carrying out the program described in the
memorandum on the subject of ``Policy for Assisted
Reproductive Services for the Benefit of Seriously or
Severely Ill/Injured (Category II or III) Active Duty Service
Members'' issued by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Health Affairs on April 3, 2012, and the guidance issued to
implement such memorandum, the Secretary of Defense shall
apply such policy and guidance, except that--
(1) the limitation on periods regarding embryo
cryopreservation and storage set forth in part III(G) and in
part IV(H) of such memorandum shall not apply; and
(2) the term ``assisted reproductive technology'' shall
include embryo cryopreservation and storage without
limitation on the duration of such cryopreservation and
storage.
Sec. 8129.  The Secretary of Defense may obligate funds
made available in this Act for procurement or for research,
development, test and evaluation for the F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter to modify up to six F-35 aircraft, including up to
two F-35 aircraft of each variant, to a test configuration:
Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall, with the
concurrence of the Secretary of the Air Force and the
Secretary of the Navy, notify the congressional defense
committees not fewer than 30 days prior to obligating funds
under this section:  Provided further, That any transfer of
funds pursuant to the authority provided in this section
shall be made in accordance with section 8005 of this Act.
Sec. 8130.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this or any other Act may be obligated to
integrate an alternative engine on any F-35 aircraft.
Sec. 8131.  The Secretary of Defense may use up to
$650,000,000 of the amounts appropriated or otherwise made
available in this Act to the Department of Defense for the
rapid acquisition and deployment of supplies and associated
support services pursuant to section 3601 of title 10, United
States Code, but only for the purposes specified in clauses
(i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of subsection (c)(3)(B) of such
section and subject to the applicable limits specified in
clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of such subsection and, in the
case of clause (iv) of such subsection, subject to a limit of
$50,000,000, or for the purposes specified in section 229 of
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2024
(Public Law 118-31) and subject to a limit of $100,000,000:
Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the
congressional defense committees promptly of all uses of this
authority.
Sec. 8132.  There is appropriated to the ``Department of
Defense Credit Program Account'' established pursuant to
section 903(b)(5) of the National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2024 (Public Law 118-31), $89,049,000, to
remain available until expended, for the cost of loans and
loan guarantees pursuant to section 903(b) of such Act for a
pilot program on capital assistance to support defense
investment in the industrial base, of which up to $7,900,000
may be used for administrative expenses to carry out the
capital assistance and technical assistance programs
authorized by such section:  Provided, That such costs,
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974:  Provided further, That such amounts are available to
subsidize gross obligations for the principal amount of
direct loans, and total loan principal, any part of which is
to be guaranteed, not to exceed $8,000,000,000: Provided
further, That the Secretary of Defense may assess
administrative fees to recover all, or a portion, of the
costs to administer loan and loan guarantees authorized under
such section 903(b), and may credit fee receipts to the
Department of Defense Credit Program Account, to be available
until expended to cover such expenses:  Provided further,
That, for the purposes of carrying out the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, the Director of the Congressional Budget
Office may request, and the Secretary shall promptly provide,
documentation and information relating to a project
identified by the Department of Defense pursuant to a Notice
of Funding Availability for applications for credit
assistance under such section 903(b).
Sec. 8133.  Notwithstanding section 8055 of this Act,
amounts appropriated under the heading ``Research,
Development, Test and Evaluation, Defense-Wide'' of this Act,
as detailed in budget activity eight in the tables titled
Explanation of Project Level Adjustments in the explanatory
statement regarding this Act for ``Defense Innovation Unit
(DIU) Fielding'' line 294A, that exceed the amounts requested
may be used for expenses for agile research, development,
test and evaluation, procurement, production, modification,
and operation and maintenance requirements, including the
initial acquisition of end-items for operational use:
Provided, That none of these funds may be obligated or
expended until 15 days after the Secretary of Defense
provides the Committees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate a detailed execution plan for
such funds.
Sec. 8134.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to support, directly
or indirectly, the Wuhan Institute of Virology, or any
laboratory owned or controlled by the governments of the
People's Republic of China, the Republic of Cuba, the Islamic
Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea,
the Russian Federation, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
under the Maduro regime, or any other country determined by
the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the
Secretary of State, to be a foreign adversary.
Sec. 8135.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to fund any work to be
performed by EcoHealth Alliance, Inc.
Sec. 8136.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available in this or any other Act may be used to
transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release to or
within the United States, its territories, or possessions
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other detainee who--
(1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed
Forces of the United States; and
(2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at United
States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department
of Defense.
Sec. 8137.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available in this Act may be used to transfer any
individual detained at United States Naval Station Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, to the custody or control of the individual's
country of origin, any other foreign country, or any other
foreign entity except in accordance with section 1034 of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016
(Public Law 114-92) and section 1035 of the John S. McCain
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019
(Public Law 115-232).
Sec. 8138. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available in this or any other Act may be used to
construct, acquire, or modify any facility in the United
States, its territories, or possessions to house any
individual described in subsection (c) for the purposes of
detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the
effective control of the Department of Defense.
(b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to
any modification of facilities at United States Naval
Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
(c) An individual described in this subsection is any
individual who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United
States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
(1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of
the Armed Forces of the United States; and
(2) is--
(A) in the custody or under the effective control of the
Department of Defense; or
[[Page H4374]]
(B) otherwise under detention at United States Naval
Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 8139.  None of the funds made available by this Act
may be used to carry out the closure or realignment of the
United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 8140.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be made available to remove a
Chinese military company from the list required by section
1260H of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283), except in accordance with
subsection (b)(3) of such section and 15 days following
written notification to the congressional defense committees.
Sec. 8141.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to enforce any COVID-
19 mask mandates.
Sec. 8142.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to require a member of
the Armed Forces or a civilian employee of the Department of
Defense to receive a vaccination against COVID-19.
Sec. 8143.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to require vaccination
against COVID-19 as a prerequisite for student attendance at
a Department of Defense Education Activity school.
Sec. 8144.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used, with regards to a
member of the Armed Forces with a minor dependent child
enrolled in an Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP)--
(1) to provide gender transition procedures, including
surgery or medication, to such child through such EFMP;
(2) to provide a referral for a procedure described in
paragraph (1) to such child through such EFMP; or
(3) to approve a change of duty station for such member
through such EFMP for the purpose of providing such child
with access to procedures described in paragraph (1).
Sec. 8145. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 7 of
title 1, United States Code, section 1738C of title 28,
United States Code, or any other provision of law, none of
the funds provided by this Act, or previous appropriations
Acts, shall be used in whole or in part to take any
discriminatory action against a person, wholly or partially,
on the basis that such person speaks, or acts, in accordance
with a sincerely held religious belief, or moral conviction,
that marriage is, or should be recognized as, a union of one
man and one woman.
(b) Discriminatory Action Defined.--As used in subsection
(a), a discriminatory action means any action taken by the
Federal Government to--
(1) alter in any way the Federal tax treatment of, or cause
any tax, penalty, or payment to be assessed against, or deny,
delay, or revoke an exemption from taxation under section
501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 of, any person
referred to in subsection (a);
(2) disallow a deduction for Federal tax purposes of any
charitable contribution made to or by such person;
(3) withhold, reduce the amount or funding for, exclude,
terminate, or otherwise make unavailable or deny, any Federal
grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement,
guarantee, loan, scholarship, license, certification,
accreditation, employment, or other similar position or
status from or to such person;
(4) withhold, reduce, exclude, terminate, or otherwise make
unavailable or deny, any entitlement or benefit under a
Federal benefit program, including admission to, equal
treatment in, or eligibility for a degree from an educational
program, from or to such person; or
(5) withhold, reduce, exclude, terminate, or otherwise make
unavailable or deny access or an entitlement to Federal
property, facilities, educational institutions, speech fora
(including traditional, limited, and nonpublic fora), or
charitable fundraising campaigns from or to such person.
(c) Accreditation; Licensure; Certification.--The Federal
Government shall consider accredited, licensed, or certified
for purposes of Federal law any person that would be
accredited, licensed, or certified, respectively, for such
purposes but for a determination against such person wholly
or partially on the basis that the person speaks, or acts, in
accordance with a sincerely held religious belief or moral
conviction described in subsection (a).
Sec. 8146.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to grant, renew, or
maintain a security clearance for any individual listed as a
signatory in the statement titled ``Public Statement on the
Hunter Biden Emails'' dated October 19, 2020.
Sec. 8147.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to--
(1) classify or facilitate the classification of any
communications by a United States person as mis-, dis-, or
mal- information; or
(2) partner with or fund nonprofit or other organizations
that pressure or recommend private companies to censor lawful
and constitutionally protected speech of United States
persons, including recommending the censoring or removal of
content on social media platforms.
Sec. 8148.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to carry out any
program, project, or activity that promotes or advances
Critical Race Theory, any concept associated with Critical
Race Theory, or that teaches or trains any idea or concept
that condones an individual being discriminated against or
receiving adverse or beneficial treatment based on race or
sex, that condones an individual feeling discomfort, guilt,
anguish, or any other form of psychological distress on
account of that individual's race or sex, as well as any idea
or concept that regards one race as inherently superior to
another race, the United States or its institutions as being
systemically racist or sexist, an individual as being
inherently racist, sexist, or oppressive by virtue of that
individual's race or sex, an individual's moral character as
being necessarily determined by race or sex, an individual as
bearing responsibility for actions committed in the past by
other members of the same race or sex, or meritocracy being
racist, sexist, or having been created by a particular race
to oppress another race.
Sec. 8149.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to finalize,
promulgate, or implement the rule proposed by the Department
of Defense titled ``Federal Acquisition Regulation:
Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Climate-Related
Financial Risk'' (87 Fed. Reg. 68312; November 14, 2022), or
to propose, promulgate, or implement any substantially
similar rule or policy.
Sec. 8150.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act shall be used to implement,
administer, or otherwise carry out the Department of Defense
memorandum dated October 20, 2022, or any successor to such
memorandum, or to propose, promulgate, or implement any
substantially similar rule or policy.
Sec. 8151.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used or transferred to
another Federal agency, board, or commission to recruit,
hire, or promote any person who has been convicted of a
Federal or State child pornography charge, has been convicted
of any other Federal or State sexual assault charge, or has
been formally disciplined for using Federal resources to
access, use, or sell child pornography.
Sec. 8152.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to promote, host,
facilitate, or support events on United States military
installations or as part of military recruiting programs that
violate the Department of Defense Joint Ethics Regulation or
bring discredit upon the military, such as a drag queen story
hour for children or the use of drag queens as military
recruiters.
Sec. 8153.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used for surgical
procedures or hormone therapies for the purposes of gender
affirming care.
Sec. 8154.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to carry out section
147 of title 10, United States Code, and sections 554(a) and
913(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2021 (Public Law 116-283).
Sec. 8155.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to implement,
administer, apply, enforce, or carry out the Diversity,
Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility Strategic Plan of the
Department of Defense, or Executive Order 13985 of January
20, 2021 (86 Fed. Reg. 7009, relating to advancing racial
equity and support for under-served communities through the
Federal Government), Executive Order 14035 of June 25, 2021
(86 Fed. Reg. 34593, relating to diversity, equity,
inclusion, and accessibility in the Federal workforce),
Executive Order 14091 of February 16, 2023 (88 Fed. Reg.
10825, relating to further advancing racial equity and
support for underserved communities through the Federal
government), or shall be used to execute activities that
promote or perpetuate divisive concepts related to race or
sex, such as the concepts that one race or sex is inherently
superior to another, or that an individual's moral character
or worth is determined by their race or sex.
Sec. 8156.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to pay for the costs
of teleworking or remote working for any employee or
contractor of the Department of Defense on a regular and
recurring basis.
Sec. 8157.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to provide assistance
to the Department of Homeland Security to house persons on a
military installation located in the United States.
Sec. 8158.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used for any office of
diversity, equity, or inclusion.
Sec. 8159.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be made available to NewsGuard
Technologies Inc.
Sec. 8160.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to implement any of
the following executive orders:
(1) Executive Order No. 13990, relating to Protecting
Public Health and the Environment and Restoring Science To
Tackle the Climate Crisis.
(2) Executive Order No. 14008, relating to Tackling the
Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad.
(3) Section 6 of Executive Order No. 14013, relating to
Rebuilding and Enhancing Programs To Resettle Refugees and
Planning for the Impact of Climate Change on Migration.
(4) Executive Order No. 14030, relating to Climate-Related
Financial Risk.
(5) Executive Order No. 14057, relating to Catalyzing Clean
Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal Sustainability.
(6) Executive Order No. 14082, relating to Implementation
of the Energy and Infrastructure Provisions of the Inflation
Reduction Act of 2022.
(7) Executive Order No. 14096, relating to Revitalizing Our
Nation's Commitment to Environmental Justice for All.
Sec. 8161.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used in contravention of
Department of Defense Instruction 3216.01, ``Use of Animals
in DoD Conducted and Supported Research and Training'', dated
March 20, 2019.
Sec. 8162.  From amounts appropriated or otherwise made
available by title II of this Act
[[Page H4375]]
under the heading ``Operation and Maintenance, Air Force'',
the Secretary of Defense may reimburse the Federated States
of Micronesia in an amount not to exceed $34,000,000 for land
acquisition costs for defense sites in Yap: Provided, That
the Secretary shall, not less than 15 days prior to making
such reimbursement, notify the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Senate in writing of
the details of any proposed reimbursement.
Sec. 8163.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to divest or prepare
to divest any U-2 aircraft.
Sec. 8164.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used to divest or prepare
to divest any F-15 aircraft unless the Secretary of Defense
certifies to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate that such aircraft will be
replaced in a manner that maintains the current total
aircraft assigned at a given unit and the readiness of such
unit.
(including transfer of funds)
Sec. 8165.  The Secretary of Defense may transfer funds
from any available Department of the Navy appropriation
(except military construction) to any available Navy ship
construction appropriation for the purpose of liquidating
necessary changes resulting from inflation, market
fluctuations, or rate adjustments for any ship construction
program appropriated in law: Provided, That the Secretary may
transfer not to exceed $20,000,000 under the authority
provided by this section: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall, not less than 30 days prior to the transfer
of any funds, notify the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate in writing of the
details of any proposed transfer: Provided further, That any
funds transferred pursuant to this section shall retain the
same period of availability as when originally appropriated:
Provided further, That the transfer authority provided under
this section is in addition to any other transfer authority
provided elsewhere in this Act.
Sec. 8166. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be made available to withhold,
halt, reverse, or cancel the delivery of defense articles or
defense services from the United States to Israel.
(b) Any defense article and defense service withheld from
delivery to Israel by the Department of Defense as of the
date of the enactment of this Act shall be delivered to
Israel not later than 15 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
Secretary of Defense shall obligate any remaining unobligated
balances of funds appropriated or otherwise made available
before the date of the enactment of this Act for the
Department of Defense for assistance for Israel not later
than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
Sec. 8167.  None of the funds made available by this Act or
any other Act may be made available for--
(1) The Joint Logistics Over-the-Shore capabilities in the
vicinity of Gaza; or
(2) The construction, assembly, maintenance, or operation,
of any pier, dock, landing, wharf, or any other structure in
the vicinity of Gaza.
Sec. 8168.  None of the funds made available by this Act or
any other Act may be used for hiring practices based on
gender, religion, political affiliation, or race.
Sec. 8169.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise
made available by this Act may be used in contravention of
section 1052 of the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2024.
spending reduction account
Sec. 8170.  $0.
This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Defense
Appropriations Act, 2025''.
The Acting CHAIR. No further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall
be in order except those printed in part A of House Report 118-559,
amendments en bloc described in section 3 of House Resolution 1316, and
pro forma amendments described in section 4 of that resolution.
Each further amendment printed in part A of the report shall be
considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only
by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read,
shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject
to amendment except as provided by section 4 of House Resolution 1316,
and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question.
It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on
Appropriations or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting
of further amendments printed in part A of House Report 118-559 not
earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered pursuant to section 3
of House Resolution 1316 shall be considered as read, shall be
debatable for 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their
respective designees, shall not be subject to amendment except as
described in section 4 of House Resolution 1316, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the question.
During consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair and ranking
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their respective
designees may offer up to 10 pro forma amendments each at any point for
the purpose of debate.
Amendments En Bloc No. 1 Offered by Mr. Calvert of California
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, pursuant to House Resolution 1316, I offer
amendments en bloc.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
Amendments en bloc No. 1 consisting of amendment Nos. 3, 6, 14, 18,
28, 31, 34, 42, 43, 44, 59, 75, 76, 80, 88, 89, 93, 95, 98, 99, 102,
104, 117, 119, 124, 125, 131, 134, 141, 143, 144, 146, 149, 155, 160,
161, 162, 182, 184, 185, 186, and 189, printed in part A of House
Report 118-559, offered by Mr. Calvert of California:
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. AMO OF RHODE ISLAND
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $8,000,000) (reduced by $8,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. BACON OF NEBRASKA
Page 9, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 14 OFFERED BY MR. BILIRAKIS OF FLORIDA
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $4,500,000) (increased by $4,500,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 18 OFFERED BY MR. BUCHANAN OF FLORIDA
Page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 28 Offered by Ms. Castor of Florida
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 31 Offered by Mr. Cohen of Tennessee
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $8,000,000) (increased by $8,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 34 Offered by Mr. Davis of North Carolina
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $8,000,000) (increased by $8,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 42 Offered by Mr. Fallon of Texas
Page 27, line 7, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $25,000,000) (increased by $25,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 43 Offered by Mr. Fallon of Texas
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $26,000,000) (increased by $26,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 44 Offered by Mr. Feenstra of Iowa
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 59 Offered by Mr. Hern of Oklahoma
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 75 Offered by Mr. Keating of Massachusetts
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 76 Offered by Mr. Kelly of Mississippi
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 80 Offered by Mrs. Kiggans of Virginia
Page 9, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 88 Offered by Mr. LaLota of New York
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 89 Offered by Mr. LaLota of New York
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 93 Offered by Mr. Lamborn of Colorado
Page 39, line 19, after the first dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $20,000,000)(increased by $20,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 95 Offered by Mr. Landsman of Ohio
Page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)(reduced by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 98 Offered by Mr. Lawler of New York
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 99 Offered by Ms. Letlow of Louisiana
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
[[Page H4376]]
Amendment no. 102 Offered by Ms. Letlow of Louisiana
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $12,000,000) (increased by $12,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 104 Offered by Mr. Luttrell of Texas
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 117 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $8,500,000) (increased by $8,500,000)''.
Amendment no. 119 Offered by Mr. Miller of Ohio
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 124 OFFERED BY MR. MILLS OF FLORIDA
Page 38, line 9, after the first dollar amount, insert
``(decreased by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 125 OFFERED BY MR. MOLINARO OF NEW YORK
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 131 OFFERED BY MR. MOYLAN OF GUAM
Page 36, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $800,000) (increased by $800,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 134 OFFERED BY MS. NORTON OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $4,500,000) (reduced by $4,500,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 141 OFFERED BY MR. OGLES OF TENNESSEE
Page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 143 OFFERED BY MR. PENCE OF INDIANA
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 144 OFFERED BY MR. PETERS OF CALIFORNIA
Page 24, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $5,800,000) (increased by $5,800,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 146 OFFERED BY MR. PFLUGER OF TEXAS
Page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 149 OFFERED BY MR. AUSTIN SCOTT OF GEORGIA
Page 8, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 155 OFFERED BY MR. STEIL OF WISCONSIN
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 160 OFFERED BY MR. STRONG OF ALABAMA
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 161 OFFERED BY MR. STRONG OF ALABAMA
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 162 OFFERED BY MR. STRONG OF ALABAMA
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 182 OFFERED BY MR. WENSTRUP OF OHIO
Page 38, line 9, after the first dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $63,000,000) (increased by $63,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 184 OFFERED BY MR. WILLIAMS OF NEW YORK
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $4,500,000) (reduced by $4,500,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 185 OFFERED BY MR. WILSON OF SOUTH CAROLINA
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 186 OFFERED BY MR. WILSON OF SOUTH CAROLINA
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 189 OFFERED BY MR. WILSON OF SOUTH CAROLINA
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $15,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $15,000,000)''.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 1316, the gentleman
from California (Mr. Calvert) and the gentlewoman from Minnesota (Ms.
McCollum) each will control 10 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, these are noncontroversial messaging
amendments supported by both sides. I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I also support this amendment. As was
stated, it contains a series of bipartisan amendments that are
supported by Members on both sides. I have no objection and encourage
the adoption of this amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr. Amo).
Mr. AMO. Mr. Chair, I hail from Rhode Island, the Ocean State. We
know a thing or two about the sea and protecting our national security.
Unmanned undersea vehicles, or underwater drones, have become an
increasingly important tool in our national security arsenal. This
technology plays a critical role in Ukraine's counterattacks against
Russia's naval aggression and helps allies monitor activity throughout
the Indo-Pacific. Underwater drones allow our Navy to conduct dangerous
and covert missions without putting American lives directly at risk.
As we look at our naval inventory, it is clear that the United States
needs more underwater drones. We need them quickly, and we need them
affordably.
My amendment in this en bloc encourages the development of additive
manufacturing of underwater drones.
My other amendment that will be considered later encourages the
development and enhancement of the payload capabilities of underwater
drones. Our Ocean State is doing excellent work to train workers,
develop technology, and produce many of our underwater drones.
I am proud to lead these amendments that will support good-paying
jobs in Rhode Island and advance our national security.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I have no other speakers, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I urge adoption of the package, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of my bipartisan
Amendment No. 143, included in En Bloc 1.
I would first like to thank my colleagues, Representatives Carson,
Mrvan, and Donalds for cosponsoring this important amendment. It will
provide additional funds, fully offset, for reducing critical risk and
bolstering the power-producing capacity of the DoD's Transportable
Microreactor program, which is set to deliver the nation's first
advanced reactor into operation through Project PELE.
Transportable nuclear technology, offering uninterrupted mission
power in remote and strategically important locations, will not only
strengthen operational resilience--it will save lives. As we learned in
Iraq and Afghanistan, the necessity of hauling fuel into combat areas
comes at a tremendous price.
Able to operate for years without refueling, transportable reactors
can untether America's warfighter and ensure credible operational
resilience.
I am thrilled that Rolls-Royce LibertyWorks in Indianapolis, Indiana
is providing the Power Conversion Module and Heat Exchange Module for
Project PELE and for the hundreds of Hoosier jobs this project
supports.
I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bipartisan En Bloc and
support the underlying Defense Appropriations Bill.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Pfluger). The question is on the amendments en
bloc offered by the gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert).
The en bloc amendments were agreed to.
Amendments En Bloc No. 2 Offered by Mr. Calvert of California
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, pursuant to House Resolution 1316, I offer
amendments en bloc.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
Amendments en bloc No. 2 consisting of amendment Nos. 2, 7, 10, 23,
26, 27, 30, 45, 48, 54, 60, 67, 77, 81, 82, 86, 90, 91, 100, 101, 110,
118, 120, 122, 132, 135, 142, 145, 151, 153, 156, 157, 158, 159, 169,
180, 183, 187, 188, and 190, printed in part A of House Report 118-559,
offered by Mr. Calvert of California:
Amendment no. 2 Offered by Mr. Amo of Rhode Island
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $3,000,000) (reduced by $3,000,000)''.
[[Page H4377]]
Amendment no. 7 Offered by Mr. Bacon of Nebraska
Page 33, line 7, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $2,000,000) (reduced by $2,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 10 Offered by Mr. Banks of Indiana
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 23 Offered by Mr. Carey of Ohio
Page 35, line 5, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $2,300,000) (reduced by $2,300,000)''.
Amendment no. 26 Offered by Mr. Carter of Georgia
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert the
following: ``(reduced by $4,500,000)''.
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert the
following: ``(increased by $4,500,000)''.
Amendment no. 27 Offered by Ms. Castor of Florida
Page 16, line 17, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 30 OFFERED BY MR. COHEN OF TENNESSEE
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $8,000,000) (increased by $8,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 45 OFFERED BY MR. FINSTAD OF MINNESOTA
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $2,000,000) (increased by $2,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 48 OFFERED BY MR. FINSTAD OF MINNESOTA
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 54 OFFERED BY MR. GIMENEZ OF FLORIDA
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 60 OFFERED BY MR. HIGGINS OF LOUISIANA
Page 31, line 24, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $19,440,000) (reduced by $19,440,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 67 OFFERED BY MR. JACKSON OF TEXAS
Page 38, line 16, after the first dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 77 Offered by Mr. Kelly of Mississippi
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $2,500,000) (reduced by $2,500,000)''.
Amendment no. 81 Offered by Mrs. Kiggans of Virginia
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 82 Offered by Mrs. Kiggans of Virginia
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $9,000,0000) (increased by $9,000,0000)''.
Amendment no. 86 Offered by Mrs. Kiggans of Virginia
Page 8, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 90 Offered by Mr. LaLota of New York
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 91 Offered by Mr. LaLota of New York
Page 29, line 23, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 100 Offered by Ms. Letlow of Louisiana
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $19,000,000) (increased by $19,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 101 Offered by Ms. Letlow of Louisiana
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 110 Offered by Mr. McCormick of Georgia
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 118 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $11,000,000) (increased by $11,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 120 Offered by Mrs. Miller of West Virginia
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $25,000,000) (increased by $25,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 122 Offered by Mr. Mills of Florida
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)' ''.
Amendment no. 132 Offered by Mrs. Napolitano of California
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $37,411,000) (decreased by $37,411,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 135 OFFERED BY MS. NORTON OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $8,000,000) (reduced by $8,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 142 OFFERED BY MR. OGLES OF TENNESSEE
Page 117, line 12, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 145 OFFERED BY MS. PETTERSEN OF COLORADO
Page 39, line 1, after the first dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 151 OFFERED BY MS. SEWELL OF ALABAMA
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 153 OFFERED BY MR. SOTO OF FLORIDA
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $10,800,000) (increased by $10,800,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 156 OFFERED BY MR. STEIL OF WISCONSIN
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 157 Offered by Mr. Steil of Wisconsin
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $12,000,000) (increased by $12,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 158 Offered by Mr. Strong of Alabama
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 159 Offered by Mr. Strong of Alabama
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 169 Offered by Mr. Timmons of South Carolina
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000) (increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 180 Offered by Mr. Waltz of Florida
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000) (reduced by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 183 Offered by Mr. Williams of New York
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $3,000,000) (reduced by $3,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 187 Offered by Mr. Wilson of South Carolina
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 188 Offered by Mr. Wilson of South Carolina
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 190 Offered by Mr. Wilson of South Carolina
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 1316, the gentleman
from California (Mr. Calvert) and the gentlewoman from Minnesota (Ms.
McCollum) each will control 10 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, these are noncontroversial, bipartisan
messaging amendments supported by both sides. I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I support this amendment.
As with the other one, it contains a series of bipartisan amendments
that are supported by Members on both sides.
Mr. Chair, I encourage the adoption of this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I urge adoption of the package, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Chair, I appreciate consideration of my amendment No.
153 to provide an $10.8 million increase within the RDT&E-Defense Wide
Account for the Industrial Base Analysis and Sustainment Program's
(IBAS) advanced packaging infrastructure enablement of standardized
assembly design kits program. This program will support innovative
semiconductor manufacturing processes critical to national security.
Semiconductors support nearly all Department of Defense (DoD)
activities. Ensuring secure access to leading-edge semiconductors,
however, is a challenge.
The IBAS Program ensures that the DoD is positioned to effectively
address industrial base issues and support the National Security
[[Page H4378]]
Innovation Base. Its mission includes strengthening and protecting the
domestic semiconductor supply chain to provide access to leading-edge
products and capabilities. One of the next-generation semiconductor
technologies that IBAS is focusing on is advanced packaging.
Advanced packaging is an innovative semiconductor manufacturing
process that fully integrates all component chips into a single, highly
functional chip. Currently, 98 percent of advanced packaging integrated
processes are done in Asia, where foreign entities can insert malicious
processes in a way that is not easily identifiable. IBAS is working to
provide secure, credible, and reliable domestic advanced packaged
semiconductor manufacturing capability.
The design, fabrication, and packaging of leading-edge advanced
package chips are becoming substantially more complex. To manage this
complexity and ensure compatibility across different systems,
standardized assembly design kits are essential. These kits provide a
set of design rules and guidelines that streamline the manufacturing
process. By establishing a uniform framework, standardized kits enable
faster development and deployment of advanced packaging technologies,
which is critical for meeting the DoD's high-performance and security
standards. My amendment will allow the Department of Defense to
leverage existing public-private partnerships to quickly expand
domestic U.S.-based semiconductor manufacturing development platforms
for critical advanced semiconductor system integration, including
through the enablement of standardized design kits.
U.S. global leadership in semiconductors depends on U.S. owned firms
operating at the leading edge of advanced packaging technologies. The
next generation of electronic devices will require significantly
greater functional density, in other words, packing chips together even
more tightly than current technology allows. This requires technical
leadership in semiconductor advanced packaging processes, including the
enablement of standardized assembly kits.
I believe Congress should continue to allocate the necessary
resources to update our domestic microelectronics security framework. I
am proud of the work being done in NeoCity, my district's semiconductor
technology hub, to advance domestic semiconductor manufacturing
technology. This development is vital to strengthening our defense
supply chain. I look forward to working with my colleagues to support
this critical goal.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered
by the gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert).
The en bloc amendments were agreed to.
Amendments En Bloc No. 3 Offered by Mr. Calvert of California
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, pursuant to House Resolution 1316, I offer
amendments en bloc.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
Amendments en bloc No. 3 consisting of amendment Nos. 1, 4, 5, 12,
16, 17, 21, 22, 24, 35, 37, 41, 49, 51, 65, 69, 70, 74, 78, 83, 97,
106, 112, 114, 123, 137, 138, 148, 150, 152, 154, 166, 168, 172, 173,
174, 175, 177, 178, 179, and 193, printed in part A of House Report
118-559, offered by Mr. Calvert of California:
Amendment No. 1 Offered by Mr. Alford of Missouri
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 4 Offered by Mr. Armstrong of North Dakota
Page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $7,500,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $7,500,000)''.
Amendment No. 5 Offered by Mr. Bacon of Nebraska
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $16,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $16,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 12 Offered by Mr. Bergman of Michigan
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 16 Offered by Mr. Bost of Illinois
Page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $9,500,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $9,500,000)''.
Amendment No. 17 Offered by Mr. Buchanan of Florida
Page 8, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $1,000,000)''.
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $1,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 21 Offered by Mrs. Cammack of Florida
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $8,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $8,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 22 Offered by Mr. Carbajal of California
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $2,500,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $2,500,000)''.
Amendment No. 24 Offered by Mr. Carl of Alabama
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 35 Offered by Mr. Dunn of Florida
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $7,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $7,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 37 Offered by Mr. Dunn of Florida
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $6,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $6,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 41 Offered by Mr. Ezell of Mississippi
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 49 Offered by Mr. Fitzgerald of Wisconsin
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 51 Offered by Mr. Fong of California
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $4,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $4,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 65 Offered by Mr. Hudson of North Carolina
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 32, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 69 Offered by Mr. James of Michigan
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 70 Offered by Mr. James of Michigan
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $12,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $12,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 74 Offered by Mr. Keating of Massachusetts
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 78 Offered by Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 83 Offered by Mrs. Kiggans of Virginia
Page 8, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $2,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $2,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 97 Offered by Mr. Langworthy of New york
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 106 Offered by Mr. Luttrell of Texas
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $21,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $21,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 112 Offered by Mr. McCormick of Georgia
Page 9, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $8,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $8,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 114 Offered by Mr. McCormick of Georgia
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $7,700,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $7,700,000)''.
Amendment No. 123 Offered by Mr. Mills of Florida
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $6,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $6,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 137 Offered by Mr. Obernolte of California
Page 36, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 138 Offered by Mr. Obernolte of California
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $4,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $4,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 148 Offered by Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia
Page 9, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduce
by $2,500,000)''.
[[Page H4379]]
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $2,500,000)''.
Amendment No. 150 Offered by Mr. Sessions of Texas
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 152 Offered by Mr. Sorensen of Illinois
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 154 Offered by Mrs. Steel of California
Page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $7,000,000)''.
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $7,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 166 Offered by Ms. Tenney of New York
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $15,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $15,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 168 Offered by Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania
Page 10, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert the
following: ``(increased by $32,262,000)''.
Amendment No. 172 Offered by Mrs. Trahan of Massachusetts
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 173 Offered by Mrs. Trahan of Massachusetts
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 174 Offered by Mr. Turner of Ohio
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 175 Offered by Mr. Turner of Ohio
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $7,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $7,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 177 Offered by Mr. Van Drew of New Jersey
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert the
following: ``(reduced by $1,000,0000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert the
following: ``(increased by $1,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 178 Offered by Ms. Van Duyne of Texas
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $7,500,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $7,500,000)''.
Amendment No. 179 Offered by Mrs. Wagner of Missouri
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $6,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $6,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 193 Offered by Mr. Yakym of Indiana
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $90,000,000)''.
Page 27, line 7, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $90,000,000)''.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 1316, the gentleman
from California (Mr. Calvert) and the gentlewoman from Minnesota (Ms.
McCollum) each will control 10 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, these are noncontroversial bipartisan
amendments supported by both sides. I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, once again, I support this amendment. It
contains a series of bipartisan amendments that are supported by
Members on both sides. I have no objection. I encourage adoption of the
amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentleman from Pennsylvania
(Mr. Thompson), the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman for his
leadership with this bill.
Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of this en bloc, which includes an
amendment that I was proud to introduce.
Amendment No. 168 will restore funding for the APEX Accelerator
program to the fiscal year `24 enacted level.
APEX accelerators provide individualized, no-cost assistance and
training for businesses to identify and compete for defense and other
government contracts. With 97 APEX accelerators across all 50 States,
this program serves as the access for existing and new businesses to
strengthen the defense industrial base by accelerating innovation,
fostering ingenuity, and bolstering supply chains.
The success of the APEX Accelerator program speaks for itself. In
2023 alone, APEX accelerators counseled more than 62,000 businesses
that received more than $28 billion in contracts.
Our Nation faces unprecedented national security challenges. We must
continue to invest in our small businesses to spur innovation,
strengthen a resilient supply chain, and diversify our industrial base.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support this en bloc.
{time}  1400
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentleman from New York (Mr.
Langworthy).
Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman from California (Mr.
Calvert) for yielding.
Mr. Chair, I rise today to support my amendment to provide the Navy's
Science and Technology for Nuclear Re-entry Systems with $5 million for
the next-generation control system, ensuring that it is budget neutral.
In an era when our adversaries are ramping up their nuclear
capabilities, we face growing threats that demand a swift and decisive
response. The strategic community is clamoring for upgrades to our
aging weapons delivery systems, and the development of this next-
generation control system is vital.
This technology will minimize delays and enable precise vehicle
control at hypersonic speeds. We are in a new Cold War with China, and
complacency is not an option. My amendment will ensure America leads in
innovation, maintaining our military's unparalleled superiority.
I also support Representative Trahan's amendment No. 173. Our brave
men and women in uniform currently face a dangerous technology gap in
close-quarters reconnaissance and intelligence during combat and rescue
missions. The Army Special Operations Command is addressing this with
tactical throwable cameras, providing real-time, lifesaving situational
awareness. This small tool can make a huge impact, saving countless
lives.
The only hurdle is the funding required for the Army's operational
evaluation, a critical step toward procurement. We owe it to our troops
to provide them with the best tools to succeed on the battlefield, and
this technology is crucial for their success.
Mr. Chair, these amendments are not just about technology or budget
lines. They are about safeguarding our Nation and ensuring that our
troops have what they need to protect and serve.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support these amendments en bloc
today for the security and future of our country.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chairman, I urge the adoption of the package, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered
by the gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert).
The en bloc amendments were agreed to.
Amendments En Bloc No. 4 Offered by Mr. Calvert of California
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, pursuant to House Resolution 1316, I offer
amendments en bloc.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
Amendments en bloc No. 4 consisting of amendment Nos. 9, 11, 13, 19,
20, 32, 33, 36, 38, 39, 40, 46, 50, 52, 53, 55, 61, 62, 64, 66, 68, 73,
79, 87, 92, 94, 103, 105, 107, 108, 109, 111, 121, 136, 165, 170, 176,
181, 191, and 192, printed in part A of House Report 118-559, offered
by Mr. Calvert of California:
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MR. BANKS OF INDIANA
Page 8, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $11,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 11 OFFERED BY MR. BANKS OF INDIANA
Page 27, line 7, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $2,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $2,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 13 OFFERED BY MR. BERGMAN OF MICHIGAN
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $7,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $7,000,000)''.
[[Page H4380]]
AMENDMENT NO. 19 OFFERED BY MR. BUCHANAN OF FLORIDA
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $3,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $3,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 20 OFFERED BY MRS. CAMMACK OF FLORIDA
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $8,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $8,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 32 OFFERED BY MR. COSTA OF CALIFORNIA
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 33 OFFERED BY MR. CURTIS OF UTAH
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 36 OFFERED BY MR. DUNN OF FLORIDA
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 38 OFFERED BY MR. DUNN OF FLORIDA
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $10,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 39 OFFERED BY MR. EZELL OF MISSISSIPPI
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 40 OFFERED BY MR. EZELL OF MISSISSIPPI
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 46 OFFERED BY MR. FINSTAD OF MINNESOTA
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 50 Offered by Mr. Fitzgerald of Wisconsin
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 52 Offered by Mr. Fong of California
Page 8, line 15, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $4,000,000)''.
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $4,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 53 Offered by Mr. Garbarino of New York
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 55 Offered by Mr. Graves of Louisiana
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $9,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $9,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 61 Offered by Mr. Himes of Connecticut
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 62 Offered by Mrs. Hinson of Iowa
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $12,500,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $12,500,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 64 OFFERED BY MR. HUDSON OF NORTH CAROLINA
Page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 66 OFFERED BY MR. HUDSON OF NORTH CAROLINA
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 68 OFFERED BY MR. JAMES OF MICHIGAN
Page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $15,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $15,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 73 OFFERED BY MR. JOYCE OF PENNSYLVANIA
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 36, line 10, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 79 OFFERED BY MRS. KIGGANS OF VIRGINIA
Page 8, line 6, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
AMENDMENT NO. 87 OFFERED BY MR. LALOTA OF NEW YORK
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 16, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 92 Offered by MR. Lamborn of Colorado
Page 9, line 13, after the first dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $2,500,000)''.
Page 9, line 19, after the first dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $2,500,000)''.
Amendment no. 94 Offered by Mr. Lamborn of Colorado
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 103 Offered by Mr. Lieu of California
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 8, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no 105 Offered by Mr. Luttrell of Texas
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $9,500,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $9,500,000)''.
Amendment no 107 Offered by Ms. Mace of South Carolina
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $20,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $20,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 108 Offered by Ms. McClellan of Virginia
Page 27, line 7, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 109 Offered by Mr. McCormick of Georgia
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $4,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $4,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 111 Offered by Mr. McCormick of Georgia
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 121 Offered by Mr. Mills of Florida
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 136 Offered by Mr. Nunn of Iowa
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 165 Offered by Ms. Tenney of New York
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $15,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $15,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 170 Offered by Mr. Timmons of South Carolina
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $6,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $6,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 176 Offered by Mr. Turner of Ohio
Page 9, line 4, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 181 Offered by Ms. Wasserman Schultz of Florida
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $10,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $10,000,000)''.
Amendment no. 191 Offered by Mr. Wilson of South Carolina
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $6,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $6,000,000)''
Amendment no. 192 Offered by Mr. Yakym of Indiana
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $8,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $8,000,000)''.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 1316, the gentleman
from California (Mr. Calvert) and the gentlewoman from Minnesota (Ms.
McCollum) each will control 10 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, these are noncontroversial, bipartisan
amendments supported by both sides. I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I support this amendment. It contains, once
again, bipartisan amendments that Members on both sides have agreed to.
I have no objection.
Mr. Chair, we encourage the adoption of this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I have no additional speakers. I urge the
adoption of the package, and I yield back the balance of my time.
[[Page H4381]]
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered
by the gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert).
The en bloc amendments were agreed to.
Amendments En Bloc No. 5 Offered by Mr. Calvert of California
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, pursuant to House Resolution 1316, I offer
amendments en bloc.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendments en bloc.
Amendments en bloc No. 5 consisting of amendment Nos. 8, 15, 47, 63,
84, 85, 96, 113, 115, 116, 126, 127, 128, 130, 147, and 167, printed in
part A of House Report 118-559, offered by Mr. Calvert of California:
Amendment No. 8 Offered by Mr. Banks of Indiana
Page 41, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 15 Offered by Ms. Blunt Rochester of Delaware
Page 40, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 47 Offered by Mr. Finstad of Minnesota
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $3,000,000)''.
Page 40, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $3,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 63 Offered by Mr. Hudson of North Carolina
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $3,000,000) (increased by $3,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 84 Offered by Mrs. Kiggans of Virginia
Page 40, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 85 Offered by Mrs. Kiggans of Virginia
Page 40, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 96 Offered by Mr. Langworthy of New York
Page 41, line 5, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 113 Offered by Mr. McCormick of Georgia
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
Page 39, line 1, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 115 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $8,000,000) (increased by $8,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 116 Offered by Mr. McGovern of Massachusetts
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $9,500,000) (increased by $9,500,000)''.
Amendment No. 126 Offered by Mr. Molinaro of New York
Page 40, line 22, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $4,000,000) (increased by $4,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 127 Offered by Mr. Molinaro of New York
Page 41, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $9,000,000) (increased by $9,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 128 Offered by Mr. Molinaro of New York
Page 41, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 130 Offered by Mr. Moore of Utah
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $9,850,000) (increased by $9,850,000)''.
Amendment No. 147 Offered by Mr. Phillips of Minnesota
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000)''.
Amendment No. 167 Offered by Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania
Page 9, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert ``(reduced
by $5,000,000)''.
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $5,000,000)''.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. Obernolte). Pursuant to House Resolution 1316,
the gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert) and the gentlewoman from
Minnesota (Ms. McCollum) each will control 10 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from California.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, these are noncontroversial, bipartisan
amendments supported by both sides, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I support this amendment. As with all the
others, it contains a series of bipartisan amendments with the support
of Members on both sides of the aisle. I have no objections, and I
encourage the adoption of this amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from New York
(Mr. Langworthy).
Mr. LANGWORTHY. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman from California
(Mr. Calvert) for yielding.
Mr. Chair, I rise today to support my amendment that seeks to bring
much-needed attention to the development and procurement of advanced
medical devices specifically designed for the treatment and prevention
of infections associated with osseointegrated prosthetics.
Osseointegrated prosthetics are cutting-edge technology that involves
directly anchoring a prosthetic limb to the bone, offering improved
mobility and comfort for amputees compared to traditional prosthetics.
Our servicemembers who have sacrificed so much for our Nation deserve
nothing less than the best care that we as a nation can provide them.
This work, however, extends beyond our heroes in uniform. It has the
potential to significantly impact the lives of thousands of Americans
who have lost limbs and are determined to regain their independence and
continue to live full and productive lives.
The challenge of infections in osseointegrated prosthetics is a
serious one, with potential complications that can hinder recovery and
diminish quality of life. By prioritizing the availability of effective
treatments and preventative measures, we can ensure that all Americans,
whether they are veterans or civilians, receive the highest standard of
care. This will not only reduce complications but will also promote
faster recovery and better outcomes overall.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to support the en bloc, which
includes this amendment. By doing so, we stand with our servicemembers,
our veterans, and every American facing the trials of limb loss. We
send a message to those families that their struggles are not
forgotten, and their journey to recovery and well-being is a priority
for this Congress.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chairman, I thank the gentleman for his comments. I
urge adoption of the package, and I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendments en bloc offered
by the gentleman from California (Mr. Calvert).
The en bloc amendments were agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. The Chair understands that amendment No. 25 will
not be offered.
It is now in order to consider amendment No. 29 printed in part A of
House Report 118-559.
Amendment No. 56 Offered by Ms. Greene of Georgia
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 56
printed in part A of House Report 118-559.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the
following:
Sec. __.  The salary of Lloyd Austin, Secretary of Defense,
shall be reduced to $1.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 1316, the gentlewoman
from Georgia (Ms. Greene) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Georgia.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, my amendment uses the Holman rule
to slash Secretary Lloyd Austin's salary to no more than $1.
Lloyd Austin has failed in his role as Secretary of Defense and has
jeopardized the national security of the United States. He botched the
American withdrawal from Afghanistan, which resulted in the deaths of
13 American soldiers, along with the abandonment of American civilians
and military equipment. This remains today as a large stain on our
Nation and a wound in the hearts of every veteran who served in
Afghanistan.
He is, in large part, responsible for handing over control of
Afghanistan to the Islamic extremists, the Taliban.
During Secretary Austin's tenure, military recruitment has reached
historic lows. Instead of recruiting new soldiers, Secretary Austin has
focused
[[Page H4382]]
his efforts on purging the military through oppressive vaccine mandates
and so-called extremism stand-downs.
More than 8,000 troops were kicked out of the military for refusing
the vaccine. Thousands more sought religious and medical exemptions,
many of which were still pending when the DOD rescinded the mandate.
For too long, our soldiers have been punished because the current
administration is hellbent on forcing them to take a dangerous vaccine
and submit to this practice.
We also don't know how many of our military members have been harmed
by these vaccine mandates, and we know they have been harmed.
While the United States is being ravaged by an invasion at our
southern border, Lloyd Austin continues to prefer to write blank checks
for Ukraine. Lloyd Austin's open-ended support of Ukraine has depleted
our defense capabilities and pushed the United States even closer to
world war III.
Secretary Austin has betrayed the American people and lost the
public's trust. The American people should no longer have to reward his
failures by paying his salary.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from California is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chairman, the Secretary of Defense serves at the
pleasure of the President of the United States. He implements the
President's policies.
We have, in many ways, been addressing our serious differences with
the Department and this administration. We have done so on multiple
occasions, and we have done so within this bill.
Mr. Chair, I oppose this amendment, and I yield to the gentlewoman
from Minnesota (Ms. McCollum).
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman of the full committee
for yielding.
Mr. Chair, I am very disappointed by these types of amendments that
have been offered today. Secretary Austin has dedicated his life to the
service of the United States with over 41 years in the Army, rising to
the rank of four-star general. I could go on with his accomplishments.
This is a man who is a patriot for our country, certainly someone who
has not betrayed the American people.
Mr. Chair, I thank the chairman for the time.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chairman, I would argue that the families
of the 13 American soldiers who were killed in the failure of the
withdrawal in Afghanistan do not agree with my colleague's statement.
This Nation is too important, our national security is too important,
and our military members are too important to be under the direction
and the leadership of Lloyd Austin, who failed our entire military and
failed our country in Afghanistan.
Also, our country deserves defense, and our country and our States
are left defenseless when the DOD's main focus is securing borders in
foreign countries, specifically in Ukraine.
It moved me to anger when I heard Lloyd Austin directly tell me that
our cousins, our uncles, and our sons could be sent to fight on the
ground in Ukraine one day. I think that is appalling when 300 Americans
are being killed by fentanyl every single day and when America's young
women are being raped and murdered by illegal aliens. This is becoming
something so frequent in the news that it is shocking and appalling.
This is absolutely not what the DOD is supposed to be for. The DOD
should be defending America and defending our national security. I
think many Americans would agree that Secretary of Defense Lloyd
Austin's salary should be reduced to $1 because that is the exact job
performance that he has given to America and our national security.
Also, it is absolutely embarrassing that young people today do not
want to serve in our military. Having the lowest recruitment numbers in
probably history is appalling. It is embarrassing.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues in this House to pass this
amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Georgia (Ms. Greene).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes
appeared to have it.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Georgia
will be postponed.
{time}  1415
Amendment No. 57 Offered by Ms. Greene of Georgia
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 57
printed in part A of House Report 118-559.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of the bill (before the short title), add the
following:
TITLE IX--ADDITIONAL LIMITATION PROVISION
Sec. __. None of the funds made available by this Act may
be used for assistance to Ukraine.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 1316, the gentlewoman
from Georgia (Ms. Greene) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Georgia.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, my amendment would ensure that no
additional military funding is authorized for the war in Ukraine.
To date, Congress has appropriated $174.2 billion of American's hard-
earned, taxpayer dollars in emergency supplemental funding for Ukraine.
Of this amount, about $116 billion, 67 percent, has been provided
through the U.S. Department of Defense. While our southern border is
invaded by murderers, rapists, and terrorists, the Biden administration
cares more about protecting the borders of Ukraine than the country he
swore to protect and that many people in this body swore to protect.
Now, Ukraine is using American weapons to bomb civilian beaches in
Russian territory.
Ukraine is recruiting an untold number of their own men in Ukraine to
fight in this war that they cannot win. Anyone that says Ukraine can
win is being completely dishonest.
We know how Russia will respond to this aggression because they
already are. Just recently, we saw reports of Russian warships off the
coast of Florida in the Caribbean. How much longer will the United
States provoke Russia before we fall into world war III, or have
American boots on the ground in Ukraine, which the American people do
not support?
As a matter of fact, over half of America thinks that the U.S. is not
only spending too much money to help Ukraine, they disagree with the
war.
In a recent CBS poll, over 60 percent of Republicans do not support
additional aid to Ukraine, and even one in four Democrats don't support
it anymore.
By the way, we are at $34.5 trillion in debt. It is unreal that
anyone in this body who votes to appropriate money can go home to their
folks in their district and say more of your money should be put in
debt to go to defend some country that most of you can't find on a map.
It is truly disturbing to watch Americans' hard-earned, taxpayer
dollars go down the drain because this government, this body, and many
people in Washington think they have to go fight a war or pay for a war
and send weapons to a war in a country that does not touch our borders.
Yet we are completely ignoring the war on our own border, the war on
our own people that is waged on us every single day by the cartels.
I don't understand why we can't come together in this United States
House of Representatives to defend the American people and recognize
who our true enemies are. There are people invading our country from
over 160 countries around the world, including the international crime
organizations that are murdering Americans every single day,
trafficking children, trafficking women, trafficking drugs. That is the
[[Page H4383]]
only thing that we should be talking about, and if we have a Department
of Defense that should be our focus.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Minnesota is recognized for 5
minutes.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I include in the Record a letter dated
November 1, 2023, and it is signed by some distinguished Members of
this body: Roger Wicker, Ranking Member of the Senate Armed Services
Committee; James E. Risch, Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee; Chairman   Mike Rogers, Armed Services Committee;
and Chairman McCaul of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
Congress of the United States,
Washington, DC, November 1, 2023.
President Joseph R. Biden,
The White House,
Washington, D.C.
Dear President Biden: We welcome reports that your
administration has finally provided some limited range Army
Tactical Missile Systems (ATACMS) to Ukraine. We remain
concerned that the transfers of these shorter-range ATACMS
occurred more than a year after Ukraine's public request for
this capability, and we believe it demonstrates that your
administration's reticence toward arming Ukraine continues.
Although this transfer is a positive step, the job on
ATACMS is only half-done: the United States has only provided
a small number of the Anti-Personnel/Anti-Materiel (APAM)
variant of ATACMS and these have a shorter range. We urge you
to provide the unitary warhead variant of ATACMS which has a
substantially longer range than the APAMS. In addition, we
call on you to deliver the balance of U.S. APAMs given the
Department of Defense's repeated inability to articulate a
clear, current requirement for this weapon.
Ukraine's requirement for deep-strike capability remains
urgent, particularly to range targets throughout Crimea.
Recent successful strikes on Russian targets in Crimea,
including on Black Sea Fleet assets, demonstrate the
strategic significance of long-range strike options and the
relevance of the longer range ATACMS. It is a sad reflection
that Ukraine had to rely, in part, on long-range missiles
provided by allies to reach these targets in the face of your
administration's continued self-deterrence. Ukraine must have
the ability to break Russia's logistics network for Ukraine's
offensive operations to truly be successful.
We also regret that the administration has yet to provide
Congress with the definitive status of the ATACMS inventory
and warfighting requirements. We have received at least three
documents from the Pentagon with substantively different
numbers. Given the bipartisan congressional support for
providing long-range ATACMS, we cannot understand the
Department of Defense's inability to articulate ATACMS
requirements.
The bottom line is this: Ukraine has requested long-range
ATACMS. Ukraine has demonstrated the ability to employ long-
range missiles in a responsible and effective manner. Allies
have already provided Ukraine with these capabilities, and
Russia has clearly declined to escalate upon usage of deep-
strike missiles. The United States has an arsenal of long-
range unitary warhead ATACMS, a hot production line to
backfill them, and affordable and executable paths to speed
up delivery of the Precision Strike Missile follow-on
capability. Clearly, it is time for you to finish the job on
ATACMS. The costs of failing to do so not only risks
stalemate on the battlefield and the further protraction of
this war, but also threatens further global instability as
our adversaries conduct influence operations around the
globe.
Sincerely,
Roger F. Wicker,
Ranking Member, Senate Armed Services Committee.
Mike Rogers,
Chairman, House Armed Services Committee.
James E. Risch,
Ranking Member, Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Michael T. McCaul,
Chairman, House Foreign Affairs Committee.
Ms. McCOLLUM. The gentlewoman is certainly entitled to her own
opinion, but the reason why I am entering this letter into the Record
is that there are Members on her side of the aisle that strongly
disagree with her original statement talking about how weapons are
used. I will just read a couple highlights.
It says: ``Dear President Biden, we welcome reports that your
administration has finally provided some limited range Army Tactical
Missile Systems . . .''--the shorter range.
``Although this transfer is a positive step, the job on ATACMS is
only half-done . . . . We urge you to provide the unitary warhead
variant of ATACMS which has a substantially longer range than the
APAMS.'' The ones that they are currently using.
``Ukraine's requirement for deep-strike capability remains urgent,
particularly to range targets throughout Crimea.''
It goes on to say: ``Ukraine has requested long-range ATACMS. Ukraine
has demonstrated the ability to employ long-range missiles in a
responsible and effective manner.''
In other words, they are asking in a letter that they sent that these
ATACMS be given to Ukraine, the full inventory, that they can use to do
the strikes that Ukraine thinks they need to do.
I will point out, Mr. Chair, that even on the other side of the
aisle, the Republican side of the aisle, there is a difference of
opinion from what the gentlewoman stated.
I will point out that the majority has already eliminated funding for
the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative in this bill, something the
chairman and I disagree on in the way that it is done.
We have another amendment that will also prohibit any further support
to Ukraine as they fight an illegal invasion in their country. It is
just morally wrong, in my opinion.
Putin is attempting to rewrite the map of Europe, and he is doing it
through force. He is doing it in violation of international law. He is
deliberately killing civilians. He is attacking hospitals and daycare
centers. They are targeting grocery stores. On top of that, they are
kidnapping Ukrainian children, which is something that I find very
disturbing.
Putin and his thugs are committing war crimes on a mass scale, and
the United States and the democracies around the world must continue to
strongly oppose him.
If we do not, then he and other authoritarian leaders will do
something like this again, either in Ukraine or somewhere else in the
world.
America is not alone in our military support for Ukraine. Our NATO
and European allies have provided close to $50 billion in military
assistance. We are donating tanks, air defense systems, artillery,
vehicles, rockets, and infantry fighting vehicles, and the list does go
on.
Let us not abandon our EU and NATO allies now. Let us not abandon
Ukraine. I know there are those who express concerns about how some of
the munitions are being provided to Ukraine, particularly the cluster
munitions. We have an amendment to consider that deal and how to
specifically work on that.
I understand the difficult position that Ukraine and President
Zelenskyy have been in with respect to shortages of ammunition because
of our failure to get the funding to them on time.
The Ukrainian people, Mr. Chair, did not ask for this war. They did
not ask for their children to be kidnapped. They did not ask for their
economy to be destroyed.
They faced daunting odds against Russian forces. They have taken up
the mantle to defend themselves, their values, and their democratic
principles. I believe they deserve our continued support.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to wholeheartedly oppose this
amendment, and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, may I inquire as to the time
remaining.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Georgia has 1\1/2\ minutes
remaining.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, it is no wonder that Congress has a
13 percent approval rating from the American people because Congress is
an absolute failure to the American people. This Congress has put the
American people $34.5 trillion in debt because of the ridiculous
decisions to make our American military the world police and make our
government the biggest charity in the world just giving away all of
this money and enslaving Americans in debt. It is also a complete lie
to say you support Ukraine while you support funding the continual
murder of Ukrainians in a war Ukraine cannot win.
The Russian population is 144 million. Ukraine's population is 38
million.
[[Page H4384]]
The fact is, Ukraine is going to run out of men that are going to die
on that battlefield, while America beats their chest and talks about
Putin every single day and keeps sending money and keeps sending
weapons and keeps causing these people to die.
We should be pushing for peace in Ukraine. If we are going to defend
America, we should be fighting together, all of us, for our own border
and for our own American people that we swore an oath to defend.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I will be clear: The Russians attacked
Ukraine. Ukraine decided enough is enough. They were going to stand up
for their rights, for their values, for their people. We as democracies
around the world have stood together with Ukraine. It is the right
thing to do.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ``no'' vote on this amendment, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Georgia (Ms. Greene).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes
appeared to have it.
Ms. GREENE of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Georgia
will be postponed.
Amendment No. 58 Offered by Ms. Hageman
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 58
printed in part A of House Report 118-559.
Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the
following:
Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may
be used for classified teleworking or remote working for any
employee of the Department of Defense.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 1316, the gentlewoman
from Wyoming (Ms. Hageman) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Wyoming.
Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise in favor of my amendment, No. 58 to
H.R. 8774, which prohibits classified teleworking and remote working
for DOD employees.
The COVID-19 pandemic is over, and House Republicans in the 118th
Congress prioritized returning the Federal workforce to the office and
cracking down on wasted Federal office space.
To this extent, last year I sponsored an amendment to the fiscal year
'24 DOD appropriations bill blocking routine and regular telework and
remote working, ensuring that DOD personnel who defend the Nation
operating largely in a classified environment are in the office.
I thank Chairman Calvert and the committee as similar language is in
this year's bill, but since last year, new DOD policy may thwart the
return-to-office needs of the government, while also raising serious
national security concerns.
On January 8, 2024, the DOD Office of the Under Secretary of Defense
for Personnel and Readiness updated the Department's telework and
remote work policies for the first time since 2012.
Under this new policy, DOD personnel are qualified for telework and
remote work when: ``The duties of the position do not require more than
occasional handling, discussion, or processing of classified
material.''
In short, if you handle classified information, you still qualify to
work from home.
While this policy permits the handling of information just up to the
collateral secret level, it requires the DOD to provide the employee
with a classified teleworking device, which means more resources and
spending simply to accommodate telework desires in a job not compatible
with that style of work.
This is not the only development as the Space Force has awarded
contracts for the development of a digital environment to integrate
classified and nonclassified work from a remote location as well.
{time}  1430
Reporting on the development of this software already shows that
there is an interest in elevating this technology to top secret and
special access program level.
Mr. Chairman, the development of these technologies and DOD policies
for classified remote and telework are a new concerning trend. They
risk delaying the return of the Federal workforce to the office, as
personnel traditionally exempt from telework and remote work are now
being brought into the system, versus focusing on bringing everyone
back.
It also raises significant national security concerns. Homes, coffee
shops, and other places people choose to remote work from are simply
not as secure as a DOD facility.
I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Minnesota is recognized for 5
minutes.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition to this amendment. I
understand the desire for all of us to return to a pre-COVID sense of
normal work routines, but I want to be very clear. This is a total ban
on telework, and it is excessive.
I work in the classified realm more than I ever thought I would since
becoming a Member of Congress in my assigned duties, especially as
ranking member and former chair of the Defense Committee, and I can
assure you that our staff does not take classified work home and do
telework from home. They don't. People don't do that. This is a total
ban on telework.
I believe there are certain circumstances where telework may be
necessary. Let me give you an example that hits close to home. In 2001,
I had to close my office in Washington because of an anthrax scare.
That was before we had laptops and were well organized.
My staff worked from home, and sometimes we worked at home together.
They were able to get things done for the people that I represent, and
I thank my staff for working under those extraordinary circumstances.
Now we have the technology that will allow people to work from home
when it makes sense to do that. With telework, there isn't a need to
shut down the government for snow days anymore. If power is available,
people work from home. They keep the government going.
Additionally, the Federal Government, including the DOD, is in
competition with the private sector for certain types of workers. Many
private-sector jobs offer telework as an option.
Without being able to have this flexibility, we may find ourselves in
a more difficult position to fill jobs and to provide services to our
constituents.
Telework doesn't make sense for every single employee all the time,
but options should be available to the Department to improve the
quality of life for its workers when it makes sense.
I urge my colleagues to oppose this total ban on telework, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Chair, while I would like to assume that our Federal
employees charged with handling sensitive information will always act
responsibly, we cannot control human nature, and, therefore, we cannot
control where these DOD systems will be opened up in the public.
Further, the DOD facilities themselves protect information from
intrusion such as physical break-ins or cyber threats of bad actors
seeking access to our information. The security simply cannot be
guaranteed in every household of the DOD workforce.
I quote the director of a company developing this technology for the
Space Force. In an article discussing the software and development, the
director stated: You can't just pop your laptop up at Starbucks. Some
of the things within that user agreement would be, you know, you are in
a closed space, there are no windows, there is no one else home, your
cell phone isn't with you, things of that nature.
What is being described here is a SCIF, something that DOD personnel
only have access to at work and not at home. Outside the office, even
equipped with new technologies, there is too much unpredictability for
the handling of classified information, and these
[[Page H4385]]
policies should not be allowed to go forward.
I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I will make another statement, and then I
will yield back my time.
Let's be really clear here. This is a total ban on working from home.
Now, I will state it again. I work in the classified area. The chairman
and I work with people in the Intelligence Committee. I can guarantee
you even in our committee when things are passed out to Members, do we
not collect them back, Mr. Chair? People are not taking classified work
home to telework.
If they are taking anything out of this Chamber, out of this
building, or out of any of the departments where it is secure and
should not leave, they should be prosecuted to the full extent because
they are breaking the law.
This is a total ban on telework. We shouldn't support this amendment.
We should work really hard to make sure that when telework is
available, it makes sense, it delivers things for our constituents, and
it makes our government run more efficiently.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. HAGEMAN. Mr. Chair, I believe that my colleague is
misunderstanding the policy that is being proposed by the Department of
Defense. This doesn't relate to people on committee work. This has to
do with the policy that was proposed by the DOD office on January 8,
2024, that would allow DOD personnel to occasionally handle, discuss,
or process classified material in an at-home or away-from-work setting.
The purpose of the amendment is to prohibit that. The idea that this
is a total ban on telework for Members and staff of Congress, that has
absolutely nothing to do with this. This is directly related to the DOD
Office of Under Secretary's personnel and readiness policies that were
updated earlier this year.
There is clearly a misunderstanding by my colleagues on the other
side as to what the purpose of this amendment is.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Wyoming (Ms. Hageman).
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. The Chair understands that amendment No. 71 will
not be offered.
Amendment No. 72 Offered by Ms. Jayapal
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 72
printed in part A of House Report 118-559.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of the bill (before the short title) insert the
following:
Sec. __.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made
available by this Act may be used to carry out section 222a
or 222b of title 10, United States Code.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 1316, the gentlewoman
from Washington (Ms. Jayapal) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Washington.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chair, my bipartisan amendment would prevent funding
from this bill to be used to require the Defense Department to create
what is called an unfunded priorities list.
This list that DOD is required to send to Congress is simply a wish
list of things that individual commanders and generals would like to
fund. It has not gone through the level of prioritization and vetting
that all of the other things that come in the budget do.
In preparing the White House budget request, the Commander in Chief,
in consultation with top military brass, determines what is necessary
to defend the country based on a holistic analysis of our national
security needs. By definition, anything that is in an unfunded
priorities list has already been determined to be extraneous by the
President, the Secretary of Defense, and the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
This practice, that wasn't even mandatory until the passage of the
FY17 NDAA, does not serve the national security interests of the United
States or the interests of our taxpayers.
These wish lists are packed with billions of dollars of excessive
line items, this year totaling more than $27.5 billion on top of the
$850 billion requested by the White House and a 50 percent increase
from last year.
I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this bipartisan and
commonsense amendment, and I thank my Republican colleagues,
Congressmen McClintock and Davidson, as well as Congressman Garamendi
who have joined me to rein in this wasteful spending that has no
benefit to our national security.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from California is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, unfunded priority lists are an important tool
to provide Congress with unfiltered information on what our military
services and combatant commanders need. This has been the law of the
land since FY 2017.
Unfunded priority lists give military services and the combatant
commanders a direct channel to Congress, which allows Congress to make
more informed decisions.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ``no'' vote, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman from
Minnesota (Ms. McCollum), my distinguished colleague and the ranking
member.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I thank the gentlewoman for the time.
Mr. Chair, I rise in support of my colleague's amendment. We should
all be supporting funding for national security, but should any
department or agency really get an opportunity to request additional
funding that is outside of the President's request by any
administration's request?
Either all agencies should have the authority to do it, or none of
them should. This should not be unique to the Armed Forces and the
combatant commanders if it is such a good idea.
The service chiefs appear before the committee each year to discuss
how their budgets meet the needs included in the national defense
strategy. Most of the combatant commanders also testify annually before
the committee.
Congress is able to assess with stringent oversight what we believe
the country needs for its national security.
Therefore, I ask my colleagues to support this amendment. If this
really is such a fabulous idea that we have these unfunded opportunity
lists, then we should do it for the EPA. We should do it for the
National Park Service. I could think of a lot of things that the
American public would like to know about, if this is such a good idea,
that aren't able to be funded in the current time in the President's
budget.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chair, I understand that it is critical for Congress
to engage with the Pentagon to accurately meet our country's national
security needs, but we don't have to spend billions of dollars on wish
lists and what-ifs to accomplish that.
I say that the ranking member is absolutely right. If this is such a
great idea for this agency, let's do it for all the agencies. If it is
not a great idea for all the agencies, we shouldn't be doing it for the
Department of Defense.
Let's be clear. If military leaders want more funding for their wish
list, there is nothing in this amendment that would prevent DOD from
supplying an unfunded priorities list to Congress, but this process
should be optional, just as it was 8 years ago.
On top of that, most combatant commanders already testify before
Congress ahead of the appropriations process so Congress can understand
their needs without these wish lists that undercut the President's
budget request.
By law, individual generals and commanders are required to go around
the Commander in Chief and military leadership to Congress to ask for
superfluous line items that serve mainly to line the pockets of defense
contractors. This is corruption, plain and simple.
These lists get in the way of our military's stated priorities. For
example, the House passed NDAA authorized funding for some of the
Army's unfunded priorities while making substantial cuts to the
requested amounts for the Army's three largest accounts.
[[Page H4386]]
This is despite Army Chief of Staff General Randy George specifically
requesting that none of the Army's unfunded priorities displace
anything on the Army's FY25 budget request.
I urge my colleagues to vote ``yes'' on this sensible, bipartisan
amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Washington (Ms. Jayapal).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the noes
appeared to have it.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from Washington
will be postponed.
Amendment No. 129 Offered by Mr. Moore of Alabama
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 129
printed in part A of House Report 118-559.
Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
Page 38, line 9, after the dollar amount, insert
``(increased by $4,910,000)''.
Page 39, line 19, after the dollar amount, insert
``(reduced by $4,910,000)''.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 1316, the gentleman
from Alabama (Mr. Moore) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Alabama.
Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support of amendment No. 129 that would
cut $4.91 million from the DOD climate change research and reallocate
that funding for the enhancements to the Army's unmanned ground
vehicles, or UGVs.
I start by thanking my friend and colleague from Alabama,
Representative Strong, for cosponsoring this important amendment.
Mr. Chairman, we should not be focusing on climate change research at
the Department of Defense. Instead, we should be preparing for the next
conflict and assure that our military is lethal and ready for combat.
According to the Presidential budget item justification for this
project submitted by the Office of the Secretary of Defense, they claim
that climate change will impact the full range of U.S. military
operating environments. That is complete hogwash. Do we really think
China cares about climate change that impacts their operations based on
environment? Absolutely not.
To better protect American servicemembers from enemy fire, we should
upgrade unmanned systems that operate in enemy environments. UGVs have
already demonstrated their transformative potential on the battlefield.
They can perform a wide range of tasks from reconnaissance to
surveillance to logistics to explosive ordnance disposal without
putting human lives at risk.
By increasing our investment in these technologies, we can
significantly reduce the casualties and injuries among our troops,
ensuring that fewer families will have to face the heartache of loved
ones being harmed in the line of duty.
{time}  1445
Moreover, enhancing our UGV capabilities will give us a strategic
edge over our adversaries. As geopolitical tensions rise and threats
become more and more sophisticated, having a fleet of advanced UGVs
will enable our forces to respond swiftly and effectively to any
threat. These vehicles can operate in environments that are too
dangerous and inaccessible for humans, providing critical support in
situations where conventional vehicles or personnel could be
compromised.
This amendment aligns DOD dollars toward closing the most urgent
warfighting gaps rather than funding climate research that does nothing
to enhance national defense.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman from Hawaii is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, first of all, let's take a look at the actual
language of the amendment. I have heard the arguments from my colleague
about what this amendment does, but when you take a look at the actual
language of the amendment, what you discover is uncertainty all over
the place.
Let's start with the stated goal of cutting climate research from the
Defense-wide research and development budget. Well, this doesn't
specify that in the amendment itself. It talks about Defense-wide
research and development budget, so I guess that means all Defense
research and development that in any way, shape, or form may be linked
in some way, shape, or form to evaluating the effects of the climate on
defense research and development, so we don't really know what this
amendment is doing in that department. That is number one.
Similarly, we have no idea what the increase in the Army's budget for
unmanned ground vehicles is really all about. It is just a general
increase. On a very basic level, the amendment just fails for lack of
certainty and direction to the Defense Department.
However, let's be clear about what this amendment is actually all
about. I take for granted that the gentleman, in fact, wants to
increase funding for unmanned ground vehicles, but it is at the expense
of further climate-related activities within the Department of Defense.
We, of course, had this discussion in the Appropriations Committee.
This is a longstanding discussion. Already, this bill fails because it
cuts $621 million out of the Defense budget in climate change programs
that were in the President's budget.
This bill was screened, scrubbed, and word searched for anything that
said ``climate change,'' and what was yielded was any program that said
``climate change.'' I suspect that they found some more somewhere that
just had the word ``climate'' in them at this point, and that is where
this $4.9 million, in fact, comes from.
We have had the discussion on the merits. This is contrary to what
our own military believes is necessary, and I quote again from the
Department of Defense's own climate risk analysis, focusing on the
Indo-Pacific in this case, where we certainly have these issues: ``In
the Indo-Pacific, sea level rise and more extreme weather events
complicate the security environment, place key DOD warfighting
infrastructure and surrounding communities at risk, and challenge local
capacity to respond.''
This is our military talking. This is why our military opposes the
reduction of $621 million to start with, much less to conduct any
research.
My colleagues need look no further than our activities in the
Department of Defense in the Indo-Pacific, in Korea, Okinawa, Japan,
Guam, and Palau just to start with, where we are investing billions and
billions of dollars.
Shall we not ask what the impact of climate change is on those
installations, in those activities? By the way, shall we not provide
for resilience, which is basically trying to determine what the actual
hardening of those facilities or their activities is? Instead, let's
just wipe out research altogether because that is the target here, of
course, the research.
This is not the right approach from the perspective of a reasoned
military overall. This is not the right approach from the perspective
of certainty in terms of what we are designating. This amendment should
not be adopted.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, I yield to the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. Strong).
Mr. STRONG. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of this amendment and in
support of the Army's continued investment in unmanned ground vehicle
technology.
It is an Army priority to provide commanders on the ground with
enhanced situational awareness and increased flexibility on the modern
battlefield. This plus-up would take a step in the right direction to
fill existing command and control capability gaps that would hinder our
warfighter on the front lines.
I have been proud to support the provisions in this NDAA and Defense
appropriations bills the past two cycles,
[[Page H4387]]
not only because of the work done in Huntsville, Alabama, but because
this is addressing a critical national security need.
This is why I am here, to do what is best for national security.
Mr. Chair, I encourage my colleagues to support this amendment.
Mr. MOORE of Alabama. Mr. Chairman, I yield myself the balance of my
time to close.
Increasing funds for Army UGVs is not just a matter of military
necessity. It is an investment in safety, security, and the future of
our Nation. Let us act decisively to equip our forces with the tools
they need to protect and serve.
I urge the adoption of my amendment, Mr. Chairman, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, I yield myself the balance of my time to close.
I appreciate my colleagues being focused on the unmanned ground
vehicle program, and obviously, that is where they are focused. I would
simply make the observation that we can have that debate as a matter of
priorities, as to whether we invest in the unmanned ground vehicle
program, but we should do it with certainty, with direction. We should
not do it at the further expense of any research and development
related to the impacts of climate on military readiness and warfighting
capabilities.
Mr. Chair, I urge Members to oppose this amendment, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. Moore).
The question was taken; and the Acting Chair announced that the ayes
appeared to have it.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to clause 6 of rule XVIII, further
proceedings on the amendment offered by the gentleman from Alabama will
be postponed.
The Chair understands that amendment No. 133 will not be offered.
Amendment No. 139 Offered by Mr. Ogles
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 139
printed in part A of House Report 118-559.
Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the
following:
Sec. __.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made
available by this Act may be made available to remove a
Chinese military company from the list required by section
1260H of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2021.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 1316, the gentleman
from Tennessee (Mr. Ogles) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Tennessee.
Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chairman, the section 1260H was established by the
fiscal year 2021 NDAA to blacklist Chinese companies with close ties to
the People's Liberation Army as well as other companies, so-called
civil-military fusion contributors. The FY 2023 NDAA went even further,
applying sanctions for those entities on the list.
Section 1260H addition certainly hurts a company's shareholder value,
which is the point. It protects American investors from unwittingly
supporting companies underwriting China's military modernization and/or
genocide.
This amendment simply ensures that for the coming fiscal year, the
Biden administration cannot remove any CCP company designated for the
Department of Defense section 1260H list.
I understand there is similar language in the underlying bill, but
the language has a waiver so broad you could drive a Chinese tank
through it. I am therefore offering it as a stand-alone to continue to
push for full funding prohibition.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Minnesota is recognized for 5
minutes.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposition.
As was pointed out, section 1260H of the FY21 NDAA requires the
Secretary of Defense to maintain a list of Chinese military companies
that are operating directly or indirectly in the United States and
publicly report such a list. This list is required to be submitted
annually until December 31, 2030. We have oversight over that, and we
should exercise our oversight.
The NDAA gave the Secretary the authority to make additions and
deletions to the list in subsection (b)(3). The FY25 bill already
includes this provision, consistent with current law, so this has been
the law since FY 2021, when the NDAA required the Secretary of Defense
to maintain these lists.
The amendment would remove the Secretary's ability to modify the
list, and it is an expansion of current law. If the Secretary were to
modify the list, Congress would know about it, and Congress could do
its oversight and due diligence if they thought there was something out
of order.
Given that the bill already includes this language, and the amendment
would remove the authority of the Secretary to make the necessary
judgments, I oppose this amendment. This amendment, and the gentleman
can correct me if I am wrong, would suppose that the Secretary would
disregard the law flagrantly and not fulfill their obligation, and I
believe the Secretary will, whether it is a Republican Secretary of
Defense or Democratic Secretary of Defense, fulfill the law and do
their work correctly. Congress sees the report, and if Congress thinks
there is something amiss, we do our oversight.
Mr. Chair, I oppose the amendment, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chair, this amendment is necessitated by the fact
that, at every opportunity, our President has chosen to placate rather
than punish China. Appeasement has long been a failed strategy, and it
continues to fail us today.
Last year, Joe Biden unilaterally removed 27 CCP entities from
Commerce's unverified list, all to ensure that Gina Raimondo could
simply secure a meeting with her CCP counterpart.
Similarly, in November, Joe Biden removed an agency of China's
police, an agency which uses DNA to collect genetic information on
Uyghur detainees from Commerce's entity list. Joe Biden made this
decision on a mere commitment from China that they would cooperate with
us on confronting drug trafficking.
I can tell my colleagues that the drug overdoses in my State and your
States last night would conflict with this idea that China is
cooperating with us, that they are doing anything to stem the flow of
precursor chemicals for fentanyl into this country, so this amendment
is quite necessary.
The gentlewoman is right that it amends the law. It removes the
Secretary's ability to do so, and it puts Joe Biden in a box, where
hopefully he can't get lost.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I am in opposition. I have the right to
close, do I not, Mr. Chair?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman is correct.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chairman, increased scrutiny of these companies is a
national security imperative, and delisting these companies, these
Chinese military companies, cooperators in genocide, and proponents of
the PLA's military modernization, must be an absolute nonstarter. We
have to put America first, whether that is at our border, whether that
is in commerce, and most certainly for our military.
We have to take a stand and put Biden in his place and not let him
delist these companies for political or monetary gain.
Mr. Chairman, I urge adoption of my amendment, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, the gentleman who is offering the amendment
is entitled to his opinions, but I do believe when we are talking about
the President of the United States on the House floor, are we not
supposed to refer to Mr. Biden as the President?
I see the Parliamentarian is here discussing this. I won't ask for
any more time to have you answer the question because they would give
you the advice on that. There have been times, Mr.
[[Page H4388]]
Chair, when I have been in your position when things were happening,
pretense before about conversations, and it was my understanding, but I
will move forward.
The gentleman, as I said, is entitled to his own opinion, and his
opinion is that he does not trust the President of the United States,
and he does not trust the Secretary of Defense. I do. I believe that
they will carry forward and uphold the law.
The gentleman did point out something about these precursor drugs
that I think the gentleman, the Chair, and I agree with, and that is
China needs to crack down on them more. That means we need to crack
down on China, but as soon as we list one of these chemical
combinations, they come up with another one, so I have been urging,
along with other people in the White House, to figure out how we write
this in a way that we can make sure that we capture all these chemicals
that are used to murder Americans.
{time}  1500
The last thing I would say on that, we just did the border security
bill, the Homeland Security bill, and some of the technology provisions
that would have allowed us to capture a lot of this at the border
unfortunately were cut by the Republicans' bill that they put forward.
There is work to do. I agree. I do trust the Secretary of Defense,
and I do trust the President of the United States to uphold the law of
the land.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Ogles).
The amendment was agreed to.
Amendment No. 140 Offered by Mr. Ogles
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order to consider amendment No. 140
printed in part B of House Report 118-559.
Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chair, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as follows:
At the end of the bill (before the short title), insert the
following:
Sec. __.  None of the funds made available by this Act may
be made available to enforce subsection (b) of section 1259
of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2019.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to House Resolution 1316, the gentleman
from Tennessee (Mr. Ogles) and a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman from Tennessee.
Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chair, this is an important issue. We are going to
talk about RIMPAC for a moment. It has direct impact on Taiwan and also
the United States of America, our beloved country.
RIMPAC, Rim of the Pacific, is the world's largest international
maritime warfare exercise, involving coordination of dozens of
countries. The 2024 RIMPAC exercise will showcase the participation of
nearly 30 countries, 40 surface ships, 3 submarines, 14 national land
forces, over 150 aircraft, and more than 25,000 personnel.
RIMPAC promotes a free and open Indo-Pacific, which itself promotes
fairly commonsense priorities, including that all nations, big and
small, have the right to freedom of the seas and the right to pursue
economic growth consistent with international law and the principles of
fair competition.
This vital naval exercise deepens interoperability and resiliency
with our allies and partners. It serves as a bulwark against malign
major powers. It pursues deterrence for the sake of peace and
stability.
Genocidal nations, like the People's Republic of China, have no
business going anywhere near the RIMPAC exercises.
This amendment would defund enforcement subsection (b) of section
1259 of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2019. That subsection is a waiver that, if utilized, would
effectively allow the People's Republic of China to participate
alongside the United States Navy in the RIMPAC exercises, no questions
asked.
Consider just how peculiar it is that the Chinese Communist Party,
our adversary, can be eligible to participate in this naval exercise.
It is all because of a waiver Congress wrote several years ago.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I claim the time in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman from Minnesota is recognized for 5
minutes.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, the reason why I claim the time in
opposition to this amendment is because it is completely unnecessary.
Of course, China does not participate in the Rim of the Pacific, or
RIMPAC, as it was referred to.
RIMPAC is a tool that we use to build alliances with our allies. It
is an opportunity to deter China's activities. Why would the Department
of Defense invite them in? They are not going to.
This is another attempt by the majority to load up this bill with
unnecessary provisions and will only delay us moving forward in
conference negotiations with the Senate.
If you have a problem with the way the authorizers wrote the bill, I
suggest you go to the authorizing committee, Mr. Chair. This is the
Appropriations Committee. I know full well that the Department of
Defense is not going to be inviting China to join us in RIMPAC.
This is unnecessary. Provisions like this just make the process take
longer. It is wasting time and money. I think the gentleman is entitled
to his opinions, and his opinion, once again, is he does not trust the
President of the United States or the Secretary of Defense to make
decisions that are not only lawful but are in the best interests of
this country.
I oppose the amendment, and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chair, keep in mind that China is a country that
steals hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of U.S. intellectual
property every year. They commit espionage against the United States on
an unparalleled scale every year. They are doing the bare minimum to
prevent fentanyl precursors from flooding into Mexico en route to the
southern border. They are directly supporting every single designated
state sponsor of terrorism on the State Department's list: Cuba, Syria,
North Korea, and Iran.
Even considering all of this, Beijing is not fully excluded from
participating in RIMPAC. For robust democratic allies like Taiwan,
however, participation currently is impossible.
The existence of the waiver undermines the precondition on China's
participation in RIMPAC. Currently, the Secretary of Defense must
certify to the congressional defense committees that China has stopped
all land reclamation activities in the South China Sea, removed all
weapons from land reclamation sites, and established a consistent 4-
year track record of taking actions toward stabilizing the region. If
they do all those things, China could be invited to RIMPAC.
It is important that we send a message to our adversary that they are
a bad actor, it is time for them to behave and to understand that
countries in their region, like Taiwan, have a right to participate in
the free market, to be free and democratic, and not to be under their
thumb.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I have the right to close, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. OGLES. Mr. Chair, in the fiscal year 2021 NDAA, Congress included
a fourth precondition stopping the ongoing genocide against the
Uyghurs. We have already seen President Biden placate China in more
ways than one, in addition to the unilateral delisting of dozens of
entities from Commerce's unverified list.
Mr. Chair, we are the leader of the free world. Who else is going to
hold China accountable?
Who else is going to send a message that enough is enough?
They are a bad actor on the global stage. They undermine us at every
turn.
Yes, this is an amendment. Yes, it may take a moment to work through
it. Yes, that may require more time, but this is the people's House. We
do the work, we take the time, and we get it right.
Mr. Chair, I urge adoption of my amendment, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
[[Page H4389]]
Ms. McCOLLUM. Mr. Chair, I appreciate the gentleman's passion on
this, but this is an appropriations bill. An authorizing bill is the
appropriate place to do it.
I would be happy to look at working with Mr. Ogles on the authorizing
bill to take care of the issues that you care about, but I right now
oppose it on this bill.
Mr. Chair, before I close, we had a previous amendment that the
gentlewoman from Georgia had in which she made statements about
Secretary of Defense Austin.
I follow the advice of a very wise President of the United States. I
kind of trusted my memory, but I decided to verify.
I will, for the record, state that Secretary Austin did not make any
statement in any way, shape, or form that U.S. men and women would be
fighting in Ukraine. He did say--and I did hear him say this in some of
the earlier briefings--that if we don't stop the Russian aggression in
Ukraine, it will spread into NATO and it could result in the United
States and NATO sons and daughters fighting--``could,'' and that is if
Russia spread beyond Ukraine.
Mr. Chair, I want my colleagues to know how strongly I oppose this
amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. Ogles).
The amendment was agreed to.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chair, I move that the Committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose; and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
Ogles) having assumed the chair, Mr. Obernolte, Acting Chair of the
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union, reported that
that Committee, having had under consideration the bill (H.R. 8774)
making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2025, and for other purposes, had come to no
resolution thereon.
____________________