[Congressional Record Volume 166, Number 45 (Monday, March 9, 2020)]
[House]
[Pages H1541-H1542]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [
www.gpo.gov
]
ADDING IRELAND TO E-3 NONIMMIGRANT VISA PROGRAM
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2877) to add Ireland to the E-3 nonimmigrant visa program.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2877
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. E-3 VISAS FOR IRISH NATIONALS.
(a) In General.--Section 101(a)(15)(E)(iii) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(15)(E)(iii)) is amended by inserting ``or, on a basis
of reciprocity as determined by the Secretary of State, a
national of Ireland,'' after ``Australia''.
(b) Employer Requirements.--Section 212 of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182) is amended--
(1) by redesignating the second subsection (t) (as added by
section 1(b)(2)(B) of Public Law 108-449 (118 Stat. 3470)) as
subsection (u); and
(2) by adding at the end of subsection (t)(1) (as added by
section 402(b)(2) of Public Law 108-77 (117 Stat. 941)) the
following:
``(E) In the case of an attestation filed with respect to a
national of Ireland described in section 101(a)(15)(E)(iii),
the employer is, and will remain during the period of
authorized employment of such Irish national, a participant
in good standing in the E-Verify program described in section
403(a) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1324a note).''.
(c) Application Allocation.--Paragraph (11) of section
214(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1184(g)(11)) is amended to read as follows:
``(11)(A) The Secretary of State may approve initial
applications submitted for aliens described in section
101(a)(15)(E)(iii) only as follows:
``(i) For applicants who are nationals of the Commonwealth
of Australia, not more than 10,500 for a fiscal year.
``(ii) For applicants who are nationals of Ireland, not
more than a number equal to the difference between 10,500 and
the number of applications approved in the prior fiscal year
for aliens who are nationals of the Commonwealth of
Australia.
``(B) The approval of an application described under
subparagraph (A)(ii) shall be deemed for numerical control
purposes to have occurred on September 30 of the prior fiscal
year.
``(C) The numerical limitation under subparagraph (A) shall
only apply to principal aliens and not to the spouses or
children of such aliens.''.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursuant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Pennsylvania (Ms. Scanlon) and the gentleman from North Dakota (Mr.
Armstrong) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania.
General Leave
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and extend their remarks and include
extraneous material on the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there objection to the request of the
gentlewoman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2877, a bill to add Ireland to
the E-3 nonimmigrant visa program.
In 2005, soon after the United States and Australia finalized the
Australia-U.S. Free Trade Agreement, Congress created the E-3 visa
program. That program provides up to 10,500 temporary visas for
Australian nationals who are pre-approved by U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services to work in a specialty occupation for a sponsoring
United States employer.
A specialty occupation is one that requires the theoretical and
practical application of a body of highly specialized knowledge in
fields such as science, engineering, and research and development in
emerging technologies. Since the program's inception, Australia has
only ever used a fraction of the 10,500 E-3 visas that are available
each year. For example, in fiscal year 2019, only 5,800 E-3 visas were
issued to Australian nationals.
H.R. 2877 does not increase the number of visas that may be issued,
but instead allows Irish nationals to use any unused visas. That bill
would take the number of E-3 visas that are left unused by Australia in
a given fiscal year and make that same number of visas available to
Irish nationals the following fiscal year.
This is a commonsense bill that recognizes the important bond we
share with two of our country's closest and most steadfast allies. This
bill is not controversial, and, in fact, passed the House by voice vote
in 2018 when my Republican colleagues held the majority in this
Chamber.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate my friend, Mr. Neal, chairman of the
Committee on Ways and Means, for continuing to champion this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to support H.R. 2877, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 2877, a bill to add
Ireland to the E-3 nonimmigrant visa program.
As we approach St. Patrick's Day, this bill recognizes the unique
friendship and working relationship between the United States and
Ireland.
H.R. 2877 allows nationals of Ireland to be eligible to apply for
unused E-3 nonimmigrant visas subject to Ireland providing reciprocal
access to U.S. nationals. Holders of the E-3 temporary work visa must
be working in a specialty occupation while in the United States.
A specialty occupation is one that is defined in the Immigration and
Nationality Act as requiring:
One, ``theoretical and practical application of a body of highly
specialized knowledge; and
Two, ``attainment of a bachelor's or higher degree in the specific
specialty, or its equivalent, as a minimum for entry into the
occupation in the United States.''
The E-3 applicant must have a job offer from an employer in the
United States, and that employer must get a foreign labor certification
from the U.S. Department of Labor prior to filing a petition with U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services.
H.R. 2877 also requires that employers using Irish E-3 visa holders
in their workforce are, and will remain, participants in good standing
in the E-Verify program. This means that such employers must use E-
Verify to ensure those that they employ are eligible to work in the
United States.
E-3 nonimmigrant visas are currently only available to nationals of
Australia and are capped at 10,500 per year.
[[Page H1542]]
Australian nationals have never used all of the 10,500 authorized
visas in a given year, nor have they even come close to doing so. In
fact, the highest number used was during the last fiscal year when
5,807 were issued.
H.R. 2877 provides that nationals of Ireland can utilize the visas
not used by Australians in a given calendar year. For operational
purposes, the visa can be issued for the following year but will be
counted against the previous year's cap. So the bill does not increase
the number of visas authorized and allows Australia, for whose
nationals the program was originally created, to have first access to
those numbers.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2877 is a simple bill that reflects the continued
friendship between Ireland and the United States. I urge my colleagues
to support the bill, and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. Neal).
Mr. NEAL. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for yielding me the
time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 2877, to make Irish
nationals eligible for temporary admission to the United States through
the existing E-3 visa program.
And I thank the gentleman from North Dakota for his offering today
and his support. I worked last year with Chairman Sensenbrenner on this
as well.
Mr. Speaker, this legislation has broad support, and last session it
passed the Congress unanimously.
Created in 2005 as a result of the U.S.-Australian Trade Agreement--
which I voted for, supported, and spoke in support of--the agreement
said, essentially, that the E-3 visa program, as constructed, would
make 10,500 visas annually available to skilled Australian nationals
for temporary work.
This program has been a successful pathway for qualified Australian
citizens to gain valuable professional experience in the United States.
However, our Australian friends have only used roughly half of the
available visas during the past decade.
E-3 visas are limited to professionals visiting the United States to
perform services in specialty occupations in a confirmed job from a
United States employer.
E-3 visa applicants also must have a university degree, or its
equivalent, as a minimum for entry into the United States. The E-3 visa
allows the holder to stay in America for 2 years with the option to
renew.
This legislation--and I want to make sure that we emphasize this--
this legislation does not change the requirements of the current E-3
visa program recipients or increase the number of visas made available.
In broad strokes, my bill will simply enable qualified Irish workers to
annually access unused Australian E-3 visas from the previous fiscal
year. Once passed, the Irish Government has pledged to adopt a
reciprocal arrangement that would allow Americans to work in Ireland
under the same guidelines.
The E-3 visas, combined with these reciprocal arrangements, would
provide a welcome and long overdue movement of citizens between Ireland
and the United States in both directions, which is so important to
Irish America, the United States, and, indeed, Ireland.
As many of you in this Chamber already know, legal migration between
the United States and Ireland has been extremely limited now for many,
many years.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I note the support that we have across the
United States and unanimously in the Congress. It has the backing of
both the White House and the Irish Government, whose prime minister,
Leo Varadkar, the Taoiseach, will be welcomed to the Capitol on
Thursday for the annual St. Patrick's Day luncheon.
In my opinion, this bill is a win-win opportunity for the United
States and for Ireland, and for the citizens of both countries who will
benefit from this very innovative and beneficial exchange program.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the Committee on the Judiciary chairman, Jerry
Nadler, and Judiciary's Subcommittee on Immigration and Citizenship
chairwoman, Zoe Lofgren, for swiftly moving this legislation to the
floor. And I do take special note of Jim Sensenbrenner's contribution
for helping us get to this moment.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 2877.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, the bill is pretty simple. The opening is the closing.
This is one of those times where I think common sense prevails. We are
not increasing visas. We are continuing a strong relationship between
Ireland and the United States.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, once again, I would urge my colleagues to support this
bill, and I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The question is on the motion offered by the
gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms. Scanlon) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2877.
The question was taken; and (two-thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on the table.
____________________